ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues, I invite you to come to the large debate hall of the National Assembly. I'll be there soon. All those who are already in the hall, please insert the cards into the voting apparatus so that we will have close control of the presence. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to put their cards in the voting machines. Colleagues and colleagues, it is four minutes before the 14th hour, I would like to begin the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I called it on the basis of Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Some colleagues were absent: colleague Kebrich, Malovre, onion, Pece, Battelli and colleague Peterle, all others were to attend the meeting. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Press the "quorum" button. Peace in the hall! Please take your seats. Please, colleagues, you're in the lobby to come to the hall. Do we have a problem with the voting cards again? What's up, buddy Badass? Please. It's not working? Technical services, whether you can access the voting device of Comrade Evil. I'm asking for peace, but I'm asking the technical services to come to the camera of my fellow Evil Man. Is he okay? It's not okay. Yours doesn't work either? It's okay. Okay. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Order! Can you wait a minute to figure out if things aren't working out yet? I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. 54 present, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Comrade Evil, is the device all right? [[Yes, it ……]] Thank you very much. I welcome all of you to the 16th meeting, including the representatives of the government, who will join us in a number of ways. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 14th session and of the 16th, 17th and 18th extraordinary meeting. Records are available in the computer network. Does any of the colleagues or colleagues have a different opinion, proposal, comment? I guess not. That's how I'm going to move on to making a decision on the minutes of the 14th session. No comments are made on the minutes. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the minutes of the 14th session. 58 in attendance, 53 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Since no comments were made to the minutes of the 16th extraordinary meeting, we are moving on to a decision on it. We vote on the minutes of the 16th extraordinary session. 51 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 16th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. No comments were made on the minutes of the 17th extraordinary meeting. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the minutes of the 17th extraordinary session. 61 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 17th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. No comments were made to the minutes of the 18th extraordinary meeting and I am moving on to a decision on it. We're voting. We have also made this decision. 45 out of 50 supported the proposal of the minutes of the 18th extraordinary meeting, and no one opposed it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the minutes have been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to the agenda for the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda by reference to 14 May of this year. In accordance with Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure, we will set the agenda. First, we will move on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. On the basis of an agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, we propose the withdrawal of those agenda items which are not ready for consideration by the home working body at the meeting of the assembly. I note that those conditions do not comply with points 16, 18, 26, 27 and 30. I therefore propose that we decide to withdraw these items from the agenda. I propose that we discuss all the proposals together, and, of course, after the discussion, we will decide on each proposal individually. What do the rapporteurs want to say about individual working bodies? Once again, points 16, 18, 26, 27 and 30. Do representatives of the government want to take the floor when they withdraw? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat, Madam Secretary? [[Not at all.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on individual proposals. On the vote, I propose to withdraw from the agenda the point of Comrade Lavrinc, please. [[...]] I'm sorry. I didn't see you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	I understood you could only discuss these points. And I have a proposal to move away from the 29th point, this is the proposal for a law amending the Income Act. I can also say if you'll allow me, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	No, I would later. We'll follow procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Comrade Petty Officer, did you want to make these proposals? [[No, no, ……]] We'll take this decision step by step. Next, I propose the withdrawal of point 16 from the agenda because it does not meet the procedural conditions. We're voting. 62 in attendance, 55 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that point 16 is not on the agenda. We decide on point 18, the law on radiation protection and nuclear danger. We're voting. 63 present, 55 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. I propose to vote that item 26 be removed from the agenda, and this is a guarantee law. We're voting. Peace in the hall! 63 colleagues and colleagues, 54 for, 2 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that we have accepted this proposal. I am voting on the proposal to withdraw item 27 from the agenda, but it is a law on restrictive measures. We are voting on this proposal. 63 present, 56 for, one against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted the motion to withdraw. Finally, I propose to the vote that item 30 be removed from the agenda, the Law on the Temporary Prohibition of the Privatisation of Banks. We're voting. We have also voted on this proposal. 64 present, 56 for and none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Comrade Lavrinc had a procedural proposal to withdraw point 29. Do you want to base the proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	Yes, please. Look, already at the college, at your college, at the College of the President of the National Assembly, I think there were very strong arguments why it would be wise to postpone the second reading of this law. There's something else I'd like to add. In fact, when we decide on such important matters, it would certainly be good to have all the needed numbers on the table that can convince us in one way or another. This is not just about what is being paid the highest attention to the taxation of families with multiple children and so on, but also about some other issues that are equally important and difficult. In particular, in order to take the time, and in any event not to be late, I would suggest to my colleagues and colleagues that you allow us all together to arm ourselves with the necessary information that we will have to receive in different ways, and in particular we will depend here on the Ministry of Finance, so that we can withdraw from this second session of the law on changes to the law on income, and, as I said, time is sufficient in my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak to the chairman of the Finance Committee as a parent working body? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a word with the secretariat, secretary? [[No, no, ……]] They then have the floor under the Rules of Procedure of the Group of Members. First of all, colleague Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. The New Slovenia Group opposes the withdrawal of the Income Act from the agenda. We propose that this be considered only to the extent determined by the Constitutional Court. As you know, dear colleagues and colleagues, our country does not respect the constitutional provisions on income law, family allowances or children, and it is unacceptable to postpone this. Of course, there is no need to resolve other issues in the context of this amendment. We must be aware of this responsibility. For five years we have been living in such an unconstitutional state and it would be unacceptable to postpone it. Other issues relating to this income law, whatever they are, could be left to them for a further period of time. Thank you very much. That is why, of course, we also object to this point withdrawing from the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	Mr Lavrinc's proposal for the withdrawal of point 29 has yet to be made clear. I'm asking representatives of the parliamentary groups. Did you guys pick it up together, please? [[...]] Here you are, colleague Barovic, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that this is how colleagues, on the one hand and on the other, in terms of their decisions, are now in a matte position. I am probably not the only one who received a number of complaints and objections from Slovenes and Slovenians regarding the Income Act by e-mail. They must have been picked by their colleagues, too. On the one hand, it is wise to accept the proposal put forward by Mr Lavrinc, because, of course, if adjustments and corrections to this law are to take place, then this law will come into consideration faster than if we decide on this law, which on the other hand would be good again, if it were appropriate, it might fall and we will have to start the procedure again. That is why I think, colleagues and colleagues, that serious consideration is needed when deciding on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Barovich. On behalf of the SDS Group of Members, a colleague of Dr Brejc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, it is commendable that after the government takes five years to prepare a systemic solution and eliminate all that is unconstitutional in this law, an individual Member, in this case Mr Pucko, prepares a series of amendments to the law. Of course, he ignored some of the facts. He did not take into account that since the year 94, when we are talking about her nativity, Slovenia has reversed that every time we are getting smaller and smaller, and that no one has actually done anything systematic to make this issue of nativity better. Now we are surprised because the Constitutional Court has decided on the matter, and they are withdrawing what they intended to do in the beginning. Their proposal, at least in some parts, is good, but in some it is bad. And I think it would be right to consider this law in order to express their good solutions and our good solutions instead of their bad solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group wish to give their views on the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda, as proposed by colleague Lavrinc? [[No, no, ……]] Does the applicant wish to further explain his proposal? He does. Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	I would just like to add that in all laws, when we decide on additional public financial burdens, to put it that way, I would like to be responsible. That's the first one. Secondly, what has already been said here today, if nothing else, I have not been able to read all the letters, e-mails, I have not been able to read them - I would like to say, I will take the time and not just me, I advise others that, in making such important decisions - after all, I know what a good suggestion is: it is good where the budget takes about 6 billion more, but it is bad where some of the change is saved at the expense of families with a large number of children. Of such things, I think, and especially because it is known when this will be taken into account, it is worth taking time, and that would be my additional explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Okay, we don't have a chance to discuss others. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw this item from the agenda. We vote on the motion to withdraw. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall. 46 colleagues and colleagues voted in favour, 18 against 68, which means that the motion for withdrawal has been adopted. [[The vote was 46.]] [[There were 18 votes against.]] We have another motion to withdraw. We don't. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. The reference was made to the extension of the agenda by the examination of points I.1, I.4, I.12 and I.14 in the part relating to the proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, the point in the part relating to the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Planina, and to the decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. This has been prepared by the Internal Policy Committee. I ask the chairman of the committee, my colleague Lavrinz, whether he wishes to speak in this regard, namely with a proposal for an extension. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	So the proposal for an extension is why it is in a hurry, but actually it would be more childish to explain. We're in time trouble, anyway, and of course I'm pleading for such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Secretariat? [[He doesn't want a word.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The National Assembly adopted the proposal. 49 of the 64 colleagues voted in favour, 11 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[There were 11 votes against.]] The point will be considered by the National Assembly as the 6th item of the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law on the register of electoral rights, which is at 3rd reading, pursuant to Article 2(4) of the Rules of Procedure, for consideration by the assembly. The assembly proposes that we extend this proposal to the agenda by considering this proposal. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretary of the Secretariat? Representatives of parliamentary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. 60 in attendance, 44 in, 8 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, submitted a proposal on 20 this month for the election of a Constitutional Court Judge. I propose to the assembly that we extend this matter to the agenda of this meeting. He wants to speak to the secretary of the secretariat? A representative of the government? Representatives of parliamentary groups? Then we will decide on this proposal. Let us vote on the proposal to extend the agenda by proposing to elect a Constitutional Court Judge! 58 in attendance, 46 in, 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We'll treat it like the 30th point of the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the assembly that the agenda be extended by considering the proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence of East Timor. Secretary of State, Mr. Zbogar, you have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government is proposing an extension with a proposal for a decision on the recognition of East Timor's independence. East Timor declared independence last Sunday, May 20th. In line with the declaration on the foreign policy of the National Assembly, which recognises the right of peoples to self-determination, we propose that the National Assembly address the issue of the recognition of Timor as soon as possible and adopt an appropriate decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee, colleague Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	Mr. President! The allocation of this item to the agenda was obtained during the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, which was held together with the Defence Committee, and therefore the joint meeting was suspended and this item will be discussed below. I therefore propose that you consider this proposal as if the Foreign Policy Committee had already defined itself to the proposal and put it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. Peace in the hall! 61 in attendance, 56 in, 1 in. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. This point will be treated as point 1a as soon as we have the report. I have not received any other proposals for enlargement. Do any of the Members, Members and Members of Parliament want to do so? Please, Comrade Petty Officer. An extension proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	Mr. President! I've asked you to withdraw the point before, but you just went to supplement the agenda. So I'd like you to give me a chance to propose a withdrawal. I checked in at the time, and I let you go with the block inside.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	I asked you again, and you didn't answer again. It's okay. Please, is it your proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	My proposal is to withdraw from this session, agenda item 17, the proposal for a law on disability organisations. As you, colleagues and colleagues, have been briefed, an initiative has been put forward for the referendum. And it would be quite embarrassing if we were to consider the law in another reading, and then in the third reading, we would have to change the legal matter in any way. And if a certain article were not to be amended, it would be extremely difficult to regulate it. I therefore propose that you withdraw from the agenda. Whatever, I don't know, wishes or incentives for this matter not to be regulated is certainly not a reason, but a possible complication. I think it'd be better if we arranged it this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	Would you like a Chairman of the Health Committee, a word? Please, you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This complication already says that it is very wise for the State Assembly to approach this law at an accelerated pace. This will only help to improve this internal relationship between disability organisations. And I propose that the bill remain on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	Do the parliamentary groups want to express their views? Then we will decide on the proposal to withdraw point 17 from the agenda. This proposal is made by Comrade Petty Officer. We're voting. We vote on the motion to withdraw. I'm asking for peace in the hall. From 59 to retreat 28, 25 to. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 25.]] The point is removed from the agenda. We are moving on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws on a rapid basis. I'm asking for peace in the hall. It is only in this way that it is possible to follow the debate as well as the decisions. As long as you're knocking in your laps, I'm not going to run the session because it's hard. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on mineral fertilisers for consideration by the assembly. It suggests we take it quickly. Representative of the government, would you like a word? The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. The chairman of the committee? There's no secretary. Representatives of parliamentary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law, the mineral fertiliser law, on a rapid basis. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 57 present, 46 to, 3 to. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal for adoption is adopted on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on marine fisheries for consideration by the assembly. It suggests we take it quickly. Government, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? [[Not at all.]] Emissary groups? Please, colleague Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I would like to draw your attention to the proposal made by the Secretariat of the National Assembly in the decision on the rapid procedure. We also voted on this in the committee and, of course, the majority was in favour of this law being dealt with quickly. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, however, I would like to point out that this is a system law which, in fact, is in many ways different in the area of marine fisheries and aquaculture, as it has been regulated so far. In particular, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, under this law, the fishermen who are engaged in this activity today, with the status of a farmer, will have to abandon this activity by about fifty-five natural persons and come into the process of restructuring or retirement. I think that this provision is of such a systemic nature in this law that we should talk about it more broadly and therefore, on behalf of our Group of Members, I propose, as well as the Secretariat, that this bill should be dealt with on a regular basis rather than a rapid basis. While the government mentions coordination with the European Union as a reason, this deadline of 31.l2.2001 has already expired, so that we have in fact exceeded it and it would not be essential if we had waited another two or three months for the final adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	The New Slovenia Group therefore opposes the proposal to adopt the law in a rapid manner. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? No, then we will decide on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a quick vote. Peace in the hall. 61 present, 47 to, 11 to. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing, for consideration by the assembly, a bill on seed of agricultural plants, to be adopted in a rapid manner. He wants the word "governance"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The rapporteur? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I do not see such a proposal, so we will decide on the proposal. We're voting. We vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. The proposal was adopted. 47 colleagues and colleagues of 58 supported him, 6 opposed him. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on forest reproductive material and proposes to the assembly that we adopt it quickly. He wants the word "governance"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The competent body shall support the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants a word with the secretary? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I put this proposal to the vote. The proposal for adoption following a rapid procedure has been adopted. Of the 56 voted for 42, 6 members and the Members opposed it. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] Just a minute. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending the Act on the First Pension Fund and the transformation of authorised investment companies; it proposes to adopt it quickly. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. We vote that the proposal for a law amending the Act on the First Pension Fund and the transformation of authorised investment companies is decided on a rapid basis. We have accepted this proposal. 38 out of 50 Members and Members in favour, 3 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] We are moving on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of short-term laws. The National Assembly has adopted a proposal for the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government following a reduced procedure at its 14th meeting and therefore there is no need to rule on it again. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on local elections for consideration by the assembly and proposes to adopt it in a simplified procedure. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I would like to point out in this decision that a two-thirds majority is required to adopt the proposal. We are voting on the proposal to adopt a bill following a reduced procedure. A two-thirds majority of those present are required. From 56 present 49 for, 3 to. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that we have accepted the proposal. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will decide on this proposal by noting the need for a two-thirds majority of those present for admission. 60 present, 50 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and establishing their areas and assemblies, proposing that it be adopted in a simplified procedure. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[Nobody.]] That proposal, with the previous remark on the two-thirds majority present as quorum, I shall put it to the vote. We're voting. 54 present, 42 in, 9 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We still have a proposal to adopt a bill on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act following a reduced procedure. Do any of the qualified discussers have a word for it? [[Nobody.]] I am putting this proposal to the vote, with a comment on the necessary two-thirds support for the audience. 47 in attendance, 43 in, 1 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that we have also adopted this proposal. The assembly is asking for an understanding of the proposal for a loan law with the European Investment Bank amounting to EUR 20 million to finance the ecological recovery of the Žirovski vrh mine. The government is proposing to take a quick decision. Any of the qualified discussers want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 47 out of 56 Members and Members were in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] The proposal was adopted. At the conclusion of the 19th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly adopted a decision to transfer the unfinished items to the 16th meeting of the Assembly. I don't think they need to be specifically mentioned. Points 7.a, 8, 9, 10 and 11 shall be placed on the agenda of this meeting under the second paragraph of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, amendments may be tabled until the draft law is discussed at the meeting of the assembly. Thus, we have come to a decision on the draft agenda as a whole. Anyone else want a word before making a decision? [[He doesn't want to.]] I then put this draft agenda to the vote, with amendments as voted on. Of the 54 present, 46 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] Before I decide to take a break, before the 1st item of the agenda, some announcements about this week's work. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue to decide on the graves law and other points transferred if we are able to discuss and decide on them by 13 a.m. At 2.30 p.m., we will decide on a proposal for a preliminary legislative referendum before joining NATO. Let me inform you that you are also expected to participate in the meeting of the President of the Republic and Prime Minister. We will start Thursday by deciding on the Prime Minister's proposal to appoint a new Constitutional Judge and then continue Thursday's session by deciding on laws relating to local self-government. There won't be a meeting of the National Assembly on Friday. Thus, after consultation, we agreed on a college so that the Internal Policy Committee, in whose jurisdiction most of the bill proposals are in charge, could normally meet in these months and there would be no problems with the conclusion of this committee. The National Assembly will then continue its work next week at 2 p.m. on Tuesday. That's, I think, everything you had to say before the break. At 3:30 p.m., exactly, I will start on the 1st item of the agenda - parliamentary questions and initiatives. Until then, I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues and colleagues! Nice afternoon, everybody! We continue the suspension of the 16th session. I'm asking everyone to take your seats. In the National Assembly, I welcome the Prime Minister, Drnovska and his ministers and ministers in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll move on to the 1st item of the agenda after we know the presence in the hall. That's why I'm asking you to take your seats. It's 3:31. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 54 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. The first three questions will be answered by Prime Minister Drnovšek, Prime Minister Drnovšek, the other questions by the Minister and ministers, or by authorised secretaries of state. Some of them, ministers and ministers, apologized. Instead of Andreja Richter, Minister of Culture, you will participate in the debate and answer your questions, State Secretary Baskovic and State Secretary Stopar, instead of Minister of Agriculture, mag. Buta, Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič, State Secretary and Secretary of State Franc Potočnik, instead of Presečnik, Minister of Transport, Mag. Matjaž Knez and Deputy Secretary of State Tomaž Time and Janko Deželak. As it is said, the first three questions will be asked by members of opposition groups. First of all, I'm going to invite Dr. Andre Bajuk to the floor. Please have the floor to ask the Prime Minister a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. President! When monitoring or observing the Government's unwritten strategy for the development of banking in Slovenia - as it is, we do not know for sure - we estimate with certainty that its most reckless part is the rehabilitation and privatisation of the Bank of Koper. At least from the point of view of the state budget, it certainly does. The shares of the General Bank of Koper were worth 13 German marks on 31 December 1993. Such a low value was due to liabilities to the General Navigation of Piran, which amounted to 103 million US dollars. The general navigation credits were obtained from foreign commercial banks by the Ljubljana Bank and the General Bank of Koper was a vice or a mercenary. Since the shareholders of the General Bank of Koper knew that the bank was in debt because of its obligations, they were not prepared to purchase its shares. Until the State knew that it would take over a public debt or repay the loans owed to the Bank of Koper by the General Navigation, the price of one share of the bank was around 27 German brands. This is what we know from the offer that Bank Koper's management sent to all its shareholders in 1994. But there were no buyers. These shares were not then of interest to Luka Koper, Istrabenz and Intereuropa Koper. When the government's intentions were known, these companies purchased up to 60 mark shares per share. In fact, when the state took over the repayment of US$ 75 million in debt to the General Navigation, and thus under the burden of all Slovenian taxpayers, Banka Koper recovered its share value by 70 times, i.e. 910 German marks. Thus, the expected benefits of such rehabilitation of Bank Koper were brought among its largest shareholders Luka Koper, Intereuropo and Istrabenz.The Slovenian public already knows that then these shareholders decided very quickly to sell their shares to the Italian banking institution San Paolo Imi. They waited three years, i.e. as long as it took shareholders, natural persons to avoid paying capital gains tax. In doing so, the shareholders of these three large companies made a rich profit. The question I'm asking you: How much did they earn on the stock, which will continue to burden the Slovenian budget for many years? Dear President, such a failure in the privatisation and rehabilitation of banks has already occurred for the first time in the event of the rehabilitation of the Slovenian ironworks, the Bank of Koper is only a second case. That's why I'm asking you: Do you still feel that these were the right decisions? According to our deep conviction, such solutions were not in favour of Slovenia, but certainly were in favour of private owners of Slovenian banks. That's why I'm asking you today: Has the government ever considered filing a wealth claim for the assets acquired at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers by the shareholders Luke Koper, Istrabenz and Intereurope? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister to answer the questions, let me say again, only one question can be asked will last three minutes. I suggest that we stick to the time limit, that the reasons for the questions are shorter, so that we do not eventually interrupt those you ask because of the time limit. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you. Your Honor! You have given an example that is already quite far away, so at this point I can only speak in more harsh terms. We can, of course, provide you in writing with a more detailed explanation or presentation of the experts of that time and the elements of the decision. The fact is, in the process of transition, in the process of restructuring the Slovenian economy, after we have established independence and at the same time changed the economic and political system, that these processes were accompanied by a number of State interventions, either in the banking system or in the company where it seemed after that assessment that we would protect some interest, in short, some state intervention would only help to improve the situation or also to rehabilitate companies or banks. In this way, the government has approached the rehabilitation of the two largest banks, as well as the rehabilitation of not only the piranhas or the ironworks, but also many other companies. Let me just say TAM as such. Of course, these rehabilitations have been quite successful. At some point or less, however, at that time the country did not simply hope, if I say so, to go into the policy of a complete 'LAISEZ FAIRE', in short, not to intervene, at least to some of the most neurological points of the economic structure at that time. It is expected that a single intervention will then only ensure the longer term of operation, the positive functioning of both banks and businesses. In most cases, that really happened. With regard to the question now, of course, subsequently, after almost ten years and of course identifying the new legal facts that also arise from the sale of the Bank of Koper by its private owners forward, I doubt that it is possible now to re-establish a situation or to take some retrograde measures. It is true that it is possible to look at this, but at first glance I would seriously doubt that there are such legal options. It is, however, that you will probably agree as a former banker, but it is always so in the economy, just in business. Certain transactions may bring certain benefits, others not. That, of course, it is difficult to predict in advance how things will then go for individual participants, more or less in that context. Sometimes positive, sometimes negative. But that's just business life. In particular, I would say that there were still relatively few such interventions in Slovenia, where the country had to intervene. In that case, as I recall, it was just a matter of saving that only company, a shipping company with us, and it was also attributed to a broader or strategic meaning. In most of the transition countries, the country's intervention in the economy was high. Success is different. However, it is generally estimated that the Slovenian transition from this point of view was more successful and less painful than elsewhere. Let me just remind you that this kind of transition and such interventions are only in Germany, where West Germany somehow joined East Germany, costing a lot more money, funds, a lot more troublesome cases, regardless of the fact that it was a fledgling country, which by relatively large means tried to rehabilitate part of the country with its outdated or inadequate economic structure. In Slovenia we did it to the best of our ability. And if we look at the whole thing, this is a positive result. But, of course, individual cases can be more, most of them are more, but they can be less successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, would you like a further question? Yes, you do. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much. It is true that these events are somewhat remote, but according to several Slovenian experienced legal and financial experts, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is entitled to submit a wealth claim. Unwarranted enrichment may, however, be determined by an independent audit and also enforced on the basis of the provisions of the Bond Code. However, since the damage to the interests of Slovenian taxpayers has been materialised now that the foreign buyer has paid the shares, there can be no objection to obsolescence in the opinion of these experts. At the same time, I would like to propose, given the problems the government is currently dealing with, with our public finances and the Slovenian budget, but I would certainly recommend it from the heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you, Comrade Dr. Bayuk. Would you like to answer an additional question? Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	I accept this suggestion. My first reflection is that retrograde will probably make it difficult to interfere with the legal facts behind it, but certainly, the government will try to obtain legal opinions and assess this situation and take into account your suggestion, if anything can be done, for the benefit of taxpayers in this title.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The second question that the Prime Minister is answering is now raised by his colleague Zmigo Jelinčič. You have three minutes to ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. President Drnovshek! You are also the direct chairman of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency Sova under the Government Act and your subordinate is Director Lovrenčič. In addition, you have recently hired a government security adviser, Mr Podbregar. At the same time, you are the President of the National Security Council. In view of the fact that today the anti-terrorist coalition, where we have joined us, is the most feared of certain specific types of terrorist activity, such as radiological terrorism, I would ask you: Why did Sova not respond to the data I gave to Mr Lovrenčič on 15 April, that is to say more than a month and a half ago when I brought him the data and the photographs of certain radioactive materials offered for redemption? Here I'm showing you an ampoule of red mercury weighing about 40 kg. These things were offered in ransom. I informed such a person who was willing to tell who it was, what was behind it, whose relationships to draw, and the matter was in Austria. Mr Lovrenčič has not launched any action. After a month, almost a month and a half, he didn't launch any action, and I'm just wondering: How will the Slovenian government apologize to the world public that, given what is at stake here, you have done nothing? These matters are not so few, and these matters are a terrible threat to the existence. And the fact is that the German intelligence services that I asked, in particular the representative of the "bundesnachtrichtendiensta", the representative of the Office for the Protection of Constitutional Regulations and the Office of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, have told me that they do not know anything about what shows that our intelligence service does not participate in European security. It appears that it is the so-called 'institution' that the Slovenian Intelligence Service has prepared such a matter for the discreditation of a certain Member, in which case me, as an unfavourable opposition Member, or whether it is unemployment. In both cases, it's terrible things that you may not even be aware of right now. That is why I ask you, Mr President, because you have not done anything yet in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr Member, I am not informed of your initiative, so it is difficult to comment. However, I can say that the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency is very serious, according to my opinion, very professionally and properly doing its work and has established extremely good international cooperation. I have received very favourable assessments of this from my international interlocutors, and I am sure that in this case, too, Owl is doing his job properly. But for the first time, of course, what is the credibility of individual announcements as one. The second is the question of how the reaction is. And I think that no such agency in the world has the habit of informing the media or the public about how it faces such issues. So that's all I can answer right now. If possible or in what form this is possible, depending on the nature of the activity itself or of the object, I will reply, but I will ask the Owl to respond accordingly, in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Complementary question, not more than two minutes, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	In view of the favourable assessments we have received so far, I am interested in what these assessments will be after. Regarding credibility, I think I have taken a further step in writing to President Milan Kučan on 22 April as a member of the National Security Committee. I also stated in the letter: "I also report the matter to you for my personal safety because I would not like to be a victim again of any structure of the intelligence services, as I was a victim in 1992, when a shipment of counterfeit 5,000-tlar vouchers was discovered, because I reported it to the intelligence service and the police together and thus crossed the accounts of some gentlemen". I must tell you, it is a very credible matter. I've got more of these photos. Among other things, maybe this will be closer to you, it's a container of radiation caesium 137, which was also offered in ransom. Our intelligence service did not move forward and did not contact the so-called connecting person who was willing to help Slovenia disclose this. And now I'm wondering: Is it an act against me as a Member or is it a black trade in radioactive materials involving the Slovenian State, or is it a matter of some private interest that is hidden behind all this? The matter is not simple and some Members and some gentlemen from the government are smiling. I think they will run out of laughs when those of the European Union and those of other parts of the world who do not take radiological risks with their left hand call them, but are aware of these dangers. Maybe we'll be able to track down some kind of scandal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Would you like to answer the question further? Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	Just a little while longer. Well, I repeat what I have already said, my full trust in this institution. I think he's doing really well and professionally. Of course, it is a question of how he reacts or how he reacts to certain such moves, whether it is provocation or anything: this is something that I think we are having a hard time discussing in the National Assembly. It's either some kind of publicity or something, or it's a serious matter. This is probably what our intelligence security agency has developed its opinion and responded accordingly. Of course I'll ask around. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you very much. The last, third question to the Prime Minister will be raised by a fellow mag. A visor. You have the floor, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! At one of the last sessions, the government adopted a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Governments of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to the investment in, exploitation and degradation of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. It has been a while since the negotiating group completed the work and, of course, at the same time, both the agreement on the Krška nuclear power plant and the agreement on the flow of the interstate border between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia were initialled. This was a rather ambitious plan of both countries to close some very important issues, interstate issues and, of course, take a significant step forward in relations between the countries and, of course, all of us who monitored this, more than outside, because the negotiations were held behind very closed doors, we were also hoping, somehow, for a positive divide that would be in favour of the Republic of Slovenia and certainly also in favour of the Republic of Croatia, because the agreements are such a nature. However, this ambitious plan failed quickly, as the Republic of Croatia was unwilling and willing to talk or ratify an agreement on the flow of the interstate border. This left only the agreement on the Krsko nuclear power plant. This agreement is clearly bad and unacceptable to the Slovenian side. It is not in line with the professional points, it has not been uncoordinated, not predebated, both by the professional public and, of course, by the local communities. That's why he's got some very controversial points. I ask the Prime Minister: Why are we now forcing the adoption of this part of regulating interstate relations, which is bad for Slovenia, which is obviously bad for Slovenia, as experts confirm, and ultimately a large part of the policy? What's in the background? We understood that we want to conclude and close some of the chapters of interstate relations. Why do we now insist on accepting just this work that is bad for Slovenia, which is unacceptable to Slovenia? Why cause problems to future generations of Slovenes and Slovenes who will have to do this unwisely and I think it is also likely that an unacceptable adventure will always be paid? That's my basic question: Why, what's behind it? Why are we now forcing only what is the short-term benefit of Croatia and the weakness of Slovenia, of course? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. You can turn it off, Comrade Visjak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you, Mr Member for your question. Relations with Croatia have been one of our country's main open problems over the past decade, arising from the period of independence. It is therefore understandable that the Slovenian government has also tried to resolve this issue as a priority since the beginning of this mandate, once a new relationship has been established. So last year we devoted a great deal of energy, time and also managed to solve two more open issues, borders and nukes in Krk, on an intergovernmental level. As you know, the border agreement was initialled, but then, due to a violent reaction on the Croatian side, further procedures were stalled. The agreement has not been signed and, of course, has not been ratified. And he stood at this point: concluded between governments, confirmed on both governments, and also parishioned. In itself, of course, it already represents a very important fact even in any future resolution of the border situation, or of an agreed or different one. As far as the Krška nuclear power plant is concerned, we have been solving this issue in recent years. Last year, in fact, on exactly the same grounds as we have tried in previous years, at the same starting points, we have also tried to close this issue. We have reached an intergovernmental agreement, including the signing of this agreement. We are at this point when both governments then sent this agreement to parliament for ratification. Croatia a little earlier, we a little later. We have some criticism of this agreement, especially on the issue of waste, that it does not deal with a sufficiently binding or sufficiently fixed issue. On the Croatian side, it's the other way around. This is also the main point of criticism on the Croatian side, because Croatia has assumed some obligation to waste which has so far not actually been in the current state. That's the criticism on their side. It is clear that there are many problems on the Croatian side and that ratification of this agreement is very questionable there. In short, the Croatians are dissatisfied with him and he is also a dissatisfied part of our public. This fact alone shows that such agreements do not involve a very simple and unique solution, which everyone would applaud, always involve some balanced compromises, because, of course, there is no possibility of ratification of this agreement at all. In this case, we have reached a fairly balanced compromise after our assessment, as well as on the border issue, but nevertheless there are difficulties in ratifying or even signing on the Croatian side and there are some problems, although smaller than in Croatia, even on our side. But on our side, I think we could do that, that was our assessment of both ratifications to the end, if, of course, the Croatian side were also somehow able to carry out the obligations that the government has undertaken in these agreements. Apparently, with a border issue, this is even harder than with a nuclear power plant, but also with a nuclear power plant. As far as the ratification of the nuclear agreement is concerned, we have therefore, in the government, if I say quite frankly, followed the obvious Croatian problems in this regard, considered whether the government should send an agreement to the ratification of the national assembly or not, and then decided that, of course, if the government has confirmed the agreement and also signed that it is logical to send it to the national assembly for ratification, that the national assembly itself or, better still, in agreement with the government, it can assess when or whether it will ratify or ratify this agreement. Such an assessment would also depend on how the Croatian side acts in solving this and other mutual problems. At the time of the negotiations, we also offered other options, especially that Slovenia takes over the entire nuclear power plant and then an appropriate agreement is reached. At that time, the Croatian party rejected and preferred to regulate relations based on those relations that were established at the time of the construction of the nuclear power plant itself, i.e. with equal investment and regulation of all rights and obligations under this investment. When we see that there are a lot of concerns on the Croatian side about the ratification of this Treaty - obviously such bilateral relations are very complicated because they are always involved in domestic policy, foreign policy, problems get a whole different dimension, although they are mainly professional issues by nature - and perhaps it would be easier if one country takes over the management and management of the entire nuclear power plant in Krsak and the proper regulation of relations with another country, and with appropriate compensation. We are still ready for this solution. It may now become relevant if serious concerns are also raised on the Croatian side to address this problem, not just the border issue. Once again, I would like to add that obviously such questions, which are drawn from the past, that they like to politicise, are a serious test stone of the maturity of each policy. It is always easier, for any policy, to take a populist position and to potentiate its interest, to ignore the fact that if two partners want to agree that there must be a balanced agreement and a relationship, and to make a policy with it. I think that we have already been through this phase in Slovenia, and that is why we are much closer than the Croatian side, to really conclude and confirm such an agreement. However, it seems that the situation in Croatia is even more difficult and that at least at this point their policy will probably not be able to confirm such complicated agreements as the border agreement and the agreement on nuclear power in Krška. I think that we have done everything possible by the government to resolve these issues. From here on out of our ability, we cannot influence the other side to carry out its procedures until the end. Therefore, I repeat, in the case of the Krško nuclear power plant, we are prepared for a different arrangement than we were before, but at that time the Croatian side, as I said, did not accept it. If we are now ready for such talks, we too are willing to renew them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Do you have a supplementary question, Comrade Mag? A viscous? Please. Two minutes for a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. It is precisely because the dissatisfaction on both sides with regard to this agreement, and precisely because the agreement is, in the light of future generations, undefined, and places great responsibilities on them, which we are not prepared to resolve here today, that agreement is unacceptable to the Slovenian side. As far as the landfill of radioactive waste is concerned, it does not solve the agreement anything like that to pass on to some future arrangement. So the agreement doesn't deal with that. Neither does decomposition. The agreement also provides for an extremely short-term solution only for the Croatian side in favour, namely to start with 1.7.2002 receiving the price of electricity unladen by costs, both landfills of radioactive waste and decommissioning. This is unacceptable for Slovenia, because this is the only lever with which the Slovenian side can hold the Croatian side to meet its contractual obligations. Unfortunately, we will be left behind after the closure of the nuclear war against the neighbouring country, whether the contractual obligations will be met and, at the same time, because of the inter-State treaties and ratified conventions, we will have to settle all issues related to the nuclear facility, both its decommissioning and, of course, its storage. The agreement does not regulate these matters and is very beneficial to the Croatian side. On the other hand, an agreement on the border, which is probably the priority of Slovenian policy in the light of the European Community's approximation and, last but not least, the resolution of our vital problems, could be the first thing we would like to take. No, we have given up, we have stopped accepting and negotiating the state border, and now only the government is sending this agreement to Parliament, which is primarily on account and in favour of Croatia. In short, I'm sure there are some promises behind this agreement that there is some background. I ask once again: Why is the government pushing just before the workers ratify this in Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	Would you like to make any further clarifications, Mr. Prime Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Why the government suggested it, I explained it to you, I think it's understandable enough. That's the first one. Secondly, I insist, of course, on behalf of the Government, that this agreement is positive and has resolved issues that are not now resolved. Your proposal, therefore, if there is no agreement, means a status quo situation. The status quo situation means that we have unresolved nuclear issues, that this is bad for business and the development of a nuclear power plant, that there is no unnecessary issue of waste and that the only way to solve this is to resolve it in an agreement with Croatia. But that this agreement is difficult and that we have actually achieved as much as the Croatian side thinks it is too much, in short, that it is unacceptable for them to do so.And if anyone here can say how it is possible to prepare another side, besides adopting an agreement, then prepare their parliament for ratification or their policy up to, say, ratification in this case also of the border agreement, I will be very grateful for such a recipe. In short, I think that the solutions to this agreement for Slovenia are acceptable, otherwise of course we would not have gone there. For us, it is a bad situation when nothing is regulated, in fact when a problem is very open, giving a lot of room for manoeuvre also to various critics from third countries who oppose the nuclear power plant in Krška, its operation, and also in the future European context. It was therefore perfectly legitimate and understandable that the government had tried to settle the issue. I think it's a ridiculous claim that the government is failing in the border agreement. The Slovenian government has done everything that could be done, negotiated the agreement, initialled it. When we had to sign it, the Croatian side was no longer ready and obviously unable to sign because of the pressure of the domestic public and the political parties in Croatia. Clearly, this is still the case today. What the Slovenian government is failing to do is of great interest to me. I think our position in these matters is very clear that we have done everything we could, that we have done it in a civilized way, a democratic way, taking into account all the professional arguments and also by negotiating in the best possible way. However, I repeat, the partner on the other hand is obviously not yet able to resolve these issues in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	Procedural proposal, colleague mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. On the basis of Article 29(2), at the request of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, we request that a debate be held on the Prime Minister's response to the question raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	Representative of the Group of the Socialist Party, colleague of mag. Andrej Vizjak proposes the application of Rule 29(2) of the Rules of Procedure. At the 15th meeting, a discussion was held on the Government's response at the request of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, so this request is justified. I'll give my word to the motioner first. You have a maximum of 15 minutes to explain the proposal. Then he will have a government representative or government at his disposal for 15 minutes, and representatives of the groups will have five minutes each. Who will be the proposer on your side? Mag. Vizjak, you have a word and 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, we will share this time with our fellow Member, Branko Kelemino. I would like to point out in the introduction only a few remarks by the Prime Minister, which have stimulated this desire or this request for discussion. The Prime Minister spoke about the current regulation, the unregulated state in the nuclear field, which even causes some problems in the further operation and development of the facility. I must draw attention to the position of the nuclear power plant's management, which says that medium-term operation is ensured in accordance with all possible legal criteria and also developmentally favourable and well-defined. It is not true that this agreement would be problematic under this heading. Actually, it's the other way around. On the contrary, because the Croatian side has different objectives and different plans with the object than the Slovenian side. It is in the interest of the Slovenian parties that this facility operates in accordance with standards of quality, long and also effective and effective. Therefore, the Slovenian side constantly invests in the facility, renews it and cares for the optimum condition of this facility and, of course, also for the optimal quality operation of this facility. The Croatian side is interested in media responses from all the menus after closing this facility as soon as possible, at the cost of electricity from this facility and at as little investment in this facility as possible. Following the current contract and the nuclear agreement, the management of this facility is parity composed and only on the Director is the decisive vote that can be used almost in emergencies. In short, the administration will have an eternal conflict and will have to define decisions forever by consensus. If the administration has different interests with the development and perspective of the facility, this is a very poor journey for the efficient management and management of the facility. Therefore, I think that the agreement brings significantly worse solutions at this point than is currently in force. As far as radioactive waste is concerned and decommissioning, the Republic of Slovenia is responsible under all international conventions and will also have to find its own solution under this Agreement. Moreover, the agreement provides that no solution is necessary and does not oblige anyone to seek solutions for the storage of radioactive waste prior to the closure of the nuclear power plant, which can also be estimated in 2040 and 2050. The Slovenian side leaves the solution to such an important issue as the storage of radioactive waste, future generations, our sons, our grandchildren. I think that this is extremely irresponsible and irresponsible from Slovenian current policy. Otherwise, the agreement provides that we will seek solutions from Croatia on the basis of this agreement. We have experienced how we have so far sought any solutions with Croats. Unfortunately, we have never found them, and even in this case we will not find them. That is why I believe that if we start supplying electricity to a nuclear power plant, we will be bound by any guarantee to solve this problem. I would only point out that it is extremely irresponsible of the Slovenian government, that it has ignored the negotiating points that have been given by this Parliament, because it has ignored the requirements set out in the National Assembly and, of course, has negotiated some of the solutions that we now find inadequate. Let me just say one negotiating ground that was broken and not respected. This is that the price on the electricity threshold, which can be both for Croats and for us, is the price charged at all costs associated with production, i.e. with the costs of decommissioning and storage costs. The Slovenian party did not pursue this in the negotiations and decided otherwise to give the Croatians a price without these costs. I think it's unacceptable for Slovenia. In the framework of time, he will continue the debate by his fellow Member, Branko Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	Comrade Kelemin, you have more than 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President of the National Assembly, Members and Members of Parliament, Mr President of the Government, representatives of the Government! Let me continue this important question. I would just like to remind you of when, in fact, the government's starting points for negotiations were given. I think it happened somewhere in 1995. This starting point was also established by the Committee on International Relations, followed by a negotiating group. And what happened in this negotiating group? This, of course, has been identified all the time, especially recently. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! You did not allow local communities to join this negotiating group. You have not asked anyone from the local community for an opinion on the drafting of this treaty. You didn't even include the NEK experts, nor did you include the relevant profession. This has also been pointed out at several levels by the representatives of the profession that they have not been included in the negotiating group in the preparation of this Treaty. Then you prepared a proposal that you sent to the State Assembly of the Foreign Policy Committee in July 2001, where two meetings were held. I happened to be present on this committee, and also some of my fellow Members, and some of the other Members immediately, Mr President of the Prime Minister, have strongly pointed out all the shortcomings and errors of this Treaty's proposal. We have also warned the chairman of the committee, Mr Kacin, but you have completely ignored all of our reasoned, weighty proposals and have not responded to them at all. Then came a visit to the Committee on Foreign Policy at the Krška nuclear power plant, where once again some of the members of the committee and other representatives of the National Assembly again drew attention to all these shortcomings and mistakes of this contract, but Mr Kacin said, in Krškem, historical words and said, "He who is not content with little is not getting much". I specifically wrote that down. So, Slovenians, since this facility is in Slovenia, let us be content with the small. I don't know what kind of kid we have to be happy with so we don't get a big one. Whether this project is ours and Slovenia and, in fact, must be the majority, rights and all that comes out of it, in Slovenian hands, not to satisfy ourselves with some small things. He also said that NEK is not a self-service where you take what you need and leave the rest. Of course, because that is true, we are aware of this, but we do believe that no one has considered those comments that we have made. Then something else happened. 11.9.2001, we wrote the Members, and 15 Members of Parliament signed this, Mr President of the Government, an open letter to you. I'm asking you why you didn't answer this open letter or the question is, did you even get it in your hands? I don't think you got it. In general, we have again warned of all the shortcomings and errors of this proposal for a contract, but you obviously ignored or ignored our initiative with your colleagues and did not respond. 5.10.2001 also expressed negative views on this proposal for a contract by the NEK Fund's Supervisory Committee for Financing and Dismantling. You didn't respond to their warnings either. 11.12.2001 was followed by a second open letter from the 12 Members. Dear Prime Minister, you have not felt so much responsibility to respond to the Group of Members by at least one word anywhere or at least by your representatives. We have only collected twelve signatures, but I am firmly convinced that this was at the stage of the non-meeting of the National Assembly so that more of these signatures could be significant. Unfortunately, we were unable to gather them at that time because it happened in one day. You ignored us again, and you did nothing. Tell me why. Tell me why, what game are you actually playing in this story to ignore us like that. Well, then there was movement in the local community and in the region. Thus, an open letter to the Prime Minister from Posavje was followed on 17.12. All the mayors, the mayors, the directors of the administration, the members of the National Assembly of Posavje and also the state councilor Bojan Petan addressed the letter to you again. Again, you haven't been able to answer a single word. Why this ignorance? Then there was this signature in Krška, where you found with great relief that after moments of politicization you had reached a great deal of agreement. Mr President, you have not once allowed us to dispute or discuss these matters with you. That's what you're talking about. No, we enthusiastically proposed reasoned proposals, but we should never have discussed them in any corrective way with you. Why this happened, of course, you will explain today if you want to. You say it's a dissatisfaction on both sides. Of course, apparent discontent. Apparently, surely Croats are not as stupid as we are, that they will now be shouting at all the voices about how this is an appropriate proposal for a treaty for them. I'm sure they won't. Just because of the political interests, we know, Mr Vizjak told me what are the negative points that we cannot agree on at all and we can never accept. You say these are questions that are drawn from the past. Who, though, has always been involved in solving these questions? Please answer this question to the Slovenian public: Who has been solving these questions even since 1992 if you want to, to this day? I don't know who you can talk to right now. You also said you offered some other measures. We have reliable information, Mr Prime Minister, that there has been no formal offer to buy a nuclear power plant from our side of Croatia. This was stated by the highest representatives of the Croatian side. There was no official offer. Tell us why this official offer was not made or how far you had come with this conversation. Now, of course, you're taking full responsibility for the National Assembly. You've done your job, you want to wash your name, and you throw all your responsibility at the National Assembly, even the incomprehensible things have happened. In fact, look, even the lies and deceptions of the Slovenian public. The JEK Agreement, one article, Mr Kopač made a statement here and says: "The Intergovernmental Treaty on JEK is fully in line with the negotiating points set by the State Assembly before the start of the negotiations. Members must decide whether to respect their own negotiating points or not in the form of ratification of the agreement." Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The National Assembly never decided on these matters. It's pure deception. I myself, on behalf of our Group of Members, denied this article and requested correction. This was published in Del on 27 March 2002. The media violated the media law and did not publish my amendment, where I strongly stated that the National Assembly had never discussed these matters, but only the Committee on International Relations or the Committee on Foreign Policy and no one else. It is pure lies and pure deception of the Slovenian public. This Slovenian media is not capable of dementing, nor is the Member's warning. This is absurd, which has no case in European policy. Here we have specified exactly what mistakes we are making. But there's another big nonsense. Please note that the specific contract itself is currently bearing the title of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to the investment in, storage and decommissioning of, the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. It is not any agreement that is actually accepted or negotiated by the National Assembly, but, in particular, by the Government. All the responsibility for all the negative consequences arising from this Treaty, which will follow if this is accepted on the Croatian side and in the national assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, will certainly be borne by the government. Personally, I think, as President of the Commission of Inquiry, that this disconnect, at least we have found, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had no strategy on how it would deal with electricity surpluses, no strategy, respected by Mr President, and as a result of this huge economic damage, a few million marks of damage - we will of course find out later - and I also ask you at this point, do you think that Croatia would be the opposite if the nuclear power plant were on the Croatian side, given us all the rights we offer them - never. If you don't know that answer, I can tell you - never. And I ask you, what happens after 1.7.2002 if this agreement or this treaty is not approved in the National Assembly? How's the power supply going to go? Do we have long-term contracts to sell? Are we going back to selling to the daily markets, where we know that we will again create great economic damage to Slovenia? I firmly believe that the National Assembly must defend only the economic and political interests of the State of Slovenia and no other interests. We are not interested in the country of Croatia, we must only pursue our interests and no other interests; of course, we can, in agreement with others, solve other issues. To mention, the Committee on International Relations has nicely ordered that these issues should be addressed in accordance with other issues, unresolved issues with Croatia. But you have said that these issues are resolved separately, without any other questions, which is not true and cannot be kept because it is also an order from the National Assembly or the Committee for International Relations to resolve this in a package. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	Before I give my word to the government to answer in 15 minutes, let me just explain the procedural nature. Today, too, at the college, we discussed the question of when the National Assembly will consider the proposal for a law on ratification - this proposal is included in the previous reference - whether we will include this proposal for a law on ratification at the next one, and the June meeting will also decide because it was said that an agreement had been reached in Zagreb between the President of the Assembly and me that both parliaments would consider the ratification law in parallel, to clarify once again that there was no such agreement - this is a proposal by the Croatian party that I then gave an assessment, both to the leaders of the parliamentary groups and to the Committee on Foreign Policy. The decision to put this bill on the agenda in June is still ahead of us and is a matter of political consultation. So much for questions of procedural nature. Who wants to have a word from government representatives first? Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	Mr President, first a few words and then I would ask Minister Kopač to continue to answer. Once again, I would say that this agreement - Mr Kelemina said, from when did it actually come, who was solving this problem - this problem arises more than 20 years ago. At the time, a nuclear power plant was built in Krske, together with Croatia, and a basic agreement was concluded, then on the pooling of labour and resources and so on. This agreement laid down fundamental principles. These principles also led to negotiations. Therefore, each 50 % investor and this ratio should also be transferred to all other obligations and rights under this Treaty. This was our framework from which we tried to get out of that outdated contract into a new treaty between the two countries on the joint management of a nuclear power plant in Krk. It is probably understandable that the Croatian side did not agree to solutions that would be worse than this basic contract. What has happened is that this basic initial contract from more than 20 years ago does not solve the issue of waste, that this issue has been patented by the Slovenian side and tried to resolve it in this contract. The maximum solution that we can achieve is therefore the solution that we will jointly seek a solution for waste and that if we do not find it, the Croatian side will eventually take over its waste. So that's what we were able to maximum negotiate, and that's the first time after 10 years of negotiations that we've come this far. The government considered this to be an extreme bargaining achievement. And as such, of course, it represents it to the national assembly. This is the most that could be achieved after 10 years in negotiations. According to our assessment, this is better than the unresolved situation, than the status quo situation, than the unregulated situation that our neighbours and the European Union are facing, which, according to many, may also affect the operation of a nuclear power plant or even its safety. These are the reasons why the government thought it necessary to resolve this problem and conclude an agreement with Croatia. The government does not just have the responsibility to solve a problem and to take responsibility for what those solutions are, it also has the responsibility if it fails to solve a problem. Although it seems easier. The simplest is, of course, not to solve the problem, to take certain maximum positions to the other side, at home to talk about how much we are negotiating and, of course, nothing to achieve in the negotiations. That's the easiest thing to do. But of course, responsibility is also due to such a situation, a situation of irregular relations. You have to cut it once. At a time when we really want to become a state governed and when we need to solve such things once. Let me just answer a partial question, or Mr Kelemina, when he talked about how much the government can sell this electricity at the expense of our national economy. The thing is, it's about selling the Croatian part of electricity. As long as Slovenia manages nuclear power itself, with a unilateral decision, it is always questionable whether it is justified, if not said, morally or legally controversial to sell with long-term contracts the Croatian part of electricity. This dilemma, of course, exists all the time. This dilemma was also a few years ago when the failure to pay the Croatian side was shut down. Selling that electricity in a long-term way means we are not counting on solving the problem, a bilateral solution to the problem, and we are not counting on an agreement. In any case, this is legally disputed. Even if we do this, it is very likely that legal proceedings will be subject to it on the other hand. It was therefore understandable that we were looking for an orderly solution to this problem and therefore an agreement with the Croatian side. Only then will these things be perfectly normal, clear, and legal. Therefore, I repeat that the Government has done everything in its power to reach the best possible agreement for our countries. Of course, there are two sides to each of these negotiations, each one representing its interests, and in the end we try to find some balanced ones. But obviously these, I repeat, also these solutions are quite controversial on the Croatian side, which shows that the agreement is only balanced and that neither side obviously thinks that the winner, which is the other side, if I say so, has brought around. Since such agreements are not usually available, they are not sustainable. As for Mr. Kelemina, your letters and other letters, I apologize if there was no direct answer. However, I have often appeared in public with these answers, and I have already answered these questions here in the National Assembly. So is Minister Digač and others. The government has been answering these questions all the time, and we have concluded that our view, which we have repeatedly repeated, is clear and well - known to all. Thank you. Also Minister Digač.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	Minister Mag. The digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to respond to some specific statements made by Mr Visiak and Mr Kelemina, who, in my opinion, do not correspond to the truth. First, it was said that Croatia has interests which are contrary to security, so it was understood, safety of operation. Of course, I don't think he's holding it in any way. Each co-owner, whether it is Croatia or originating in Croatia, comes from the United States of America, or from anywhere else, anywhere in the world, each owner is of course interested in the safe operation of such a device, because this is the only way to ensure long-term operation. It is not in anyone’s interest that so many billions of tolars throw away just so that they may be able to tease someone. Of course, it is of mutual interest that this works safely. After all, it is important to be aware of what the Croatian Prime Minister also said publicly, the Krško Nuclear Power Plant is eventually located near Zagreb. It is much closer to Zagreb than the Ljubljanas, so I am absolutely sure that they have an interest in making it work safely. You say that it is bad in the agreement that the management of the Krška Nuclear Power Plant should have the required consent of two members of the administration, one would be proposed by the Slovenian side and the other by the Croatian side. This is, of course, the result of both of us being 50% co-owners. Besides, it's not even possible to go. That's a fact. It is true, however, that the agreement, and this is also a major bargaining success in our opinion, provides that in three cases the President of the Administration, proposed by the Slovenian side, has the right to vote. These three examples are: when it comes to nuclear safety issues, then the President of the Administration, say Slovenian, can vote; when it comes to the issue of damage caused to an economic society; and thirdly, when it comes to the question of compliance, or perhaps the failure to comply with the economic plan of the company for that year. We believe that these are all important cases in which a conflict may arise and, in all these important cases, the President of the Management Board has the envisaged vote under the agreement. You say that the agreement leaves the issue of waste disposal to the end of the life of the Krška nuclear power plant. You mentioned 2023 or even scored 2040, the end is foreseen for 2023. While this is possible in the event of extremes, in the event that this issue would not have been resolved earlier, the agreement provides that a solution should be sought and sought within one year of the agreement in force in the Parity Commission. Let us ask ourselves what the existing agreement, which is still valid this very moment, is saying between the Executive Council of the Socialist Republic of Croatia and the Executive Council of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia from the beginning of the 1970s. In fact, this agreement does not say much about waste, but it is a fact that, in accordance with current obligations, this is in one way or another stored in a temporary warehouse for the duration of operation or as long as the temporary storage is sufficient. I mean, you always have to compare what the agreement says with the existing situation. The current situation is very bad, it puts this problem far into the future, of course, the agreement is trying to solve it much earlier. You're saying the government ignored the negotiating points set by the National Assembly. In doing so, I must insist that they have been established by the State Assembly under the law on external matters, otherwise the inter-agency change has been made, and the negotiating venues, on behalf of the National Assembly, are adopted by the Committee on International Relations. If anyone in the National Assembly disagrees, of course, he must tell the parental committee. But the National Assembly or, on its behalf, the Committee on International Relations has adopted negotiating points, which, of course, were very consistent with the Government's conclusion of the agreement, and so there is no basis for any indication that we have exceeded these points or that we have not adhered to them. You mentioned as an example that we did not stick to the fact that the price on the threshold of the Krka nuclear power plant must be the same for both sides, of course the agreement provides that it is the same for both sides. It is true, however, that it is intended to be marketed on the Slovenian side by Elesgen and in Croatia by Hep, which, of course, each party has to pay the decommissioning costs, when we are already at the cost of decommissioning, let us again compare what is said in the existing agreement, which is still in force. That's not a question he's touching at all. By means of this proposal for an inter-State agreement, the Republic of Croatia has assumed an obligation to finance decommissioning. You have also said many times in public, if we do not believe in Croatia, it will certainly not do so. That's kind of what it was like to understand, maybe I misunderstood. But the fact is, by ratifying this in the Croatian Parliament, it would become a state obligation and it guarantees this, so writes the agreement, the Croatian state budget. A greater guarantee, such as a guarantee of the state budget, is not in international finances at all. This issue, which is now not mentioned in the existing agreements at all, is automatically at the burden of the Republic of Slovenia at the burden of the Republic of Slovenia. This issue is now being resolved in such a way that Croatia assumes the state guarantee with its budget. Later, Mr Kelemina says that there were no representatives of local communities in the negotiating group, there were no representatives of the profession, there were no representatives of the management of the Krška nuclear power plant. There were no representatives of the local community, of course, this is not a local facility, it is, after all, a state facility, although it has an impact on the local community. The fact is, however, that the negotiating group was composed of representatives of the State. The country's representatives were experts in various fields, including nuclear experts in this negotiating group. Of course, there were no representatives of the Krško nuclear power plant. It'd be kind of rude. Croatia could also theoretically have employees in its negotiating group at the Krško nuclear power plant. Today there are 150 Croats who go to work daily at the Krška nuclear power plant, some of whom also have leading positions. Not in the Croatian negotiating group or in Slovenia there were no employees at the Krško nuclear power plant, because I think this would be completely inappropriate. However, it is a fact that we, the Slovenian side, of course, discussed the appropriateness or inadequacy of individual proposed solutions with the leadership of the Krško nuclear power plant during the negotiations. You say there were no answers to the letter of 11.9. That's already been answered by the Prime Minister, and I would still like to say that. More of these letters came. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as well as the government, responded to some of them. But it's true that they were all very similar to each other. I know he wrote us the world of the province of Posavia in the establishment, and we answered them. But there were very similar questions in these letters. So maybe we didn't answer everything. It is undeniable, however, that we have tried to respond strictly to these initiatives. We also went personally to Krška when there was a discussion within the local community and later within the municipal council, explaining everything that was just required. Because I'm running out of time, just for a little while. You claimed that there was no offer to buy - no, you didn't. You claimed it was an agreement between the governments, not an agreement between the countries. That's where we need to know the law. Of course, the agreements which are ratified between the two countries are agreements which are state-owned, no matter what the title says. But that's all I want to say for the end. The government has made its decision. Now the National Assembly is on the move. I think the worst thing for the Republic of Slovenia is to postpone the decision. There are various initiatives to put it all behind us. Whether that is the case or not, it must be made and, of course, the responsibility must be taken. The government already has it. The national council is on the move.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	They now have the word of a Member, and not more than 5 minutes to present their views. First of all, he has the word of his colleague Podobnik, who will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, ministers, fellow Members of Parliament! The government negotiating team, when negotiating the terms of the Interstate Treaty on the Krško Nuclear Power Plant, did not do a bad job. Mag. Korje and his team, including with the help of the Minister, have worked hard. This was also the position that I myself said at several closed meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy. But in all areas, it failed. There are some elements in this interstate treaty that oblige us, as responsible Members of the National Assembly, to talk about them in this place. All three Slovenian People's Party ministers voted against ratification when voting in the government on this issue. We also have the mandates of our party's authorities not to support ratification. However, we are open to debate and a key issue is raised in the dialogue in three areas where, in our view, an international agreement is poorly negotiated for the Republic of Slovenia. The first area, the contract does not provide an adequate solution to the problem of decommissioning the Krka nuclear power plant and disposal of radioactive waste and spent fuel and thereby adequate environmental protection. They've talked a lot about this. Also, Mr. Minister has already responded. Another area here is that it is important to understand that Croatia or any other country cannot be bound by an international treaty to take over spent fuel and radioactive waste, as a so-called force higher than it once was in a neighbouring country: this is opposition to the public. Croatia already has the function of 'protection against ionising radiation', which in Article 36 defines that it is not possible to import, process, store and dispose of radioactive waste that is not produced in the Republic of Croatia. The second argument, which was already here, which is very important, is an argument for governance and decision-making. If I hadn't said it again, I'd have continued where the minister ended up. Where the President of the administration, who is a representative of the Slovenian State, uses a deciding vote, he shall immediately request the President of the Supervisory Board to convene his meeting, which shall address the eligibility of the use of the deciding vote and adopt an appropriate solution. However, such a decision-making system is unclear and could quickly lead to a standstill when a decision cannot be taken. Last but not least, these are near experience in the operation of the Krško nuclear power plant. The decision by consensus has survived the formula even in classical companies, not only in an organization where members have different interests. The lack of clarity, conflict and inefficiency in governance is unacceptable to the nuclear facility and can also be linked to the nuclear safety issue of this facility. The third area, which is primarily a legal area, is the view that the contract exempts the Krška nuclear power plant from the legal system of the Republic of Slovenia and thus introduces its extraterritoriality in some way. Analysis has been made that several Slovenian laws, which are disregarded by this Treaty: the Law on Economic Companies, the Law on the Cooperation of Workers in Management, the Law on Employment of Foreigners and the Law on Foreigners, certain regulations in the field of the electricity market, the newly adopted energy law, the Law on Public Procurement, the Law on Funding for the Construction of the Krk Nuclear Power Plant and for the disposal of radioactive waste. We are aware, of course, that the Interstate Treaty may contain provisions derogating from other legislation, since the international conventions are in the hierarchy of legal acts over laws, but are constitutional. There is no doubt, however, that the exemption of this facility from the Slovenian legal system and the narrowing of its economic autonomy would constitute an infringement of the constitutional right of equality before the law provided for in Article 14 of the Constitution and the free economic initiative provided for in Article 74 of the Slovenian Constitution. Such an intervention is not necessary in our view and is not appropriate in terms of its content, since the final objective of the status regime, regardless of the nature of the business relationship, is the safe and smooth operation of the Krka nuclear power plant and the environmentally acceptable degradation and management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. On the basis of these arguments, we will also, as Members, propose that the National Assembly or at least 30 of its members take advantage of the business option and turn to the Constitutional Court to decide only this substantive question of the compatibility of this international treaty with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party parliamentary group, colleague Jelinčič and up to 5 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The agreement on nuclear power between Slovenia and Croatia again showed how incompetent Slovenian politics and the Slovenian government are. The fact is, incompetence is evidence. After all, Mr Vladimir Ibler, a great legal expert, unfortunately on the Croatian side, announced in his interview this year that Dr. Janez Drnovšek is misleading the Slovenian public because he simply does not know what the word initialling means. And then Mr Ibler cites the text from the diplomatic dictionary, the original in German and then the Croatian translation. This is the way it works in Slovenia, as the Slovenian government deals with unpleasant issues of opposition Members, because the position raises only pleasant and beautifully-sounding questions. The fact is that the agreement for Slovenia is extremely harmful. Considering only that the import of radioactive waste and any waste radioactive material and the operation and storage of these wastes is prohibited in Croatia, unless this has occurred in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, this has already been said. It is said what gentlemen between Croatia and Slovenia agreed in that 5th point of the talks when they talked about radioactive waste and when they agreed that the location in the Krko nuclear power plant would be used for the temporary storage of low and medium radioactive waste until the end of the life of the power plant. Then why are you lying to us about what you're going to do and where you're going to take everyone? And then you keep saying that if we don't find a common solution, it'll stay that way until 2025, and then we'll keep looking for a solution. What solution? And if we look at the amount of radioactive waste, there are about 250 tons of highly radioactive waste and about 10,000 barrels of low and medium radioactive waste already in Krk. Who's gonna take them? Or are you waiting for the next government to come after you to clean up the mess you've made in ten years? Things are more exciting than anyone can think. This is not how state policy is done, and this is not how something good is done for the Republic of Slovenia. I understand, Prime Minister, that he is leaving the Chamber now, because I know it is difficult to listen to someone telling him the mistakes he has made in his time of rule. And yet these errors are infinite, "innumerable", and I will not list the laws already made by colleague Podobnik, which are in conflict with this contract, which in fact in our opinion is in favour of Croatia but not in favour of Slovenia. The Slovenian national party has already made proposals to give the people around it so-called ecological compensation for waste in Krk and yet no one has accepted it. Moreover, Mr Secretary of State of the Golob even said on television that no one has ever proposed anything like this. At the same time, we provide compensation if ordinary waste is stored close to the residences of the Slovenians. What are we doing here? Maybe you're counting on radioactivity not to be seen. Gentlemen, it feels! The whole world is aware of this, except our Slovenian government does not, or it cares so much about what happens to Slovenians and Slovenians in the next 10 years, 15 years, 50 years. They'll think we'll take care of our kids, but the rest of us don't care. Only this agreement could be spoken of by a person for at least two hours and for two hours would he list mistakes and malicious changes and solutions against Slovenia and for the benefit of the neighbouring Republic of Croatia. This is how sometimes a person assumes the idea that the Slovenian government could be renamed Croatian, but I do not think that such bad governments would be taken by Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you, Comrade Jelinčič. The next representative of the parliamentary group, who wants the floor, is colleague Anderlich. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	In fact, this debate is proof that it is possible to abuse the institute of questions sent at a time when a question is on the agenda of the national assembly and is not being discussed in the context of the procedure, but rather, in order to achieve a probably populist purpose, to avoid the procedure and to avoid the situation where the debate is not announced in advance; so what question will be raised and also to suggest that public consideration of this issue will be proposed in a situation where we have the procedure - and I suppose that, when the first option available to the Committee on Foreign Policy is that this proposal will also be addressed and only by way of addressing such initiatives after the procedure, after the law of the end, it is possible to answer all questions. For the problem is for the first time so many years since an agreement with Croatia was concluded that we will build a nuclear power plant, as well as, of course, all events in later years to the independence of both countries and so on. If we do not want to intimidate the public with any threats, I do not know what the government is supposed to do, the negotiators and I do not know who else, then, of course, such issues must be addressed in the context of a procedure responsible first in the home labour body and then in the national assembly. I understand that every moment should be taken advantage of, that the Government should be aware of what it has done wrong, that it is not aware of its responsibilities in all of this, and that the fact that the law has imposed on the Committee on Foreign Policy what it is to do in the procedures for ratifying international treaties is certainly the fact that the Committee on Foreign Policy has been empowered, on behalf of the National Assembly, to do so on its behalf. I am quite sure, but at that time I did not have the opportunity to verify that all those who are discussing this agreement so gallantly today, what it was like, then, to make these comments, in my memory, is so, in this way, and it was clear. We would use things, the Slovenian country, the local community - among other things - and in particular because obviously all these things, especially here is the most vehement Slovenian People's Party with the mayor of Krske at the head, who has cooperated all the time, now asks questions before the end, which should or should have been answered more or less at the beginning. We do not want to upset citizens and citizens, the existence and functioning of a nuclear power plant poses a potential threat to this environment and to both countries, but probably to something wider, even though I believe all the reports we receive each year from the relevant nuclear security monitoring institutions. It is therefore irresponsible that we Members, so to speak, sow the most doubts, but we have the greatest opportunity to monitor the report through the monitoring; and even more, we can ask the relevant authorities to report in more detail to us to hire another foreign institution to verify the safe operation and so on. Our common concern is probably to take care of the disposal of nuclear waste in the future, not to accuse each other here, who could, who should, and so on. Regardless of all, if this is an opportunity for the government to be able to see this and the other, and that this is so to speak, not interpolation, but what some of the government's accusations here are, it is not responsible for us to take advantage in this way in the stage of dealing with the agreement, which will certainly be on the agenda for this month on the Committee, to use the Institute of Parliament's questions in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	Would any of the other MPs want it? Please, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Of course, when you run out of arguments, you blow up a bunch of false stories. And that's what my predecessor, Mr Anderlič, has done, that they've worked together all the time, he's also mentioned the krishna mayor, because I know that no one in the local community has ever cooperated with him, and the agreement that was adopted and initialled was a fact that was no longer able to amend and not change, so it's a pure lie and a deception that was able to co-create and influence solutions. However, our responsibility is - and this is not a intimidation - our responsibility as Members of this National Assembly is to make an argument to draw attention to the bad, unacceptable points of this agreement. It's our responsibility. It is your responsibility to write such an agreement, which will benefit Slovenia, not to the detriment. The Prime Minister here warned that the Croatian side is not ready to accept worse solutions than they are now. Why do we have to take worse solutions than we do now? Minister Digger states that what is now and that the agreement is better. Now it is so that the Slovenian side receives 100 per cent electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant and, of course, it will have to deal with radioactive waste and decomposition sooner or later. And we don't want anything from the Croatian side, just that if they're receiving half the energy, they're at the same time depriving the funds to solve these issues. But not that they are now receiving electricity without it and, of course, they provide it later. Radioactive waste will lie in Krk for the rest of its life. The resolution and lawsuits, which are so evident to Minister Kopač, will be on the shoulders of our craftsmen - not one generation, but probably another generation after us. I would also like to warn you, I am very sorry that there is no prime minister, but I, on purpose, wanted to ask the Prime Minister this question, because when this law is on the agenda, the Prime Minister will not be here. And that's why this debate is here today, and it's not like we're doubling another debate, because then there's not going to be a premiere. I would like to know how the Prime Minister would comment on the theft that Minister Kopač said several times in the public media that the Slovenian side had stolen Croatian electricity when it was turned off. That's what they say. Directly, the Prime Minister of the Government, the Prime Minister, accused the thefts. I'm interested in the Prime Minister's answer to that question. These are very simple, easy statements by the Slovenian Minister: that the Slovenian government has stolen Croatia. These are statements that have been repeated several times in the media. Last time I was on the show, I was there myself. In short, we're actually going to have to take care of radioactive waste. This is our responsibility, including through international treaties and ratified conventions, and not least for decommissioning. All we want is for those who receive electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant to co-finance these problems in parallel, but not to translate it into later. These are key unacceptable points. Another, I think the most unacceptable point that Minister Kopač has also commented is management. Management as provided for in the contract shall be based on agreement. If the country has different business interests with the facility, of course, the administration will operate in a diametric manner and will draw each of them together. Such an administration does not lead to development, but to stagnation. The stagnation of a nuclear facility also means a stagnation of nuclear safety. No one's gonna convince me that's not the case. And this is very controversial, very questionable and long-term unacceptable for the Slovenian side. I would also point out that it is not true, Comrade Jelinčič, that no one has ever talked about compensation for the presence of these radioactive wastes. My fellow Member, Branko Kelemina, introduced the law on rent for the Krška nuclear power plant years ago, in the previous term. The matter has never been preconceived, debated, and it has never been a desire to find the right solutions. In short, a lot of unresolved issues arise with this object. The Slovenian side, unfortunately, gives way to Croatian sides. You are the Slovenian side, of course also at the expense of the budgetary burdens of the next generation, here is a pit of doom. Why? What for? I do not think that this is necessary and this was an introductory, basic question to the Prime Minister why the government has sent Parliament to ratify the agreements, why it is forcing this if the interstate issues that need to be resolved have not been resolved; it is probably also due to a rather volatile political situation in neighbouring Croatia and, of course, to some politically unfavourable climate to solve such problems. However, at this point, why push for solutions that are bad for the Slovenian side and, of course, also burden our taxpayers and future generations. And, of course, it is inappropriate to resolve the key issue, a key issue for Slovenia and for Posavia, this is the storage of radioactive waste. This would be our responsibility, but not solved by this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. That was a fellow magician. A visor. He presented the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. On behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, colleague Janko Weber. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you for your word. Surely this agreement is one of the more difficult acts to prepare and coordinate or to be coordinated and prepared by the Government. We, as a parliamentary group, have already, through the question of the mission, pointed out in particular the handling of nuclear waste, and we have recently asked very concretely about the possibilities for storing these nuclear wastes in other countries that already have this problem. It was also somehow an answer that, of course, this question was extremely complicated, even on the financial side, and that it would be done after this wage analysis. In this agreement, we are also concerned, somehow, that this issue, which is clearly quite clearly stated, will not introduce any new taxes and contributions that would burden the costs of electricity produced, is one of those issues that will probably need to be analysed even more carefully and really looked at how to actually get to the relevant sources, especially in order to address the problem of waste and also the safe operation of a nuclear plant. Regardless of how management is actually envisaged in the agreement, the fact that we are certainly responsible to the international public as Slovenia for the safe operation of this nuclear power plant. Finally, this was also one of the issues that we somehow had to explain and resolve in these procedures for integration into the European Union. We also expect very clear answers that this agreement will not make it difficult to integrate into the European Union, because any reduction in the safety of the nuclear power plant would certainly put us in a very disadvantaged position. I think it is necessary, and I think, in some way, to do so, even as a parliamentary group in the environment, where this power plant is installed, that coordination is in fact essential, both local interests - in this case I think that we can even talk about regional interests, because it is a wider area, although this area, which may be affected mainly by the poor operation of the nuclear power plant, is extremely wide, but nevertheless; direct communication with the public is likely to be necessary, especially because it is possible to resolve those long-term solutions that we are dealing with in Slovenia, in particular through an analysis of areas where it is possible to also carry out radioactive waste storage. And if, in the very area where the nuclear power plant is installed, these relations are not well aligned with the local community or with the toregia, it is difficult to expect that in the long term we will be able to reach any suitable solutions in Slovenia. Thus, above all this debate, which we will certainly have at, in my opinion, a higher level when we have a regular hearing, if I say so, of this agreement, we expect more detailed explanations on all these issues; for today is also a somewhat limited debate and it is difficult to obtain, perhaps even a more detailed picture of all the steps of negotiations and decisions. However, we certainly expect this at a time when we will also talk about this either in the home working body, but probably also in the working body concerned, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, and, of course, not least at the meeting of the national assembly itself. However, I would also like to raise the question or point out that, given that somehow the possibility of joint adoption of this agreement has been suggested, both in Parliament and in our Parliament, the Government will try to check whether it will participate in these efforts that have been announced. However, I certainly do not agree with the government's response in the part where it says that when the agreement is brought to this stage, negotiated, the government has concluded its procedures. Of course that's not true. There is a lot of work to be done by the government, certainly in the implementation of this agreement. Among other things, this law, which has not been included on the agenda of this meeting today, is a law on protection against ionising radiation and nuclear safety, is one of the first laws to be very closely aligned with the agreement adopted. So we are waiting for an in-depth analysis of this agreement, as well as harmonised legislation, which will provide answers to both the local community and the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you very much, colleague Weber. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by my colleague Sok and, if I understand correctly, this is the last representative of the Group of Members. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear government officials! It is obvious, therefore, that there is a long and extensive debate in Parliament about this agreement, because we already have good principles for it today. I must say that as a member of the opposition, I am actually concerned about the various arguments that the parties to the ruling coalition are making here. And if discussions with the opposite party, with Croatia, have taken place in such a style, then of course this agreement can be of no benefit and it is indeed what some here repeat that the agreement is bad and harmful to Slovenia. Of course, we all know that the main burden of this agreement is being passed on to the future, I don't know, in 2025, because the most controversial part of this agreement has been the provision that speaks of how we will solve the common landfill of nuclear waste. I would like to remind you of 1993 when Slovenia was already trying to find some suitable sites for the disposal of nuclear waste in this country. I myself recall that there have been strong opposition in particular areas. So it was a whole series of rallies and, I would say, political opposition. I don't know how we're going to find this common solution when we're faced with the fact before that last date. I am sure that if it does occur - some of you are repeating and talking about exports and the like - if this solution arises, force will be expensive for this country. This is what New Slovenia is concerned about in this agreement and what the government should be aware of at this point in time when this communication took place. At this point in time, we believe that from each kilowatt electricity in a special giro account, we should collect funds that would then be available to address this problem. If that is not the case - and it is obvious that the agreement is not so concluded. So it is written that the government will agree at that time and that Croatia will take over its share of waste if no agreement is reached; therefore we are afraid that the full burden of this cost will fall on the citizens of that time. But we can certainly accept such an agreement, the government can propose something like this, because it counts that by 2025 it is still very far away and that someone will be able to resolve this problem by then. It should be noted, however, that this problem will then be a major force. For this reason, we also do not feel logical and - I would say - somehow in the spirit of expectation of Minister Kopač's statements when he says that there was no need to cooperate with the local communities because it was a state project, a state matter. That's not true! However this will be resolved, the local communities will, of course, to the greatest extent, because these local communities will have to bear the burden of storing these wastes by that date. It would be good for local communities to participate intensively in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Any of the other parliamentary groups would like to present their views? [[No, no, ……]] We then exhausted the opportunity to present the position of qualified applicants. As the matter of procedure was mentioned once again and since Minister Kopač also mentioned Parliament's responsibility in the ratification process, let me say that, given the position of all the members of the groups, the National Assembly is fully aware of this responsibility. Nevertheless, I propose that, in consultation with the government and certainly after consultations between the political groups, we come to an assessment of when to ratify, when to have a procedure and how to make a decision. On 11 June, a college will have a final say on whether or not to put this item on the agenda. Prior to that, consultations will be held and I would like to commit myself to having some very broad political support for the decision. We have thus exhausted the implementation of the point proposed by the Socialist Party's Group of Members. We are moving on with questions that will now be answered by government members or state secretaries. First of all, my colleague, the Grandchild. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The question is addressed to Minister Tonet Rope. Following a recent visit by the Prime Minister in the United States, we were able to see that the US Senate had passed a law under which Slovenia, as a candidate for entry into the union, had received $4.5 million in military assistance in support of integration and cooperation with other Member States. This move is commendable, even at a time when the balance of the state budget is also being drawn up. More interesting was the debate in the Senate itself when, above all, the Republican senators asked the Senate to invite other members and candidates to join NATO to follow the increase in the defence budget as the United States increased it. So we are going to have to increase, of course, the share of GDP for defence, and not in an artificial way, such as the requisition of purchasing a government aircraft or the anticipated purchase of police helicopters, but this increase will have to be exclusively designed for defence. We are also looking forward to reforming the Slovenian Army, which will not be cheap. As we join the European Union, we are asked by the European Union to settle some further open issues in the field of social and health care and to regulate stable public finances, of course we will not experience economic shock when we enter the European Union. And all of this requires extra funds. Therefore, of course, the question arises in itself whether we will be able to achieve all these new integrations without additional debt. The public debt has been increasing steadily from year to year and has been around 258 billion tolars by the beginning of this year. It is true that it has been reduced by subtracting the value of the state property sold, but there is a fear that we will be faced with all these requirements, which await us when we are involved in new integrations, of course quickly on old numbers, if not larger ones. That is why, of course, I would like to ask you, Mr Minister: Do you have a strategic programme of public debt repayment as a minister or financial ministry, and what are the main guidelines for this programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Mr Member for the question. So, as far as the situation related to the public financial obligations that still lie ahead of us and which are still ahead of us, I think there will be a very in-depth debate on this, while we will be adopting the 2002 budget rebalancing, and, of course, before the summer, there will be a debate on the 2003 budget and 2004 budget in line with the Public Finance Act. We will have the opportunity to go through all the new public financial commitments that are potentially possible and that we will have to decide together whether there are priorities in this country and at what speed we will continue to implement individual priorities. The public debt situation in Slovenia is such that it is slightly higher than 27% of gross domestic product, which is lower than in most Member States of the European Union. I can say that in Italy this was 110% in 2001, in France 58% of gross domestic product, in Finland 44, in France [[?]] 42, for example, in Ireland, which is one of the best in terms of public debt, 39. Of course, what worries is the trend of increasing public debt and adequate servicing. What we have set out in the 2002 and 2003 budget memorandum, if you look at the macro-fiscal scenario, is practically half of these programmes a programme to reduce public debt or reduce public debt growth in the coming years and also a plan to achieve this. Part of this plan is also the divestment of state assets and the reduction of public debt under this Title and the servicing under this Title. This year alone, if we succeed in the completion of the proposed privatisation programme only in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, the first and second stages, we will, in reality, create such a purchase that will reduce public debt by more than 10%, which is of course significant and important. What's going to happen next is hard to predict. Undoubtedly, if you look at the sales programme for financial and real property, you see that the total amount of potential purchases is more than 400 billion in the coming years, which means more than a third of the reduction in public debt in Slovenia, assuming public financial deficits, as assumed in the macro-fiscal scenario that was prepared. This calls for the need and the need to manage public finances, in particular to cope with the new public financial pressures that occur virtually every day, and we can hear new and new initiatives constantly. And, of course, each individual of these initiatives seems to be fully justified; these days, for example, in relation to telecommunications, it is certainly appropriate to consider and further consider what is in the area of income, since in these debates it has been demonstrated that 6 billion and a half incomes are not sufficient and that further recognition or recognition of reductions in such resources will be needed. As you know, the systemic changes to the Income Act involve even greater losses, about 23 billion, and of course this needs to be replaced by other public financial resources or with reduced expenditure - and the question arises in which areas. What we are doing in these days is to review the individual budgets of individual ministries and in those areas where we believe that saving is possible that this does not affect the priorities set by the government, but together we are trying to make savings. This is what I think we will do in most ways; and in our work we also review the individual balance sheets of public institutions - in the part where they have profits - and also there we provide additional, in particular, non-taxable resources. Some of this will happen, and you have recently passed a law amending the law on purchase, as you recall, and you have provided additional resources, for example for technological development, which I find to be extremely meaningful. This means that we have every opportunity to stabilise the fiscal situation this year, in 2002, and to ensure that the current deficit - one that is funded; we only have 11 months this year, I warn, funding and resources - ensure that this fiscal deficit is not significantly greater than 1, which is significantly better than in many countries in the European Union. As you know, for example, Germany is dealing with major problems, with a public deficit this year. This is because Germany is the most important external trading partner of Slovenia, more than 27% of our exports are going to Germany, and the public financial deficit estimated for Germany this year is 2.8 for example, and it is these days that Finance Minister Eichel announced additional losses of resources in the German federal budget. However, if we compare Slovenia - and these days I have had this opportunity at a special European Bank for Reconstruction and Development meeting in Bucharest - with other candidates, of course we are in a significantly better position right now. On average, candidates for entry into the European Union in 2002 have a slightly higher deficit than 5% of gross domestic product. Thus, of course, the public financial situation is practically exacerbated throughout Europe and all countries are, of course, dealing with rationalisation on the one hand, on the one hand, with public expenditure and on the other hand with public financial resources. As you may recall, the English finance minister recently suggested that health contributions should be increased to cover part of his health expenditure and provide higher health care in the UK. And a few more such proposals are in Europe these days. In short, we estimate that all options are to ensure, through adequate asset management, a reduction in public debt in the coming period and to release part of public finances, in particular in the part where we are talking about public debt servicing costs for other developmental purposes, which will be of exceptional importance in 2003 and in particular in 2004. That's what I'm trying to say. Together with Banka Slovenije, we will prepare a special group or we are already negotiating - and in this regard, the Ministry of Finance has also strengthened staff - on the privatisation purchase project. In such a way that they do not affect the raising of the rate, the appreciation of the tolar, of course the interest rates and the negative economic growth; of other words, that they do not actually achieve through this programme what has happened in many Eastern European countries in order to finance the purchase through the influx of tolar appreciations. This could potentially happen. This is how we deal with these problems actively and will further explain these issues in the light of the changed circumstances in the draft budget of 2003/2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Complementary question? Mr. Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank the Minister for his comprehensive response. I would like to add to the question, especially when you mentioned the reserves that are and I am pleased that you will focus more attention on other areas. That is why I also asked which guidelines, because it is particularly worrying that on the table, for example, on the bench, we get a law, which provides for the reduction of some of the rights already acquired - for example, this new income proposal, which will mainly affect the most working active population, is a young and medium generation. And here I think that the country, regardless of these favourable indicators in this direction, would have to provide conditions for the quality of life of those on whose shoulders public debt will be rectified. That's why I think, and that's why I wanted to know here, what are those areas? I hope that you will not be prejudiced here to the already acquired rights primarily by a generation that will have to generate income and save public debt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you. I mentioned a short income earlier. I think that the position of the National Assembly, including Mr Puck, is right that yet another consideration or one thought on this subject is worthwhile. Because suspicion of sumars here is a proposal on the table that provides tax relief amounting to 6.5 billion. Undoubtedly. Of course, if there are views and opinions that the distribution of these funds would be valid to be otherwise prepared and possibly increased, then we must, in my opinion, have a very thorough discussion. However, not only about income; what seems extremely important to me is that then the whole system of transfers, households, child allowances, allowances, in short, the whole family policy should be looked at, if you want, and that we should look at how it is particularly addressed in this context for families with more children and families at risk. And it is clear that the social criterion must be substantially taken into account in social transfers, while, of course, in the area of taxes, this is usually less proportionate to social criteria. However, we will probably find some solution that will go this way, in particular to those families that have the largest number of children that are actually most valuable, if you want, for Slovenian society, but especially to treat. And I believe we could find satisfactory solutions in this direction. Otherwise, in its entirety, Mr Puck's proposal was well-intentioned. It brings tax reliefs, but it is now worth further considering, preparing for the next meeting of the National Assembly and coming up with concrete solutions that will, of course, satisfy wider circles. However, it is likely that we will never, and never will, satisfy all of us, and never will there be enough relief to cover all these interests to the end. But I believe we can find better solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you. Mr. Bojan Kontic has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honourable representative and representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, question to the Ministry or the Minister of Finance. In order to enforce the claims and to settle the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia and legal and natural persons from the territory of the Republic of Slovenia in the process of dividing the assets, rights and obligations of the SFRJ, the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was established under the law for Success. The last success of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia was observed when the Director of the Fund presented in more detail the decision of the marketing court concerning the request of Croatian savers concerning the Ljubljana Bank. Article 5 of this Act sets out the tasks of the Supervisory Board, i.e., quote: "The Fund shall have a Supervisory Board of five members appointed by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Supervisory Board shall monitor the legality of the work and the financial functioning of the Fund. The Supervisory Board shall report at least once a year on the operation of the Fund to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." - end of quote. In accordance with this Article, the National Assembly appointed the members of the Supervisory Committee of the Fund of the Republic of Slovenia for its success a year ago by decree, which has not yet met. I ask the Ministry of Finance: Why is the law not consistently implemented? And: Does he have any current data on the operation of this fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you so much for asking. I do not have accurate data at this time, we will certainly find out and demand that the law is also enforced normally and that the Supervisory Committee, which has been appointed, is immediately convened and that everything necessary to enable it to function, is also given to it on the table. In short, we'll make sure of that immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you. Mr. Kebrich is away, Mr. Dorian Marshich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, distinguished members of the government. My question is addressed to the Minister for the Information Society, but given that I do not see him here, it will be okay for the Secretary of State to answer. I have put this question before the hearing - both to the President's candidate and to Dr Paul Gantar - on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment before taking up the post of Minister. The question, however, relates to the issue of broadcasting frequencies, to television, and in particular to radio stations that have been "hanging in the air" for so long, which have not been solved, especially in relation to our western neighbour Italy. Given the very restrictive policy of broadcasting radio frequencies in Slovenia in the past and, on the other hand, the very uncontrolled distribution of these in Italy, the border area at our western border, and sometimes very deep in Slovenia's territory, the frequency space is extremely disrupted by the powerful broadcasters of Italian radio stations. Thus, national television and radio programs are so disturbed that their viewing or listening is disabled or very difficult, despite the payment of the subscription. But there are also, of course, regional and commercial RTV houses which, due to the restrictions imposed by our country, cannot cover the same area under the same conditions as the media elsewhere in Slovenia and, given the near elimination of the border, will otherwise find themselves in an unequal position with competition in Italy. I am interested, given that we have already adopted the Telecommunications Act, that the relevant competent agencies have already been established: What will the Ministry do in the future to solve the problem definitively, and in particular to insist on the solutions that are already coordinated in Geneva, as far as frequencies are concerned? Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Please respond, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking. So, we are certainly aware of the problem and the Minister has recently visited Rome, met with the State Secretary of the Ministry of Telecommunications, and agreed that both Telecommunications and Broadcasting Agencies will meet briefly. With regard to the granting of licences, Slovenia has not issued them for some time and we will not issue them until the agreement is reached. As I mentioned, there will be this meeting shortly and we will inform you of all the details. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you. Mrs Maria Possonec has the following question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	I'm asking the Ministry of Environment and Space. Last week, two foreign independent experts in various locations across Slovenia measured the power of non-ionising radiation of base antenna stations [[Shortcut is BAP]] . I believe that the result of this measurement is flawed. I ask myself: Why is there such a high range in Slovenia between statutory radiation measurements and those that are actually harmful to health? For example, in humans, nervous and biological system disorders have already been demonstrated at 0.2 watts per square metre and we have a limit of 4.5 watts per square metre. I wonder, who's playing and shopping with our health? I also ask for an explanation as to why you have an urban and construction and electrical inspector if you allow them to make their decisions. The urban inspector from Ljutomer issued a decision to remove the tower of Vega system, which, as a blacksmith without a location and construction permit, is placed in the middle of the settlement of Dugovaška Gorica and is happily sown on all sides: on the children playing there, on the vegetables and fruits we are carefully growing, thinking that it is biologically impracticable. Moreover, the electrical inspector banned the connection to the network, but it arranged for the facility to receive electricity from the apartment house. It's a simple fraud, and in a state of law, I don't think that's supposed to be the case. There are extremely many cancers in Lendava and in the surrounding villages. Instead of exploring the causes of this situation, you can also provide the landscape with various antennas and incinerators. Do you want to destroy future generations? Do you only hear the gallon of tolars you get from the concession you share for buildings that are built without a building permit? And please just don't tell me about the harmless antenna in the middle of the settlement and not tell a bedtime story. I believe you are responsible for all citizens. And lastly, who will defend nature from the Ministry of the Environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I'm asking for the Minister's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The measurements made by two people from Germany at the invitation of the Slovenian Ecological Movement before the time across Slovenia have, of course, caused considerable public upheaval. In this regard, I think it is particularly important to stress that all measurements carried out so far, both by domestic authorised institutions and by foreign institutions, show that exposure to electromagnetic radiation is below the values set by the Slovenian Regulation, which, of course, also follows international recommendations. But more specifically later. At the same time, it should be pointed out that normal exposure to base stations in Slovenia is at least 100 times lower than the thresholds set by the Regulation. The limit values adopted in the European Union, as well as in other countries of the world, are based on the guidelines of the International Commission for the Protection against Unionised Radiation, which is an independent international group of scientists from various fields needed to assess scientific literature and identify health risks. These guidelines are also supported by the World Health Organization. On the basis of these guidelines, however, a number of countries have adopted regulations or their own rules on limit values and some have also adopted an additional safety factor. There are only three in Europe: Slovenia, Italy and Switzerland. So they followed some preventive principle in the adoption of a regulation or regulation that is stricter than what is internationally recognised as admissible. Thus, in 1996 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a regulation on electromagnetic radiation in the natural and living environment. This specifies the maximum permitted levels of electromagnetic radiation and specifically foresees that in the most sensitive areas, such as the living environment and schools, kindergartens, hospitals, these are particularly stricter. These areas that I have listed require increased radiation protection and are therefore subject to ten times more stringent restrictions than in most other countries around the world. When we talk about base stations, this means that before the installation of each new base station, if of course it is built in accordance with existing acts, that is, if there is no black construction to determine a security area within which neither housing nor hospitals, nor schools, nor kindergartens, and on average those areas are twice as large as those in which limit values would be exceeded. These two experts, who have also been quoted by you in their own question, may also say to an expert in the narrative, argue that in the human body already radiation with density, flow of power, below 0.0001 watts per square metre can cause disturbances in the insomnia, weakness of the immune system and the emergence of diseases, and therefore advocate the introduction of limit values which are several hundred times lower than those scientifically justified. The Section for Unionised Radiation at the Ministry of Health also rejected the starting points, opinions and conclusions of these two Germans and, in short, their claims that the radiation loads in the vicinity of the base stations in the people's accessible cities are greatly exceeded and directly harmful to health. I would also like to point out that the Faculty of Electrical Engineering carried out a targeted study on the state of the environment with electromagnetic radiation in Slovenia. She did this together with the Slovenian Institute of Quality and Metrology. And this study shows that radiation loads due to the widespread radio, television and other telecommunications signals in the natural and living environment are usually higher than the thresholds proposed by these two Germans. In addition to restoring the thresholds proposed by these two, of course they would have returned society at least 100 or 200 years ago, but would have no positive health effects. Of course, it is not too much to point out that their suggestions are not being followed in any European Union country. And I am sure that even in Slovenia, the profession can firmly insist on its positions, which, I stress, are now formally represented by a regulation that is, as far as the limits are concerned, stricter than in most European Union countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for the statement or reply of Minister Kopač. Would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	I was specifically talking about the tower in Dugovaska Gorica. It's in the middle of a settlement. Well, then, by your standards, not in a good location. And the fact that your inspector has issued, I mean the demolition warrant, and you're legalizing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	I'm asking for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Yes, I am informed that the inspector has issued a demolition decision as well as for many other such devices throughout Slovenia. We're also doing these executions. It is true that with some relatively slow pace, of course, there is not enough money for all of this. After all, this has to pay the budget. But the fact is that many of these base stations, including this particular one you are talking about, Ambassador Possončeva, are in the phase - investors, in short, want to legalize these things. The procedure for issuing the building permit is indeed run by the Ministry of Environment and Space, but believe me, the Minister is not able to interfere with the procedure and that it is done by a fully independent service within the Ministry, which has no contact with the Minister or the Cabinet of the Minister. And if the role is complete - I don't know what it is like in this particular case - if, in short, everything that needs to be attached is attached, then the ministry can't refuse the role or simply say that it won't give permission if all the conditions are met. But I don't know what stage this particular role is for this base station you're asking me about.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. The following question will be asked by Member Janez Podobnik. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With my question I am returning to the foreign policy area, about which we have already crossed swords in the National Assembly today, and I expect that one of the government representatives who may be somewhere in the government premises in Parliament will come. The question of dispatch is related to the question of the Gulf of Piran. Is the position of Slovenian foreign policy, which advocates the fact that, by initialling the border agreement between Slovenia and Croatia for us, the negotiations have been concluded, abstaining, on the fact that the opposite party has practically deviated from the agreement? The self-sufficiency of such a holding is particularly dangerous when messages from Zagreb are sent to see one of the possible solutions in the arbitration. In doing so, it endorses the intervention of its citizens in the Gulf of Piran. These interventions are contrary to agreements and agreements between countries. If I list only some: planting shell crops, almost daily incidents with Slovenian fishermen, or concession Ini for researching gas and oil deposits in the northern Adriatic. Today, the central Slovenian daily surprised us, that is, when in three articles on the back, he spoke in separate articles about these issues: Croatia would seek oil in the Piran Bay, Kardelj really mixed Drago and Mirno, Croats for a change of circumstances. Very significant, therefore, three different articles on the eminent back of the work. Does this not indicate that this is a policy of making favourable assumptions, since in the event of arbitration, the Croatian side would also come up with these facts, which our party does not sufficiently or less strongly oppose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you for asking me that question. Please, by the government, who will answer this question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	Your Honor! As on-call ministers today, I am obliged to inform you that the next 20 minutes, and also from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, unfortunately, no one is present for the right reasons. The Ministry will provide a written response.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to ask an additional question, given that there was no answer? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	I accept with understanding Dr. Kebra's argument, Minister on duty. Of course, the circumstances are such that they require a much faster response than a written reply to the Member. I am sure that Slovenian diplomacy will respond within all the powers and powers it has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you. Dr. Michael Brejc will ask the next question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	Thank you very much. On 27 February this year, I asked the government what it intends to do or what programme it has on electrifying those areas of Slovenia that do not have electricity today. On the one hand, the government boasts that eGovernment is becoming increasingly important, government meetings are of an e-nature; on the other hand, we stress the importance of information and communication technology on the one hand, and on the other is a range of areas in Slovenia where they do not have electricity. In particular, I stated in my letter the Nano Planet, where, as is known, a beautiful part of the settlements does not have electricity. Of course, these are not the only places in Slovenia without electricity. The Vipava municipality has prepared an appropriate programme and has also provided certain resources to help people on this planet, but there are no answers from the government. However, given that some activities are under way concerning the so-called 'green electricity' of windmills and so on, it would be really urgent and right for the government to answer my question from February only. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you for asking me that question. May I have your answer, Minister Digač?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. The answer was really sent about two or three weeks ago, and the government replied in writing today, so that I can read your answer. However, the question was put in writing and it was also answered in writing. Just for a little while. In order to electrify, the public undertaking, specifically in the area of public enterprise Elektro Primorska, does not rule directly, but governs through a public company which has public authority to do so. Well, the fact is that this public company has certain plans to electrify this area. However, as regards the establishment of wind power plants, which was actually the second part of your question, although it was not an explicit question, but was somehow merely indicated, let me say that we are preparing this moment of changes to the State Spatial Plan, which we will submit to Parliament, I hope that as soon as possible - we have some problems with the services within the Ministry because of their not very rapid response - and when you have this in Parliament, you too, Members, will decide, on a proposal from the government, to place wind power plants at individual locations in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you, Secretary Digger. Do you want to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	Thank you very much for this answer and for the incredible speed of the government that works under the conditions of e-government and takes a few months to respond in writing. But, well, what am I supposed to say to people there? When are they gonna get the power? When will they finally have the opportunity to stop polluting air with these generators, or as it is said, when will they have the same conditions as other citizens of Slovenia. That's what I'm interested in, not what we Members will get here from the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I also ask for this answer from Minister Kopač.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	At the moment, I do not have a specific plan of activities or electrification plans carried out by the public company Elektro Primorska. Of course, I can get an extract from their business plan and send it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Rupl, whether he wishes to answer the question of fellow Member Janez Spožnik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I am answering the question of the Member of Mr Podobnik. This question is to say, as you know, on the agenda of our ministry and as you know, I have repeatedly answered it publicly or a question that is at least partly related to what you have said. The essence of your question concerns relations between Slovenia and Croatia related to the border agreement. This agreement, as the Prime Minister said at the beginning of today's session, was agreed, confirmed by both governments, the two heads of government made statements, and was initialled. So for us, it's an international fact. On his visit to Slovenia, Foreign Minister Picula officially stated that the government is still insisting on this agreement and that it is waiting for the appropriate time to be completed, so to speak, to conclude or to bring it into its full form. Well, in the foreign ministry, we are dissatisfied with what is happening around this agreement, but we still have confidence in the Croatian government, because we must have such confidence. With regard to the individual incidents mentioned in your question, the foreign ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has responded to each of these questions or to each of these incidents. As for shellfish, as far as seabed exploration is concerned, there is documentation, there are notes, there are responses from the opposite party, which, in most cases, I must say, are not entirely satisfactory. However, the foreign ministry, together with the other ministries of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, will endeavour to maintain relations between Slovenia and Croatia, these two neighbouring countries, for which these relations are extremely important, intact by speculation, manipulation, political passions and so on, which is often very difficult to achieve, and we have such hope. As far as arbitration is concerned, we are not thinking about it so far, because, as we say, it is a fact for us, some key fact of our relations is the agreement that the government has adopted, declared, initialled and so on. So, once again, we hope that this temporary disturbance, which may be related to some internal political developments in the neighbouring country, will end as soon as possible and that therefore the strategic interests of these daily trifles would not be affected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Bevk has a word that I don't see in the hall right now. Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government officials! My question is primarily addressed to the government and perhaps indirectly to the Ministry of Culture, Education, Science, Youth and Sport. It is related to the proposal for a law on the use of Slovenian as an official language, the draft of which was drafted in 1996, six years ago. It was first published in the Rapporteur in 2000 and today in 2002, six years passed, and when the mother labour body was to consider the proposal for a law on the use of the Slovenian language, the proposal from the mother labour body fell out and the agenda for the meeting of the National Assembly began today. Let me say that this is a proposal for a law on the use of Slovenian as an official language for the implementing law of constitutional provisions. These are basic constitutional provisions which speak Slovenian as a national language. We have more than 50 laws in our legislation, which are more or less bound to the position of the Slovenian language, and all are unadapted, uncoordinated. And what's going on? For three years, he had been married. In the meantime, foreigners have been included in the Slovenian language in such a way that even Slovenian workers in a Slovenian company must, where owners of foreigners, write a request, say for a holiday, in a foreign language. Worse. Legislation that is supposed to be in line with European legislation, as they say, provides for foreigners who can operate in Slovenia to come to Slovenia in their own language. Worse yet, they will even need to translate contracts in order to be able to make decisions. Certainly, a foreign language entered all the seasons of life. However, we hear that we are xenophobic because we see that there is too much foreign language in Slovenia, although I would argue that xenophobic are those who claim it because in Slovenia there is not enough Slovenian language. However, since time is running out, there is much more to say, I will ask the government: Why was the proposal withdrawn from the meeting of the home work force and the meeting of the national assembly? The proof that the government is involved in this is also today's proposal for the next three sessions, in which this law is not even mentioned, even though the mother labour body has promised that this law will be dealt with immediately and that the proposal by the President of the National Assembly has been included and the proposal by the Government has been released again. So why are we delaying this marriage? Why is this marriage six years old? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you so much for asking. Who will answer this question from the government? Perhaps Dr. Baskovich, please? Excuse me, Mr. Secretary? I don't know. Ah, Mr. Baskovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member. Messengers and Members! I would like to say that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been called on by the National Assembly to give an opinion on the proposal for a law, will briefly say that the Slovenian language which the Council of State and not the Government have given in the procedure of the National Assembly has not yet finalized this opinion. However, she called on the competent office for the Slovenian language, which is a government body, and, of course, the Ministry of Culture, to prepare a proposal, which would then go into inter-departmental treatment and government definition. However, since I was present at this meeting alone because of another point, the law on culture in the public interest, as I understood it, did not have a written opinion on this proposal in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. However, of course, we are not responsible here to explain matters, but you must speak in the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you. Even the secretary general, did you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	Well, maybe just a sentence, thank you very much, but I think the Secretary of State said that. The legislative procedure shall not be the subject of a decision by the Government. The government has not withdrawn this law and does not object in any way to the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you. Complementary question, Mr Barovic, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much to both speakers or both representatives, both the ministries and the governments that responded to me. But I said it myself, I'm not saying the government withdrew it, but she didn't propose it. That's one. Second. I know it's the State Council who, unfortunately, is the State Council who proposed this law. I would expect it to be proposed by the Slovenian government. Complementary question. In the information I have from representatives of certain ministries directly linked to the Slovenian National Party, it is in certain laws relating to European legislation that they will provide for the elimination of so-called discrimination, as we require in Articles 7 and 8 of the proposal of this Act that everyone employed in Slovenia is the basis and condition for the employment of the Slovenian language; all legislation that is being prepared excludes it. Therefore, I wonder whether there is anyone here who would say, if that is true, fair and frank, that paragraphs 7 and 8 of this proposal are the ones who disturb them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	The government doesn't want an answer. Thank you very much. Mr Mario Gasparini has the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear government officials! Before that, I thought I would ask the Minister of Transport and Communications a question, but I think it is better that I address my question to the Minister for European Affairs. It's about roads, I mean, traffic connections west-east. We know well that Slovenia is interested in two corridors, 5 and 10. I also know and we all know that the 5th corridor is a priority for Slovenia. And that's how we decided. We also know the position of the European Community, which has given priority to the 10th Corridor, and of course 5. It will wait, some say 15 years. I know that today or tomorrow there will be a European Community delegation in Slovenia in Italy, where they will probably try to push this 5th corridor forward somehow. But what worries me is something else. The marketing newspapers announced that Slovenia is actually giving priority to the 10th corridor. So just a quick question: Is this true? Are we still at the 5th corridor - what we set ourselves to do is to make it a priority, or have we now somehow turned our backs on it and now we want that northern Alpine transport corridor? That's all I want to ask. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Potočnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I really did not say again that I would answer this question because this is a typical question of the question of whether the 5th or 10th corridor is the one that is the priority. I think that the changes in priority, as far as I know, are not; but I also referred a similar question a while ago to the Minister, whether anything is going on with the 5th Corridor. According to the information we have from Brussels, this should remain a priority and also with us. So it was in a dispatch we got about 14 days ago. But I would really like to see that this is a question that is being addressed by the Secretary of State because it is the right one.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	On behalf of the Ministry of Transport, I would like to answer the question raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	Can you introduce yourself, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	My name is Prince Matjaž, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Transport. I will give a brief answer to the question raised: there is no change in priority. Things are like they were set up before. For us, the priorities of the national programmes remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you. Complementary question, Mr Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you. Just for a little while. Who represents Slovenia today on the Commission Italy, the European Union, Slovenia? Can You Answer Me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	On the questions raised, unfortunately, I cannot give an answer. We'll give you a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you. Mr Peter Levič has the following word instead of Mr Štemberger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. A question for the Ministry of Health or anyone else. At its meeting on 9 May, the Government adopted a decision establishing new obligations with contracts to the burden of the state budget for the construction and purchase of fixed assets and investment transfers. At the same time, the government has temporarily suspended all new procurement procedures. These items include the pediatric clinic in Ljubljana, whose construction is expected to finally be glassed this year. The government has already announced the budget's rebalancing, and we anticipate that, in line with the conclusions it has adopted, it will reduce the funds earmarked for the purchase and construction of new core funds and for investment transfers. Such a suspension of new commitments to contracts under the State budget means, of course, that the paediatric clinic will not start building this year, as it will not be possible to launch a call for preparatory work and the funds allocated to this facility will be redeployed in this year's budget. I wonder: Does the rebalancing provide for a reduction in funds for investments in new health facilities, especially for the construction of a paediatric clinic, which after many years of complications, has finally moved from a dead point? The second question is: will this impact on the envisaged plan for the construction of a paediatric clinic this year due to the rebalancing of the budget and the current freezing of funds from the budget and the conclusion of contracts? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	Well, first of all, a general answer, honourable Member. Of course, the balance of the budget, which will also be subject to the Ministry, will dictate a reduction of certain items. On the inside, we have drawn up a proposal that will to the very least affect investments and will in no way affect investments that are a priority, namely a paediatric clinic and an oncological institute. In summary, I could say what may limit the pediatric clinic this year, not the lack of funds, but perhaps some still unresolved problems with the eviction of the population, with proceedings before European courts, with possible forced evictions. I would not go on with this, because we will also take the most fundamental steps in this area, and we are talking about this. In short, the pediatric clinic will start building this year. And money will not prevent us from taking advantage of this year to the extent that time permits us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A nice welcome to the members and members of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. I refer the question to the government, or more specifically to the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance, as a result. Indeed, the implementation of Article 3 of the Law on the provision of State aid to remedy the effects of last year's drought, cold and hailstorms. I ask the ministry: Why is the third paragraph of Article 3 not yet realized, which clearly states that the funds are provided in the 2002 budget and are also being realised by the end of April? By the end of April, only 8 per cent of the funds had been realised by the end of April, which would have actually had to be realised by the end of 2001. Indeed, following the decision of the Government which had been discussed at the end of April, it was found that 45,375 applications were made, that the State Commission had in fact found that only 15,781 applications met all the conditions, that a proposal to supplement the application would have to be submitted for 16,274 applications and that 13,320 applications were not in compliance with the conditions. In fact, the question is as follows. Last year's law has been directed in this direction to actually get help mainly from those farmers who are specifically engaged in agricultural activities and which are their main source of income. As a result, I actually find that many farmers had to take responsibility for the spring seed in order to carry it out and purchase other materials. In fact, the country is now significantly slowing down its commitment, and it is likely that only full applications will be made at least one month late. Indeed, as of today, May 21st, the beneficiaries who fulfil the full applications have not yet received the funds, not only those beneficiaries who will have to supplement the applications. I ask the Ministry of Environment and Space: Why has the State Commission not done its work within the necessary time limit so that they can also comply with the provisions of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you. I ask for your answer, Mr. Secretary Digač.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u144	Of course, the State Commission has tried to do its work within the deadline, but it is true that very many victims have submitted incomplete applications. These applications had to be supplemented or some of them complemented at this point. I can read you the latest data from today because I was expecting this kind of question sent, and the situation is this: The conditions for granting state aid under the drought law meet 18,150 injured people today. Of these, some over 15,000 already in the first round did not need to be complemented by an application, and those have also been submitted in due time by the state recovery commission as far as the decisions are concerned. I hear they haven't received the money yet, but the fact is that the food and credit service has already received this remittance from the Ministry of Finance. This, I hope, is the responsibility to say, because I also have information from the Ministry of Finance that a billion thirty-three million has been earmarked, specifically last week, that this money has not yet come from the food and credit service to the victims, but it will probably be very soon, in a day or two. Well, as far as the others are concerned, back to today. Following the verification of all applications, the State Commission for Recovery found that 14,339 injured persons definitely did not fulfil the conditions for the allocation of State aid resources and that, at 12.886, they were still in the process of verifying the supplement. In short, the roles weren't perfect, they were complementary, and of course now, I can say, day and night even review. The government is determined that as soon as a few hundred full applications are made, it will immediately decide on the allocation and then the Ministry of Finance will also immediately order it to the food and credit services. However, the government has fulfilled its obligation, at least as regards the treatment of complete applications, within the time limit. However, some problems have now arisen in the phase from the transfer to the receipt by individual beneficiaries. But I'm sure it'll all work out soon enough. We are right because of the frequent questions on the State Commission for Rehabilitation - well, it is not the Ministry of Environment and Space, after all, but it is the Interdepartmental - they have decided to start next week with an action called'suchaphone'. In short, everyone will be able to call and ask for himself or some specific information at certain times so as not to give a bad impression of how something that is in no way being solved and just misdirected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Complementary question, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you for that answer, Mr Minister, but still some of the data is not in line. In particular, for Lithuania's food and credit service, I can say that I have checked the data today, that the funds to remedy the effects of last year's drought have not yet been earmarked. And since this is a separate legal person, I can say that this was not the case in this particular case. Nevertheless, I would in fact point out once again that the necessary activities have begun too late in order to enable the law to be implemented within the envisaged deadline, which was also set for this. Indeed, the fact is that drought is also, in particular, a fundamental accident, one of those accidents that actually affects the direct income or income of the one who deals specifically with agricultural issues. This was also the purpose of all the amendments submitted by the Ministry to the law last year. In fact, any delay in obtaining the funds involved in this case represents additional inconveniences and problems that we know are still present in agriculture. In fact, I would like to ask that, first of all, in the case of the real transfer of funds of all the full deposits, these funds be transferred as soon as possible. And secondly, that in fact all imperfect roles are processed as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you. Mr Aloise Sok has the next word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u148	President, thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I don't know if Minister Bizjak or Minister Bohinc will answer my question. But the question is this. In the area of Ormož, there is an agrarian community of Frankovci, from the time of Mary Teresa. They have 46 members and, of course, this agrarian community was abolished in 1948. At that time, about 45 hectares of land were replied to. In 1994, these lands were returned and the agrarian community was reinstated. About 30 hectares were returned. The problem is that in these 40 years from the land area of this agrarian community, which were close to the Drava River, partly also in neighbouring Croatia, and are permeable, different - if I say so, authorities, from the municipality, local communities, then businesses, individuals, gathered - I could say - into 100,000 cubic metres of grammose and partly deposited construction materials on these pebble lands. In 1976 and 1997, about 30,000 cubic metres of grammosis were sold by the local community to the agrarian community of Frankovci, which is about 6 km of local road. And from the sale, the agrarian community set up a village home. Now, in 2002 - and here I would also like to raise a question in this regard against this agrarian community in the district court of Ptuj, investigative proceedings are under way to damage the country for so much and so much natural wealth. So here I would like to ask representatives of the government: Why do not similar investigative procedures actually take place against all those who have spent 40 years using these lands; those who, even at the time of the moratorium in 1993 and 1994, have a large amount of grammes? But those who have dug 30,000 cubicles are now in criminal proceedings. I also ask: How is this agrarian community supposed to repay these costs and with what means? Are we expected to sell a home that they built for themselves and with much work and renunciations? I would also ask: Why is the documentation seized in October 2001 not returned to them to date? And I would like to assure from the government representative that this is not a matter against Slovenian farmers, as is the case, perhaps politically motivated in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u149	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer. Which of the ministers will answer that question? Mr. Bizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u150	Mr Vice President, honourable Member! In fact, I could say a few general words about the procedures that you say these are running; of course, I am not aware of them. In the light of the rules governing such a criminal procedure, documentation may also be returned. I can only guarantee in general that I do not know of any politically motivated procedures. But before you introduced him here, I didn't get to know him. So there's nothing more I can say about a specific matter. Of course, such procedures are initiated by the State against those who have exploited natural resources without appropriate permission. Now, based on the findings of certain services, then perhaps a fellow digger could say something more.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u151	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Although I do not know this particular case, the fact is that the inspection for the environment and space in the past years, of course, I can say that it was quite unsuccessful to write the minutes and the decision to establish it in its original state, whenever it was pointed out that mineral raw materials were illegally pumped, it was mostly sand. However, the fact is also that last year the public defences launched a systematic campaign of persecution, I can say, on the judicial path of all those who were discovered in the inspection proceedings. This is their independent action, which otherwise has nothing to do with the government directly. In fact, I think there may be some apparent illogicalities that need to be addressed. For I can say that, as far as I have understood from the means of public information, 4.3 billion tolars have been invested, which is a very large amount, the demand for recovery of the equivalent of the mineral raw materials that have been seized, in some ways, because these are state ownership, the mineral raw materials are state property, they have been taken away from the country. And the first trials have already been completed. I can say that after work, and after reviewing the work of our inspection, it had very favourable reflections, that the number of newly reported illegal sand diggers has greatly decreased. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u154	Yeah, not even under a supplementary question. I would like to ensure, by the representatives of the Government, that, in this case, the investigation will also be extended to those who, at the time of the moratorium in 1993 and 1994, drew on grammes and are known. It will not be the end of the matter that this investigation is being conducted only against a number of numerals in this area who have been able for 40 years to watch everyone do them harm on the surfaces that were theirs. That's all I'd want to have. However, if the state cannot do so, then, of course, as a Member of equality - after what the Constitution says - it would expect these actions to withdraw, these investigations would also withdraw against this, in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Can we move on? Mr. Franc Tsukati has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you. Nice greetings to all present! My question will be addressed to the Minister of Health, because I am glad that today is among us. However, my question arises from a very specific individual tragedy, one case, namely, let Mr NN be young sir, he is a good worker, fell into alcohol, went to hospital, to treatment, for six months he was at some clinic, treatment failed, he came back, he got mixed up in drugs. He was in the hospital all this time, and then he got into the methadone program and he was on methadone for about a year. Then he met a group and got the devil, some motivation to really be treated for addiction. Well, he came into some community. The meeting, after a year and a half, was presented again on the medical board and his hospital was terminated. The Commission's response is: "Unfortunately, during social rehabilitation, an insured person is not entitled to the hospital stock and compensation." He had a choice: either stop treatment, go back to methadone therapy and thus continue the hospital, or take a loss of job on his shoulders. And he chose the other one. However, since he could not apply to the employment agency because he had to appear there occasionally and be available for public works, he could not become a poor congregation member in order to pay for him, he had no parents, friends, brothers to pay for him, and he was finally spared by a clean third party and paid for him health insurance so that he could be in a community. He's only been in the commune for six months now. He's holding up pretty good. That's what it says in these photos. But I'm asking the next question. Mr. Minister, in such a case, do you not find it unfair to this young boy that, in fact, some of these incomprehensible bureaucratic things threaten the last of which we can expect to succeed? Because these groups can boast of 85% of recovery, the methadone program of course with zero. And: Don't you think it's wise to use the initiative and this initiative of the extra-health system and allow it, perhaps with some minimal means, to actually contribute to its impact? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u158	Your Honor! Because you are a doctor, like me, you know how individual problems are sometimes much more difficult to resolve and not always, even if they were linked to well-known formal procedures. In the case of treated addiction, of course, we also have many differences in the profession. I will not want to take too much of the opportunity to speak about the fact that in this House last year, I have heard that, as Minister, I cannot interfere with the opinion of the profession when the profession decides substantively what is professional and what is not professional. Allow me to say very human and also as Minister. Yes, I think we have, not only this case, that we have administrative, typically bureaucratic procedures that sometimes hinder citizens' lives, that we also have insufficient legislation, and that, in a particular case, we also have a considerable gap in our professional opinion. I think that such cases and I would ask you - but I think I know what kind of citizen this is, but I am asking you all for this information, so that, as an example, we can help us with individual opinions and then also help us to change the laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Complementary, Mr. Cuckoo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u160	As an example, in Italy these communes are considered to be therapeutic facilities, are registered, have concessions in some way and are treated as treatment in them, and the insured may also have hospital status during treatment. That's the first one. Secondly, you know that the methadone program treats the patient and the medicine costs about 500,000 per patient per year. If the 8-member commune were formed from methadone, we'd save four million. This could, with these 4 million even one medical technician and, let's say, 0.2 psychiatrists could be included in this commune once a week, that's 0.2 psychiatrists, and in some ways, this potential in the nation that we're looking for because of the lack of financial resources, health resources, would be included and used, I think, effectively. To resolve this dilemma is of course, I think, in the first place, the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Here I have a message from Mr Potrč, who is officially absent and addressed his question in writing to Minister Kopač. We continue with the questions of the Member States, Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, distinguished representatives of the government, Members, Members of Parliament. I have a question for the Minister of Economy, the area for regional development. The Ministry of Economy has rejected the role of co-financing the project of reconstruction of local roads in the region of Korea. In this way, it damaged the nine municipalities of Korea, even though they submitted their applications in due time and fulfilled all the conditions of the tender. Even the President of the National Assembly of the Republic, Mr Borut Pahor, in the municipality of Ribnica in Pohorje last week, stressed the importance of the State's assistance to small municipalities, in particular in rural areas, where the reconstruction of local roads in the region of Koro. The latter are another black point in the already impoverished region, which certainly does not contribute to the greater return of young people to remote Slovenian places, which is also supposed to be one of the solutions for rural recovery. I estimate that the reasons on the basis of the evaluation that are defined in the rejection are not merciless and that the region of Korea has been wronged. The competent ministry of Mrs Petrinovo, I ask: For what reasons have you made the funds available to others? The endangered Carinthia region, which has been demanding for a number of years to modernise roads, has been rejected again and on the basis of a legitimate invitation to tender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you for the question, Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Well, because this is a very specific question and because there is also a State Secretary, Mr Strumčnik, who is likely to be very familiar with this issue, will also give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u165	Mr. Stormer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Your Honor, for your question. Therefore, by means of means to promote coherent regional development, we help all regions, and especially those who are lagging behind in development, we also define the Koro region. We are planning or making several calls this year. The one you're talking about was dedicated to road infrastructure. There are others. In particular, in this call for proposals, the Carinthian region received 10 % of all the funds requested or granted, much more than the participation of the population, as well as in the whole of the country. This is said to have received adequate resources from the region as a whole, and from this point of view, I can assess that the call has achieved its objective. In short, the funds were located in those areas where the need is greater. It is true, however, that they did not receive funds from all the congregations in the Koror region this year. They were not received because the Ministry had abolished them, this year for the first time it has not implemented a call for local infrastructure. And secondly, this year for the first time consistently implements a closed financial structure. This means that the financial structure must be closed for the entire project described. As a result, we have been able to approve a smaller number of major projects. Because of this, I think that only three Cora municipalities - and this information is not entirely reliable now because I have no data - have come to the means. Now, where's the solution? We cannot satisfy all the infrastructure needs in the Carinthian region in one year. There is much more to it than the resources available. This year, we are moving into a programme way of financing regional development programmes, which will be a step forward in the direction that the region of Cora, as the region that has drawn up the regional development programme, is actually looking forward to. However, the idea is that projects would no longer appear on State calls and there, depending on the number of points then succeed or fail, but that two agencies, the Republic of Slovenia Regional Development Agency and the Carinthian Regional Development Agency would jointly draw up a programme and this investment programme would then be an integral part of the state budget and the development programme plan of the budget. I am confident that during the summer we will be able to prepare this programme and that the Carinthian roads will be placed in the budget development programme plan for this year's budget debate. At that time, it will be an opportunity for some congregations to be wronged because they had fewer points than some other congregations that had a higher number of points. Yes, to conclude, let me just assess that the resources we can allocate through regional incentives for regional development programmes are actually small. And that is why we are intensively looking for other incentives and other motives at the Ministry of the Economy. Above all, something will have to be done to activate private motives, the private sector, especially in those regions that are more developed. Now this is not the case in the Koror region, but there is a problem, especially in the more developed congregations. However, it is mainly expected from Ljubljana, Western Slovenia is expected to prepare such regional development programmes, based mainly on the activation of the private sector and less on state aid. A report on regional development to be discussed next week is being prepared, I think, at the 13th meeting of the Economic Committee in Parliament as well; then there will be an opportunity to talk about systemic solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr. Joža Ašić has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Dear government officials! I raise the question to the Minister, Mrs Petrinov, but it concerns the activities of the compensation fund related to the implementation of the law on the fund for the payment of war damage. We've been getting married a long time since 1992. Following the adoption of the Property Transformation Act and Article 33 of the Act, provision was made for the establishment of a Fund for the Repayment of War Damage and for part of the privatisation purchase to be made there. In 1995, we passed a law on the use of purchases and since this year, 8.5% of purchases have been made into the fund and according to data, now several of the old, have been collected in accordance with at least 6.5 billion tolars. I ask: Will these funds be transferred or are they already transferred to the Slovenian Compensation Society, which is in charge of paying compensation to the beneficiaries? When we adopted the law last year, the payment deadline, which was adopted in second reading, was extended for several years. At the same time, we ensured to the Society of Evictions from Slovenia that the advantage was that on 15 January 2002 all beneficiaries would receive the first instalment of compensation at the same time. We are now in May and the beneficiaries of the decisions have not yet received, at least a large majority of them, although with all the data on the beneficiaries the Slovenian Compensation Society has been in possession since November 2001. A reply was given to the already put-up question on these decisions, which was put forward on 23 October 2001, that the decisions would be issued in November and December 2001. I ask: What answer should we give to the Society of Banishers of Slovenia? I am not the only MPs coming from areas where Members were very large and where we receive weekly, on Mondays, in sent-out offices such questions - how to answer them that they were somehow played again and that these decisions are waiting, virtually every day, for them to come from the Slovenian Compensation Society The question is: Why is such a delay coming, and what will the Ministry or the indirect administrative apparatus of the compensation fund do to speed up the decision-making process and that, at least a few months later, they will be issued at least in this half-year? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Thank you for the question, Mr Member. For the first time, it must be said that all these legal acts, which form the basis for issuing the provisions, were not actually adopted until 1 September 2001. Since then, the Slovenian Compensation Company has become fully operationally in charge and responsible for issuing decisions. Of course, we too, because we have prepared this legal basis in the Ministry of Justice, are watching over the functioning of this society. And I could help you with some data. That is, the Slovenian Indemnity Company was granted a decision-making opportunity in November 2001 and issued 1200 of them in December. Well, if I go after it now: 2000-1800. And what I want to show is that the ability of this compensation company is increasing in terms of faster processing, more applications and, of course, decisions. Thus, 5100 decisions have already been issued in April 2002. So since December 2001, 11 000 600 decisions have been issued. The beneficiaries are $56,000. And now, how would we hurry with that? One of the matters currently dealt with by the Slovenian Indemnity Company is to automate their issuance according to the type of decisions and annual beneficiary. And that, of course, would be a kind of rush to make decisions. Secondly, I can also say that up to now about 4 000 beneficiaries have also been paid a cash compensation of 150 000 tolars within 30 days of the submission of a legal decision. However, this bond extradition procedure is already under way. In short, in the beginning it was necessary to learn and the procedures are now running faster than I said, but in view of this automation of the issue. This is intended to accelerate the issuance of these decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Complementary. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you. The first part of the question, unfortunately, I didn't get an answer. This is: Has money already been transferred to the fund from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia from purchases? However, in the second part, of course, I am taking an additional initiative. Undoubtedly, the information you've said is correct, and I've been familiar with it to some extent myself, but I must point out that this means about 20 percent of the deposits solved. According to the promises of the adoption of the law, this will be completed in January. This promise, of course, was made by the Slovenian Government on behalf of all those who are supposed to work on this project. That is why, of course, I am genuinely giving, Madam Minister, the initiative to issue this issue as quickly as possible - because these decisions have bonds and transferred payments, and there is no reason to save this problem unless they are issued in a short time - but the unrest between beneficiaries or confidence in the government will be somewhat greater if this task is carried out as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Petty Officer has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you so much for saying that. I welcome the representatives of the government very much. I would like to ask a question about humanitarian organisations. Every day the media informs us of a new story, an ugly story that takes place at the Red Cross of Slovenia humanitarian organisation. This sheds a bad light on this activity in our country and also goes across borders. This is due to unregulated legislation, and people who run this organisation also have an inappropriate attitude and therefore work poorly. At the time of the adoption of the law on disability organisations, it was said or adopted a decision by the National Assembly to draw up a law on humanitarian organisations. This has not been followed by the government, but obviously it does not seem worthy of respect for the conclusions of the National Assembly, which are not merely to be respected, but also to contribute to the orderliness of the State and to the prevention of these excesses. That is why I have drafted a law on charities and humanitarian organisations, which also sets out how, at the end of the year, restrictions on payments to officials and staff and what happened to funds after the end of humanitarian organisations. I wonder what you will do as a government - now I do not know which individual ministry is in charge - that these excesses, in particular the latter, will not be carried out in the direction indicated? What will you do about the law on humanitarian organisations? Will it continue as it has been in recent times, and will people, regretting God, listen to these unscrupulous stories? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you very much. By the government, who will answer the question? Mr. Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u176	I'm sorry. Surely the question raised by the Member is an extremely important one. It is probably true that in recent years the construction of a system of functioning of humanitarian organisations has been quite absent. The fact is, as has already been found, that a number of these excesses are also derived from unregulated legislation. The government certainly supports the legal regulation of this issue. I think that within the procedure for the adoption or consideration of the law that the Member has tabled, the Government will also make its contribution or constructive position, as well as the constructive additions to this law, so that in future similar issues and similar excesses will no longer arise. However, I can certainly ensure that the government answers this question in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you. Complementary question, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u178	The complementary issue concerns the specific achievements that are now in place. What does the government intend to do about the cancellations that have occurred? Is she going to do anything? As we know, some prominent representatives of political parties have been involved in this, I will not specifically refer to it, but it also sheds a bad light on political parties, in particular the LDS is mentioned and the United List, namely, with federal representatives in particular. But with regard to the marriage, thank you very much for answering my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u180	Of course, I would particularly like to reject any debate on the policy of humanitarian organisations. Nor would I like to attribute political definitions to which of the employees of these organisations. I don't know them after all. I can certainly say that there are some great opportunities for her to interfere with the situation so far. For this reason, there are other authorities and, as I know, appropriate procedures are under way here, as are law enforcement authorities. However, I think the Court of Auditors can and will have to carry out its task. Certainly, by the government, I do not see any legal way for the government to reach back into this organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to members of the government, as well as to colleagues and fellow Members. I am referring the question to the Minister of the Interior. In the process of adoption in the National Assembly, there is a package of legislation to continue the reform of public administration. This legislation, in addition to the urgent adaptation, organisation and functioning of the state administration with Europe, also brings the abolition of individual exposures, offices and other forms of organisation of state offices and institutions at the local level. According to available data, in addition to some of the exhibitions of administrative units, geodetic administrations, Dursa, municipal judges for offences, expositions of the Ministry of Defence, further stages of work, headquarters for social work and perhaps other institutions will also be abolished. By closing down and abolishing these rural institutions, citizens are effectively deprived of the right to adequate access and use of the country's services. These measures are in total contravention of the country's equitable development programme and, in particular, the promotion of rural development. Instead of strengthening rural infrastructure, things are centralised in several key locations in the country, while additional incentives are being created for the eviction and extinction of rural settlements. Although the government has consistently stressed the principle of citizens-friendly administration and has also granted recognition to officials, at the same time it distances its authorities and provides administrative services to citizens. The abolition of institutions also means the abolition of jobs for households, thereby increasing the migration of the population to larger urban centres. Already such major problems with unemployment and rural transport have only increased these matters. I ask: What are the reasons for carrying out such activities, and on what criteria is this being done? I would also like to ask: Which municipalities and what expositions or institutions or their bodies will the government end by the end of 2002 and in the coming years? How does the government intend to replace cancelled jobs? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u184	I thank you for this question. It is also by explaining that the processes that we face within the framework of the reform of public administration and local self-government are being managed in the opposite direction from the direction that you have expressed concern and called centralisation to transport administrative services from rural to centres. There are two processes running in parallel. One of you is the public administration reform project mentioned above, where, in addition to the law on public servants, we are enacting a new law on public administration, the law on inspection supervision and the law on public agencies. None of these laws have a specific orientation towards the abolition of the country's local exposures or centralisation orientation. Perhaps, as one of the possible cases that arose in the debates, in the controversy, I think that you had in mind the State Administration Act or its transitional provision concerning the transfer of services of geodetic administrations to administrative units and in one of the previous texts of this Act similar to that of tax administrations. In the last draft law on the State Assembly for Third Review, the government has abolished the definition of the transfer of tax administration services to administrative units and remains the same on geodetic services. However, I would like to stress in particular that this is not a matter of prolonging the route between citizens and citizens and the country, not of abolishing such services, but of transferring such services from a small number of geodetic exposures to a large number of administrative units. This will, of course, mean that, if this transitional provision is adopted, the personnel providing these services will have to be transferred from geodetic stations to administrative units for a transitional period of 3 years, as provided for in this operation. This is also, in fact, the only one with regard to these four laws, a reorganisation that has any impact on the country's network at local level. Nor will it cause the process of centralisation, or will it result in the extension of these routes from country to people, nor in the processes to which you point out or consider them to be monitoring, i.e. the transition of personnel from less developed environments to centres. Certainly not the goal and direction, nor the instruments of public administration reform, to do something like this, but vice versa. In the practical policy of these reforms we take two more in parallel, for your questions relevant, the process. One is the informationisation of the public administration and thus the establishment of information offices and local offices. This is the path we always support. We also establish a gradual possibility of transferring certain state functions to municipalities, knowing that the number and network of municipalities in Slovenia are significantly larger than the network of administrative units. At the same time, preparations are under way for another important project that will contribute to the same objectives. This is a project to establish landscapes in Slovenia. The objectives that we set ourselves on the project as fundamental objectives are decentralisation of power, polycentric or regional development and the application of the principle of subsidiarity or the approximation of the decision-making of public social governance decisions to people known to the European principle. This means the implementation of a public administration reform project, as well as a project on the introduction of landscapes, which will follow, which will be dynamic in the second half of this year, when we also arrive with legislative projects from this area in Parliament. Both have a goal that is contrary to what you have expressed your own concerns about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I don't think the statements, Mr. Minister, that you've mentioned are entirely true. But maybe it's also my fault that I've narrowed it down a bit. However, if I speak specifically for the municipality of Ribnica, in these recent reforms, which are taking place, in particular the reform of the Slovenian army, then the paying agency, then we have here a law on offences that once again have consequences, with the reform of Dursa, then also the exhibition of Mors, lost 32 jobs, all from middle to high education. Reforms, I do not think they are concluded, because they will certainly continue at other levels, I have mentioned the Centre for Social Work, certainly because it is in some scheme, and perhaps the Office for Work, and these jobs are not for such profiles, for such an education level, cannot be compensated with any action at the local level. It is not possible to take entrepreneurial measures as quickly as possible, nor with local programmes, municipal programmes or any other. In fact, I would like to know how to replace these lost jobs in specific municipalities where this is happening. I'm not saying that this is happening everywhere, but in some of the smaller municipalities in particular, with smaller administrative units, this is certainly happening. Jobs are disappearing, there is no compensation. As jobs go, other forms of activity and integration go. As a rule, these are average-quality people who work at local work also with other people, not only in these professional matters and they weaken other tasks, including in the field of culture and beyond. I think we should also find an answer if we are to end and structure the state administration, including the answer and alternatives to such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u187	Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u188	I would like to reiterate that the government's direction on this issue is decentralisation, not only guidance, but also the task of ministries to act in this direction to apply this direction. I would also like to reiterate that my assurances relate to the laws which are under the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior. This is what we understand under the public administration reform project, which concerns a narrower part of the state administration. I repeat here, and I assure you that this is not a process of this kind. However, I think it would be right to ask the specific questions you are asking about the competence of the Ministry of Labour or the centres for social work, but to be answered by this. We will ensure that the competent ministry gives its own observations or answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Government officials, welcome aboard! I intended to ask the Minister of Transport, who is not today, but is a representative of the Ministry, the Secretary of State. He's the Minister, I believe in Cyprus, when they opened up new capacities on the second pier today. I would like to inform you that I will not insist on the question which the Ministry received when we discussed the amendment of Article 8 of the Code of Sea. I asked the government how it was that, within one year of the adoption of the maritime code, there was such an important 180-degree twist in the opinion on the impact of nuclear ships on Slovenian inland waters. I haven't received an answer until today. I believe it's embarrassing, so I don't even insist, because the story is already a "passenger," so I'm facilitating the ministry's work. I don't expect that answer anymore. I've created an opinion. With regard to the second track, however, I would ask the Ministry: Are the real news that the Ministry would withdraw from the second track project and go only to the modernisation of the existing track, although it is aware that this task is also coalitionly coordinated and also adopted in a coalition agreement? The consequences of the withdrawal from this project may be significant. In this regard, I would therefore ask the Ministry whether these consciences are true. The second question, which relates to what colleague Gasparini already said before, is the question of the fifth or tenth corridor. Look, it's not that innocent. The European Parliament Transport Commission had already discussed this a good month ago in order to freeze the European Union's 15-year investment in the fifth corridor. The decision may not have been taken, but the temptations are here. I am taking the initiative of the Ministry of Transport, as I have already given in writing to the government, to deal seriously with this threat. If there are such temptations, which will be explained to us by the President of the Transport Commission on Friday, when he arrives in Slovenia, what more must Slovenia prepare to malice with European partners, in particular with the countries on the Fifth Corridor, from Spain to Ukraine, if we want to prevent a withdrawal from this project, which would be devastating and catastrophic for our further development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State, you will be able to respond, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you so much for the questions. Thank you so much for moving away from the first question. As for the second track, the Ministry of Transport is in no way departing from the second track project. Not to talk too much about the past, but there are some things that need to be said. The first national programme envisaged the construction of the second track between 1998 and 2000. Given the difficulty of construction and many variants, alternative studies have been produced and are in fact the final phase. Today we also have before us a study on the eligibility of construction of the second track and a comparison with the possibility of updating the first track. So what is needed on the first track to make this first track go up. Studies show that, of course, by certain measures, it is possible to increase the gap of this track there by 2010. This data points us to the need to continue with the activities on the second track, to continue work on the location documentation, to explore the possibility of connecting the fast track, this is the M2 trailer. Any definitive responses to the construction of the second track will be processed in the national programme, thus complementing the national programme to be submitted in June 2002. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Mr Terchoon is not here, and Mr Mamić will ask the question instead of Mr Bernnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I have already mentioned to Mr Rupel, Minister for Foreign Affairs, and he said he would give an answer in writing, so it is not necessary to reply. But if any of you can answer that question, I'd like to ask. It's the next one. In Rome, an art exhibition was recently opened, which was taken from Slovenia's Istria to central Italy during the Fascism. How is it possible that nothing has been said in the years of your ministry, the management of the foreign ministry of these stolen arts? Why have you never asked Italy to return these art to the public? Why did no one ask the Italian State to return to the press until it was discovered? This is particularly sad because in these years Italy has diplomatically pressured us for the property of Istrian octanes and foies. The defensive policy of the Slovenian state has been pointed out for many years by many individuals, such as Milan Gregorič, but this has always been suppressed. For national interest, we declare everything in order, and for our art we begin to negotiate, only when journalists discover that Italy has not yet returned everything they took from us during the Fascism. The work of the Foreign Ministry must thus be carried out by journalists. It is understandable that in such a relationship with the foreign ministry, many Primors measure Ljubljana with former Belgrade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u195	Who's going to answer? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer that question, and you'll see if there's another written answer. First of all, I would simply say that it is not true that the foreign ministry has done nothing or has never protested since independence, has never raised the issue of the restoration of cultural goods, art goods and archives. The Foreign Ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia have constantly raised this issue in talks with the Italian side. And I would like to give you now the chronology of how the whole thing was going. First of all, the legal basis, which is also widely discussed on the Italian side, whether or not it exists. The legal basis is very clear and is a very legitimate requirement of Slovenia for the return of property, pardon, artistic, historical and archaeological objects. It is therefore based on Article 4 of Annex 14 to the 1947 Paris Peace Treaty, which is very clear. If I may read, it says that the Italian Government has transferred to the successor State all objects of artistic, historical or theological value that are part of the cultural heritage of the territory in question and were removed from there at the time the territory was mentioned under Italian supervision without payment and in the hands of the Italian Government or the Italian public institutions. That's pretty clear. However, the legal interpretation for the free market territory is, in the OTC agreements, specifically in the annex to the OTCs, in a letter, an exchange of letters between the Foreign Minister of the time Milic and Rumuer, which is an integral part of the treaty, an integral part of the OTC agreements in which they spoke of the restoration of cultural heritage, archival and cadastral and land-book material from the territory of zone B of the free market territory. On this basis, a mixed commission was established between the former Yugoslavia and the Republic of Italy, which met several times and prepared lists of these artistic and archival materials. The last time she met was in 1987, and then not anymore. In 1992, Slovenia took over the letters, which are part of these agreements, following the agreements and automatically. In the form of the notes exchanged, Italy has therefore confirmed its readiness to form a mixed Slovenian Italian Commission which would also address this issue. Slovenia has repeatedly opened this issue bilaterally in talks, but the Italian side has not shown a particular willingness to form this mixed commission. Therefore, on 14 January 1999, Slovenia, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, reiterated the Italian parties' proposal to form a mixed committee, in accordance with the exchange of letters of individual agreements, to the State, which would address these issues. Slovenia has also included a special article in its draft programme for 2002-2005 in the preparation of the programme for cultural cooperation between Slovenia and Italy, which discusses that the Parties will establish a mixed commission for the return of cultural goods, works of art, archives and cadastral land books, which were carried out during and after World War II from Yugoslavia or the territory of Slovenia. The Italian side adopted that article and remained in a coordinated programme of cultural cooperation, which has not yet been signed due to recent changes in the Italian Foreign Ministry, when the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister are also reshaping this department for cultural cooperation. When the press conference was announced and the press conference was held and 25 works were first presented to the public from Slovenia, the Ministry, with a note on 14 May, proposed a joint commission. The Italian party then replied that it had sent the competent authorities to investigate the matter. The Slovenian Foreign Ministry is now preparing, together with the Ministry of Culture, specific information, an analysis for the government with proposals for action aimed at setting up a Mixed Commission with Italy to address all open issues. For each area, expert groups dealing with material would be established, a list of materials would be drawn up, and certain decisions would be taken on the return of these matters to Slovenia. Thus, the legal basis and the right of Slovenia to these works and works of art are perfectly clear. Italy has so far not shown its particular willingness to form a mixed commission after its independence. The Slovenian Foreign Ministry and the Government have repeatedly warned that this is necessary and proposed, but now we are considering what else the Slovenian side can do to start talking to the Italian side within this Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Mr. Branko Kelemina has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Respectable all together! In fact, as always, the same picture, 10% of the Members, two, three ministers of the ministries, I don't know if it all makes sense. We really need to ask ourselves once if it all makes sense. Does the Slovenian public know what we're doing in here? This should be shown on television and promoted. That's the bulk of it! I'll do my mission if I have to. I am asking the question of the Minister, Mr Kopach. Now he's not here, and he hasn't been here long, so maybe he'll hear. On what basis, with what policy will Slovenia sell electricity from 1.7.2002 if Croatia does not take that share, one half of the production from the Krško nuclear power plant? This is of immense interest to me. Mr Prime Minister mentioned earlier that we do not have the right to conclude long-term contracts, as he has been vehemently explaining. Please, whose interests are we to protect or protect? Whose? I'm asking myself, you who are still here, is it even possible to talk about the fact that we have no right to accept long-term contracts at all. We have to say at least one year in advance to Croatia: If you do not decide today, there will be no electricity, because we have to sell it after a long-term contract because we have to protect our interests. If we are unable to do so, we are not able to do anything and better to remove all those who are not able to drive this project in the right way, to protect Slovenian interests. I ask the Minister if he can answer me what the policy is in this area, how this will develop in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Is it possible to answer that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u200	Well, as Member Kelemina knows, after all, that she works on an investigative committee, long-term contracts are concluded at the end of the year for the entire following year. Last November or early December, the Krška nuclear power plant did not conclude a contract for the entire year, because we all expected it to start supplying half of electricity to Croatia by 1.7, and therefore, of course, it did not sell this half in advance and did not sell it even now because we are counting on the Treaty to be ratified. If Parliament refuses to ratify this treaty, then the Krško nuclear power plant will have to sell this electricity at the best possible price to someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you. Complementary question, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General. Well, now you've said this again, and we're actually making an eternal mistake: we don't know how to set bargaining points for someone, but we don't know what to say, dear friends, if you don't decide by this date, one year you can't get electricity or anything else. And we have to protect our economic interests. Please, what are we doing? And that's what we've figured out now on all levels, on the committee, and so on, that we can't do without it. You have now again done the matter of not knowing how and what since 1.7.2002. And we will sell again at a low price on the daily markets or as much as we can or how we can. We can't do that, but when you learn, I don't know, but it's a healthy farmer's logic that once you make a mistake, you can't make ten mistakes. A farmer won't do it how you can do it, you have college education, you have doctorate, and so on. How can you do such things? And you say, we expected an agreement to be made. It can't be, these things have to be designed forward, on the right date, you yourself have told what these conditions are, what the hands are, and when these things need to be clear. Why are you going to such children's games that have no economic basis at all, no political basis, and so on. This is my childhood, and in this way, if this happens, of course I will check these things, I remember well that on this basis it will be discussed in the National Assembly and elsewhere. Thank you very much. I am sorry that we do not know for the first time, not for the third time, not for the third time, in the interest of our own Slovenian interests, that we are subject to such simple interests or that we could even assess, amazing stories and unrealistic expectations of doing someone a favor. I don't think that's supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u204	Mr Kelemina, if you would tell me in November that you are guaranteeing after all your property, these things are, after all, very dear that the ratification of the agreement, the interstate agreement will not be accepted for Parliament to reject it, then I would probably be looking for another solution by November. You didn't do it. You didn't do it right now. Do you guarantee that Parliament will reject ratification by 30.6. If you guarantee me this moment, 100%, not ninety-nine percent, a hundred percent, then of course I will take this knowledge as a decision of Parliament, please give me also in writing, although unfortunately you do not have this authority and we will of course do otherwise. Of course, we are preparing to minimize damage, prepare ourselves, undeniably. I'm not going to explain with any action. But it has to be realized that this is not a situation like it was in 1998, when some non-payment crisis dragged on for a long time, but then on a very unhappy date decided to shut down the nuclear power plant. This is about something that's very predictable. The accuracy of this assumption is also determined by you, Mr Kelemina, among the 90 others.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u205	Mr Blaž Kavčič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister Ruple, Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I will ask the distinguished Secretary of State to pass on my question to him. In fact, it is my request for assistance regarding the visit I had in my office. I was visited by a delegation of the Occupational Victims' Association in 1941-1945 from Kranj. I have two questions in this regard. The first question is more of a communication nature. Representatives of this civil society organisation have complained to me that at least 4 months or more from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have received no answer to written requests, questions. In the meantime, there has also been a public protest. In this regard, of course, I would like to express my conviction that we are both Members and Government representatives to answer to citizens, and in more difficult situations, perhaps with procrastination questions or with negative answers. I believe that it is the duty of all of us who work in public functions to answer to citizens. Especially when it comes to representatives of important civil society organisations. I would therefore like to ask you here for an explanation and a solution to this problem at a purely communication level. But the second part of my question is more of a substantive nature. I am interested in a more detailed explanation of the Slovenian government's views on the claims of victims who suffered material damage during World War II. We have addressed the issue of intangible damage and resolved it by means of a law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. Their problem is regulated by the Law on Victims of War Violence and, after all, by the Law on Property Transformation of Enterprises. The problem of material damage, according to my behavior, remained completely intact. Representatives of the designated organisation have expressed their view that they actually want the assistance of the Slovenian Government in the recovery procedures to the perpetrators, the Federal Republic of Germany is saying. In this regard, I have the following questions: Will I complete my question if I am given the opportunity to do so? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you. Answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Two questions first. If I understand, for the first time, the question that the association has not received an answer from the foreign ministry. I can't answer this question because I don't really know about their letter and I don't know what the answer is. The policy of the ministry, especially the minister, is to respond to all the letters it receives. Thus, in principle, this communication problem does not exist in the foreign ministry. On the contrary. We answer all the letters coming to the cabinet of the Minister, the Minister himself or others. Why the answer is not yet possible is probably the reason that the answer is not only within the competence of the foreign ministry, that the topic is broader than that of the foreign ministry. As I was reminded, two weeks ago, a short discussion took place in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in which three ministries, foreign affairs, justice and work, were responsible for preparing analysis or information for the government and responding to those associations. That's as much as I know right now. If you want details, I need to check with the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u209	It's a supplement. Mr. Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u210	I'd like to ask you for the exact information on the answer you're giving. Clearly, we agree on the policy. In particular, I would be interested in the following: Has not the government completely renounced its ability to recover compensation for material and intangible damage caused during the occupation, as did the Czech Republic and Poland? Why has the Government of the Republic of Slovenia never sought to conclude a so-called conciliation agreement with the Federal Republic of Germany, which would constitute the legal basis for the recovery of compensation for Slovenian victims of war violence? The sums of these compensations range from between $200 billion and 250 billion. For the time being, there is still an opportunity to consider recovery from the perpetrator. I am interested in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At this stage, of course, I do not intend to put forward legislative proposals attacking the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, but I would first be interested in the position of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the external direction. That is why I also addressed this issue to the Foreign Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you. We can move on. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u212	Dear ministers, representatives of the government, respected Vice-President! My question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment, Mr Kopač, but it concerns flood safety in the Savinja area, on the Savinja river, specifically on the Bolja river. We are a month before the opening of the Vransko-Trojana motorway section, which represents an exceptional intervention in the area on the river of Bolje, and consequently, because of the new catchment areas, it further improves the flood safety of already critical area of Savinja. This flood safety is aggravated by the more than a decade of abandonment of water management arrangements and, as I have already said, by the absence of the necessary measures to be built to retain high waters on the river of Bosnia which have not been implemented or which were not foreseen by the location regulation for that motorway section. This was also indirectly confirmed by the Minister of Transport, Mr President, when I asked why similar measures had been taken on the Ljubljana side of the Black Grabn, and there were no such measures on the Trojan side. As a result, the ministry has already found that the new catchment areas have had such a significant impact on the deterioration of flood safety that a series of water management measures, a series of restraints, need to be built, are in particular seven retentions only in the narrower area of this motorway section. A suitable study has also been carried out, which has already been done by the Ministry of Environment and Space. My question is quite concrete: When will the construction of high-water restraints on the river Boljska begin and when will the construction of planned restraints be completed? Today I do not even expect an answer, but I would like a written reply, indicating the date on which the construction of these restraints will begin and when these restraints will be built. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Thank you for understanding, too. I can't even give you the exact answer right now and we'll deliver it to you in writing. Of course, there won't be a date in it, but there will be an anniversary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-21-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u215	Thank you very much. With this we have concluded this agenda item, thank the government representatives for the answers given, for their presence. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at ten o'clock. We'll start by addressing point two and then two A's and orderly forwards. Thank you very much.
