ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellows and fellows, welcome! I begin the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Bojan Kontič, Danica Simšič, Samo Bevk, Dr. Jožef Bernik, Jože Ašič, Franz Pukšič, Jože Kavtičnik, Bogdan Barovic, Richard Beumann, Ljubo Germič, Aurelio Juri, Alojz Peterle and Franz Čebulj. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please insert the tabs and press the "quorum" button. I note that there are 48 Members and Members present; the assembly is concluded and may decide. At an extraordinary meeting, I welcome representatives of the government. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. With reference to 16 April 2002, you received a agenda covering only one item, the second reading of the bill on the public sector wage system. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly [[I probably don't have to read this article, but if it does, I'll do it.]] . I have not received a motion for withdrawal or an extension of the agenda. Does anyone want a word about this? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will decide on the proposal for a full agenda. So I propose today's agenda session, as you received by reference. Can we vote on the agenda? We're voting, please. Of the 58 present, 43 votes in favour and 11 against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the agenda for the 16th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. Periods of the day, that's another defense bill for the pay system in the public sector. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He does.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the Members and Members! Allow me to make some introductory remarks to the proposal for a bill on the public sector wage system for a second reading. The law, as is known, lays the foundations of a system of wages and is part of this system, which is also built on social partnership, collective agreements and other lower-class acts. The law needs to be adopted as soon as possible, such is the requirement of all stakeholders, governments, social partners, and it is therefore welcome to be included in today's extraordinary meeting. In particular, it is important that the debate on the law has shifted into a debate on the new ratios between the salaries of individual parts of the public sector, between paying groups, because the law actually brings new relations, namely the law on relations and the law on the basis of the system. Let me briefly inform you of the key amendments to the second reading text, and let me say that we have taken into account most of the 34 positions that the National Assembly has imposed on the proposer for second reading, as well as most of the positions of the Law and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Above all, it is true that in the text we have defined some basic concepts more clearly than before, in particular the concept of the public sector, which we have aligned with the law on public servants and also with a specific instruction or special aid, which is all part of the concept of the public sector. We have defined the concept of pay more clearly than the basic salary, pay with supplements and with success. In addition, we have put in place a document, a catalogue of jobs, a kind of survey of all jobs in all parts of the public sector. We have introduced the concept of a common methodology for job evaluation and classification. We have slightly changed payroll groups or subgroups, in line with a tool that defines what belongs in the public sector. We have also worked very hard and well with the social partners to define the amount of wage funds and align this process with the budgetary procedure. Thus, the percentage of harmonisation of annual wages should be determined and in line with collective agreements and the level of remuneration per class should be determined by the harmonisation of the national assembly. In the new text for today's debate, there is a change to who adopts one of the more important sub-legislative acts, which is a common methodology for classification. Since the previous regulation that this is a regulation, we have now provided, in agreement with the social partners, that this is a collective agreement, a specific collective agreement that is concluded in the public sector. In the Act we deleted the tariff annex and concluded that the tariff classes should be determined by the methodology mentioned above. In our progress, we have accepted the demands of the social partners that the first two advances should not be limited to one class every three years, but that the first two advances, i.e. at the beginning of the career, are possible to advance at once for two payment classes. We also clarified issues related to horizontal and vertical progress. This is said, on the one hand, by promotion in the workplace and in the title, which is the subject of this law, and by promotion from one job to another or from one title to another, which is the subject of sectoral laws. This also defines the relationship between system law and sectoral laws, which will continue to address a number of wage issues. I am referring to the law on judicial service, the laws on education and education and so on. It's about success. Social partners demand that not only be paid once, but at least twice a year or more. We are inclined to accept in the final reading text a change in the sense that performance would be paid twice in June and December. In addition, the legal text has already been included in terms of performance, in addition to allowing for a maximum of one salary to be paid for sales on the market and for rationalisation. The procedure in Chapter VII is quite refined, where there is talk about possible changes in the wage/range ratios in individual parts of the public sector. The exact powers of the world to pay for the system of wages are now laid down. The composition of the world is also determined. The procedure is fully in line with the budgetary procedure. This will ensure what we call public financial control of wages. We also propose to amend Annex 1, taking into account the discussions of the social partners in the sense that the ranges are too large. The original proposal of the ranges was 1 to 13 in terms of gross wages. The proposal, as amended by Table 1, is 1 to 12 gross, which would mean 1 to 7 to 8 net. This is supposed to be the salary range after deduction of contributions and income. We have raised, and this is an important change, the lowest basic salary, from the previous 88 thousand 476 to the proposed 99 thousand 523. A few more words on the most discussed annex or component of this law, this is Annex 2. Here we have put forward a proposal for major changes in the range ratios between pay groups, namely three rules that are now included in Annex 2. The first rule is to align all three branches of government and also other state bodies, taking into account the wages incurred with other state bodies. Second rule, the second principle is equality, let's call them, the highest professional professions in the public sector. These are university teachers, specialist doctors, artists, researchers and top officials. This is the level that we now equalize as the highest wage. And the third level, which is also being levelled, are so-called state-owned professions, policemen, soldiers, inspectors, guards and other professions with special powers. From amended Annex 2, you can see the equation of these three levels. If I add to this the highest wage, which means a reduction in the range, the content of the news is, in fact, presented as regards Annex 2. Allow me a few more comments on the comments made by the law enforcement department. We have coordinated with the experts in this service on some open issues and have also reached solutions. In particular, I would like to say that this applies to the harmonisation with the law on public servants and the harmonisation of transitional periods, namely, the enforcement of the law, one and the other, on public servants and on salaries. We agreed on two amendments to the Public Servants Act, which would achieve this harmonisation in time. In addition, we have checked that it is not a matter of duplicating or different designation of acts on systemisation, catalogues and other sub-legislative acts referred to both. In this way, coordination has been fully achieved on this issue. The question, which remains open and remains open in some way, is whether the salaries of officials are determined by a decree of the National Assembly or so - the Secretariat for the Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, as well as part of the unions - that the salaries of officials should be determined by law itself or by special law. The applicant's position is to remain in the decision of the national assembly, however, because it is a sub-law which must be in accordance with the law. The opposite of the decision to regulate this with other laws would mean that this system is once again fragmented into a larger number of laws, which would be contrary to the basic concept and to the objectives that we want to achieve, which is that all salaries are included in the same system. Another issue has been the focus of coordination with the Law Service and legal professionals in general. In fact, the way in which the law itself applies in case it is not in time, that is to say by 1.1.2004, adopted by the law. In this case, we are determined to find out how much of the law can be implemented or in which parts of the public sector are possible by means of the legislative change that the government should propose in such a case. If the decision was to prevail that the sub-legislative level of collective communication was not implemented to the extent that the law could be brought to life, then it would be necessary to extend the period of application of the law before 1.1.2004. This is a solution that is professionally consistent. We will try, and it is therefore right to adopt the law before the end of this summer, so that a year and a half can be made available for collective negotiations at different levels. I would like, however, to point out to my fellow Members and colleagues that coordination with the social partners is running, that it has been very rich, very extensive, but that, as is known, there has not been a significant or sufficient degree of coordination, so we will continue to seek coordination until the third reading. At this afternoon's meeting, the Committee on Internal Policy has already adopted some additions that are the result of coordination after the government has introduced its law into the National Assembly. I would like to point out, however, that we have asked the union partners to submit to us all the additions that they consider, that they should be included in the law, and that the review of these supplements shows that we are not so alone that today's discussion in the second reading was not justified or that we could not reach consensus on still open issues in the process. Let me tell you what open questions this is so you can understand the weight or degree of disharmony. One of these open issues is the issue of a performance allowance. Trade unions continue to insist that performance be paid monthly and not once a year. We are willing to give in, as I have already mentioned, to pay twice a year. Another such issue is related to progress. Trade unions insist that there are no restrictions on promotion. We are in the position, so proposed at this stage, that there must be five or seven restrictions for progress, depending on whether it is a job or a title. The next question, where we are to each other only with the unions of education, education and science, is whether or not the orientation jobs are the most important anchors within which jobs will be classified, or whether these jobs are to be determined by a collective contract for the public sector or, as the trade unions propose, by law. But this applies only to the education and education unions that came with this proposal after it was already harmonised that this is a collective contract for the public sector. Let me say that the government opposes the establishment of indicative jobs by law, because this would simply change the legal concept that is based on social partnership in this part, while at the same time prolonging the adoption of the law to a large extent, probably in 2003, because it is necessary to negotiate and agree with partners, and it takes a much longer time to do so. Another requirement appears, about which we have already proposed something, and the question arises, to where. Indeed, it is simply a question of the range between the lowest and highest wages in the country. I have already said that with the correction of Table 1 we have already achieved a reduction of this range from 1:13 to 1:12. The orientation offered by the unions is 1:10. If a policy direction is adopted to reduce the ranges in future periods, it is possible to establish such mechanisms in the next two budgetary two years, which means from 2004 to 2008. Such mechanisms can be put in place if the decision is taken to reduce the ranges in advance. So much for that. I would say that negotiations with trade unions continue, that we will try to reach consensus on these still open issues and that it is therefore not true that we are so much to each other or that this law is adopted in a way that we are fully ignoring the social partnership, the truth is exactly the opposite. It is true, however, that we have not been able to reach a common signing of the declaration of degree of coordination, because at some point, at some point, the union decision to refuse to discuss it has prevailed at some point. I therefore propose that we proceed with the law in the manner proposed by the amendments adopted by the Internal Policy Committee, to pay attention not only to the textual work but to the material relationship, to what is one of the key objectives of the law, to the relationship between the individual paying groups, and to support the law in the second reading, so that it can then be supplemented by additional, ex-post consents with the social partners until the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The rapporteur for the committee will be President, Mr Lavrinc. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much. It was meant differently and the rapporteur of the Committee, who was appointed, is now elsewhere. First of all, I must say that the professional service is trying to get a report on the table - I hope this will be brief, because this is actually the third report in the second reading of this law, the law on the public sector wage system. First of all, I asked them to carefully review this review of the amendments you received today at the table, because the committee has withdrawn some of its amendments at today's meeting, when it was the third time that it has actually addressed this law. I will continue with the fact that the Committee, as it was concluded, delivered an opinion during the first and second readings. Unfortunately, I must conclude that the Members have been ill-visited, so much more so by the unions. However, there are specific, substantive discussions, other than some professional discussions, such as a Master's degree [[…]] [[Incomprehensible.]] and some others, there were none of them. [[…]] A full record of this public presentation of opinions is available. In the first part, the Committee first identified itself or listened to the opinion, what the proposer had to say and what the representative of the secretariat had to say, which also made a great deal of effort to follow these rapid changes. Since the government adopted a number of conclusions at yesterday's correspondence meeting and some new amendments replacing the amendments discussed on the Committee, after consulting the heads of all the parliamentary groups for this afternoon, I convened a meeting. On the committee, we decided to withdraw all the amendments of the committee that the Committee has formulated as its own. One is that we voted only on the withdrawal, namely the amendments – if I go in line, on Articles 4, 5, 8, and, of course, on the amendment to Article 3. Then we replaced our amendments, the amendments of the Committee from the previous meeting: amendment to Article 2, amendment to Article 5, to Articles 7, 12, 13. Once this amendment review is ready, the matter will be much more transparent and more manageable. The content was that, as the minister said, the government had been talking to union partners during this time and came to some common positions, so the committee at today's meeting concluded that it was wise to withdraw its amendments and support the amendments of governments that are here and are in line with the social partners. The Committee considered that Annex 2 should be amended; this is where you have columns in the direction of even greater tightening. After the amendment, which you will receive when it is finalized, contains quite a lot of indents and about each indent we voted on separately, it was first - if I say mainly - that we are the highest evaluated in these tables, that was, according to the Prime Minister's proposal, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, we have reduced some of these steps and thus, of course, we have come to even more, according to our judgment, a smart relationship. At the same time, it may be necessary to say that the Committee has also adopted an additional decision imposing on the Government to consider, by the third reading of the bill, the possibility of further reducing these relations in the transitional and final provisions, so as to follow what we all in this society, and perhaps a little more explicitly, are fighting. To be, as our constitution says, a social state. As a result, because we were pushing to say, individual items in this second annex, of course, we also had to correct the first annex. That would be essential to me, what happened today at the board meeting itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. However, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs would like to point out that, even after the amendments tabled by the applicants, there are still some unresolved legal issues that relate in particular to the determination of wages as a right by law and, in view of the possible subsequent transfer of competences to the sphere of social partners, and in this connection also to the types of acts which this law clearly considers to be acts under law. This should take account of the fact that this law regulates salaries for both public sector officials and employees. We also note in particular the problem of the transitional period, which needs to be further verified in terms of its feasibility and consistency also with the reform in the field of public servants and that of the new law, which will need to be addressed, noted, further very carefully in the third reading and overcome any further concerns.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? First of all, Mr Vizjak, the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much, President or Vice President, for your word. A nice welcome to the government's representatives. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we have repeatedly warned that wage ratios in the public sector must be regulated. We have warned about this at the time of the annual adoption of the budget, because we are aware that this is an important issue that affects, in particular, the financial capacity or the budget of the State and the financing of other projects. The pressure of individual groups on wages breaks the relationship, of course causing a chain reaction elsewhere, bringing certain criminal relationships. Some groups in the public sector are, of course, stronger, more media-friendly and, of course, easier to achieve. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to settle these wage ratios, to settle them as soon as possible. Of course, that is why we, too, agree with solving this problem. Unfortunately, though, despite the repeated warnings, the government has wasted a great deal of time needlessly. Last year has practically passed all year without anything more serious being done towards the agreement reached on the public sector wage system. A lot of time has been lost. Now he is ruling on the door, on the nose of this national assembly and force, and he is also putting pressure on all social partners in this social dialogue into some kind of haste and in the design of bad and inadequate solutions. I think that this is a bad way to solve such a complicated and complex problem, which concerns substantially more than 150,000 employees, also requires insight and also requires the issue of financing other projects involved. So we don't think that this is the right way to go, to go to the neck, to force some solutions on the nose, and there was enough time to find the right solution. It is also a basic observation to the government that this path, as well as many times so far, has behaved, as it has been, that in recent times, just before the laborers, when the water is running down its throat, it is looking for solutions. These solutions are, as a rule, bad solutions that are likely to cost us a lot and cause us enormous problems in the future. We are opposed to this, and we are not in favour of that. Last but not least, we have adopted in this National Assembly the rules of procedure of the National Assembly, which should ensure a more corrective, efficient and better decision-making in this National Assembly. It is with this document, which the government today is forcing at an extraordinary session, that it violates everything we want to do, violates and forces us into some kind of bad decision-making, where I see that the committee is writing amendments, writing indents, regulating some payroll groups here and there, instead of achieving this by social partners with social dialogue, as all developed Europe and, of course, developing the world do. Here, however, politicians who are being abused in one way or another will look for solutions and go beyond what is a stable and only right path, this is social dialogue. The fact is that coordination is not, as the Minister has already pointed out, nor is there a certain degree of coordination, but there is virtually nothing that could be the basis for decision-making in this National Assembly. Just some government proposals, some government amendments that we have never seen before, and some amendments to the board that we have not seen before. Forgive me, this is for deciding on such important issues as salaries in the public sector, such as the salaries of doctors, such as the salaries of many other public servants, such as the salaries of police officers and of course others, it is quite too small and too weak a travel agent, that of course we will do something quality for them in the future as we may have stomach pain, if we eat an immature apple, we will probably also have a headache and many more if we accept these inappropriate solutions in this law. However, the inadequate solutions are not because they are, for example, controversial, but because they are not in line with the social partners or with those who are also the ones that are the ones that are the ones that are the most engulfed. Of course, the government is in a hurry at this point mainly because of this so-called infamous annex, which falls into force 30.4.2002, this is an annex to the collective agreement on education and education. However, I believe that in this annex there is a provision that these supplements or the consequences of this annex will not be paid only in the case of or only in the event of adequate harmonisation of public sector wages. That's not the case, and that's not the way it is with this solution. This rush of government seems completely unnecessary to me, because even if we force a solution here, of course it will not solve the problem that arises with 30.4. In the Social Democratic Party, we will not support bad solutions, we will not support such solutions that are inconsistent with the social partners, nor will we support such solutions that violate the decisions already taken in this National Assembly. In this National Assembly, we have taken a decision years ago, or the previous term of office of this National Assembly has taken a decision to monitor all documents, including a declaration of consistency or a degree of coordination. The law in the second reading does not have this statement, and we are in breach again of something that we agreed on years ago and which is certainly a good way and a journey for an appropriate solution. Nor is this, and this also indicates some inappropriate conduct. I would also like to draw attention to what is just as worrying me. In spite of all the efforts, legal system issues have also not been resolved, which the Secretariat is drawing attention to, in fact, not to social dialogue. In short, this bill is incomplete, because there is no consistency with the unions, in fact, negotiations have only just started well. At the same time, there are legal issues that are unresolved. This law has not matured for second reading, so we will not support it in the Socialist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-17-SDZ3-Izredna-16.ana.u9	Thank you very much. It'll be 6:00 in two minutes and we'll be done for today. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we continue to present the opinions of the groups of Members, the United List, Mr Potrč, and DeSUS, Mr Celigoj, and Mrs Zupanova from New Slovenia, Mr Vnučec also, Mr Podobnik. Okay, thanks. We now know what is the order of the presentation of the parliamentary groups for tomorrow at 10 a.m. Allow me before we interrupt this extraordinary session, we will be given a new review of the amendments tomorrow, so there will be no confusion as to what is now, what is happening or what we decide to have a really clear picture of what we are deciding. That's how I specifically warn you. As it is known, two of our colleagues, Mr Peterle and Mr Jakič, were elected to two important functions. To them, the President of the National Assembly will arrange the reception immediately in the lobby. Thank you very much for your attention.
