ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen! Good morning and good morning. I begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend this morning's meeting with the following Members and Members: Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Milan Kopushar for the morning part of the session, Franz Lenko for the morning part, Rudolf Moje for the beginning, Yuri Malovra until 12 noon. That would be as far as the planned absence is concerned. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Put your cards in! Insert cards and press "quorum" I find there are 55 MPs present. [[...]] That's how the assembly is concluded, it can decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister for European Affairs Dr. Potočnik and colleagues are invited to attend today's meeting. I welcome everyone. Yesterday following the conclusion of the meeting of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure Commission and the Infrastructure and Environment Committee met. The Rules of Procedure Commission has, however, concluded its consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure, with a report and also a review of the amendments, which will include the amendments announced, by individual parliamentary groups. Because of this point, as has been announced, we will not be considering today and I propose that the assembly deal with it at 10 a.m. tomorrow. By the way, yesterday at 11 a.m., the meeting was closed. A number of amendments have been announced, and so there is virtually no conditions for us to begin now with the Rules of Procedure, because the report is not yet ready, the amendments are not yet ready and we cannot discuss this in practice, we have already announced this. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has not concluded its discussion on the proposal for an annual road map for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002. He'll pick it up tomorrow at 6 p.m. This point would be considered below. If it's decided that way, it could be Friday at 10:00. This will start today's 14th session of the National Assembly with the consideration of the broken 2nd item, this is the European Commission's regular report on the progress made by the Republic of Slovenia in the integration into the European Union in 2001. Then we would move on to the treatment of the interrupted 10th point, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products, as well as substances coming into contact with food, and then on to the 22nd point, and in order to proceed. With regard to the agreement of the parliamentary groups on the work of the assembly this week, I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal for the assembly to also meet on Friday 29 March 2002 from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. So, a procedural proposal for the assembly to meet on Friday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. We are voting on this procedural proposal. Let's vote, please! Of the 67 present, 30 voted against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that this proposal is not adopted. Allow me to inform you of another Lady and gentlemen! [[...]] Can I have your attention, please? I would also like to inform you of one pleasant thing. In fact, at the European Skiing Parliamentarians' Competition, the Grand-Salalaloma National Assembly team won second place. [[Let's hear it.]] So they represented us, as I can see, like this. The fourth was Pavel Rupar, the fifth Roman Jakič, the sixth Mirko Zamernik, the ninth Dušan Vukko and the thirteenth Miran Jerič. Very good. [[Let's hear it.]] But now we're on agenda two. Ladies and gentlemen! I ask for peace in the hall, if possible. So, yesterday we started 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a regular report by the European Commission on the progress of the Republic of Slovenia in the integration into the European Union in the year 2001 and concluded with the opening statement by the representative of the Government. I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. Please, on behalf of the united list, Mrs. Potter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. The European Commission's regular report on Slovenia's progress towards integration into the European Union in 2001 is seen in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats as a confirmation of Slovenia's efforts to meet the political and economic criteria for admission to the European Union, to ensure the ability to assume the obligations of membership and the judicial and legal capacity set by the European Council in Madrid, so that it can ensure the coherent implementation of the policies of the European Union by adapting its administrative structure. Since the assessment of progress takes into account the comparison with the 2000 report, the implementation of the Accession Partnership Association Agreement and the fact that it is based on legislation adopted and not on legislation that is at various stages of preparation or adoption in Parliament, on measures actually implemented and on other sources, the report is a very real assessment of the progress made last year. Therefore, the more important the report's conclusion is that Slovenia has made good progress in all areas, while continuing to meet all political and economic criteria. In individual areas of commitment, membership has made remarkable progress, although they are on the other side of the area where progress is slightly smaller. The Group of the United Nations Social Democrats supports the conclusions proposed by the European Affairs Commission to the Assembly for its adoption, together with the conclusions drawn from the opinions of the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. At the same time, in the framework of the political criteria, it seems important to see the progress of public administration reform as a priority in the adoption of important laws that will ensure professional, impartial, responsible and effective public administration. Therefore, the adoption of the laws contained in this package is of paramount importance to our Group of Members. The positive assessment of respect for human rights and freedoms is linked to the introduction of free legal aid, as well as to the increased powers of the Office for equal opportunities, which now cover equal opportunities issues in general. By adopting a national social protection programme aimed at raising standards for the protection of persons with disabilities within the framework of social rights, and in particular by involving trade unions in the process of adopting legislation and ratifying the completed social instrument. Already ratified major international instruments in the field of minority protection are joining in. All of this is an important basis for a favourable assessment of progress but remains an unrealistic transposition of anti-discrimination legislation related to Article 13 of the Treaty establishing the European Community. The report finds satisfactory Slovenian compliance with the acquis of the European Union in the common foreign and security policy, while Slovenian relations with neighbouring countries are assessed as good. However, the agreements reached by the Slovenian and Croatian governments on the Krška nuclear power plant and the delimitation of the remaining parts of the land and sea borders have not yet been ratified. However, addressing these issues is essential for the United List of Social Democrats to consolidate and develop bilateral relations. Since the report covers three quarters of last year, and we are only dealing with it now, progress has already been made in a number of ways. However, the backlog is still large, if not too large, in translating European legislation into Slovenian. We are obliged to translate different legal texts into accession. However, the scope of the work and the necessary quality of the translation do not indicate that the requirement will be met at the current pace. Therefore, translation needs to be accelerated because translations have a very useful value and, above all, a great symbolic significance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, please. Then follow Mr Podobnik and Mr Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	Honourable President, Honourable Minister and Government representatives! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I express our priority, and I hope that the priority of this country also comes after the earliest and, of course, the most qualitative approximation possible and also after the European Community's negotiation processes. The Social Democratic Party has already written in its strategic documents decades ago that this is its priority, and Slovenia too, the real country and also all political parties have identified a positive and, of course, also committed themselves to an effective way of taking over and of course coordinating Slovenian legislation with European Community legislation. Why am I saying this? This is because there are increasingly visible and visible differences and imbalances between what the official representatives of the parties, political parties, including some of the largest coalition parties say, and what their electoral body or what actual public support is to these projects. Unfortunately, we need to see that public support, not only to bring Slovenia closer to NATO, but also to bring Slovenia closer to the European Community, falls and is at a critical point. I think that this is also the responsibility of those political parties who, by way of decree, advocate Slovenia's approach to the European Community and in fact their electoral body or their electorate think otherwise. A number of available public research and, of course, the views of some representatives of the parties show that they are very skeptical here, in particular, the United List and the Slovenian People's Party. I warn and believe that there is a need in this area, in the field of public opinion and, of course, also in the area of clear involvement of political parties and the government to do much, especially in the field of public opinion, so that we do not have any major problems later on. Bringing Slovenia closer to the European Community and this report is not only useful and good for bringing Slovenia closer to this integration, but also especially for the Slovenians themselves. Because this aligns Slovenia's legal order with the legal order of the developed countries, countries that recognise the market economy recognise socialism and also recognise the achievements of long-standing democracy. And I believe that this is also our priority objective, of course to summarize and take over these solutions, which have proved successful and true in traditional democracies. It is worth noting, however, that it is primarily from the observations and reports that are available to us Members and, of course, also to the public, that everything is not as brilliant as it is on the outside, because our negotiators have not actually shimmered in some cases. This is particularly true in the area of agriculture and, of course, in the area of regional policy. I think that some other countries have chosen a more favourable position here than Slovenia, so I think it would be necessary to make some criticisms at the expense of the negotiators and probably also to prepare everyone for these negotiations. From the report of the branch, in particular this so-called regulatory regime. And I wonder what's going to happen to the execution. Let me draw attention only to one and a very important segment of social cohesion or the social field. This is the establishment or establishment and preparation of the European Social Fund, as we see here that preparations for work are too slow. In particular, the overall structure of the implementation of the Structural and Cohesion Funds after accession has not been defined. We must be aware that opportunities and opportunities are waiting for us here, and we are not on them today, and I doubt that we will be able to begin to draw on funds at the time of entry and entry, and of course we will be able to do so immediately, but not with some backlog, for due to inadequate pre-preparation we will be in a certain time frame. Here I think that is not enough done and I think that more should be done here in a very short time. I would also like to highlight another important segment of this progress report. This is mainly a segment of employment that has been felt more and more by citizens of Slovenia lately. In 2000, the Government or the Minister of Labour signed a joint assessment of the employment priorities, with which we have somehow aligned these employment priorities. I must say that monitoring the implementation of these priorities is not in the proper implementation and, of course, it is difficult to talk about some progress and some more appropriate employment policy, which is, of course, reflected in the annual budget at the end. According to information, Member States have annual monitoring of priorities in this area and, of course, there is a sense of progress and of how these joint employment tasks are carried out. This is not the case in Slovenia and, of course, we expect more appropriate work in the Social Democratic Party, especially the Ministry of Labour in this field. In short, the progress report is good, even by the number of closed chapters, Slovenia is first. However, I must point out that and that there will be too little action in the field of implementation of the adopted laws from the so-called area of approximation of the European Community, because we are prescribing and adopting something, but we are obviously doing a lot more and significantly slower than it should be. Finally, I would like to highlight one of the interesting points that the report considers. In particular, the European Commission's 2001 progress report also identifies indications that are not entirely accurate. For example, in chapter 28, we boast that the new law on the Court of Auditors has achieved financial independence. In fact, this financial independence has already been achieved through the adoption or financial independence of the Court of Auditors, of course, by the fact that the Court of Auditors is financially independent and that the budget is adopted by the National Assembly, which was done in 1994 by law and was merely a cosmetic or no correction by the law adopted last year. This concerns us somewhat, for the fact that the report is based on information that is not accurate. I believe that there is probably not enough control over what our own prepares in these reports, and then what such reports do in the end sneak up on. In short, I would like to point out that some of the negotiating weaknesses arising from the negotiations, particularly in the agricultural field and also in the area of regional policy, will and will already appear, and I hope that Slovenian citizens, in particular Slovenian agriculture, will not feel too much about these mistakes on their skin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik has the floor, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government, headed by the Minister Dr. Potočnik! Yesterday, in his performance, the minister said, "There is nothing more in hope, nothing more is the goal, but the determination to do so." It is said that the process, the decision-making of Slovenia's entry into the European Union is in some way an irreversible process, of course if we so wish, if Slovenian citizens and citizens so wish at the referendum. The European Union has decided to take us into its circle - if that is what we want. The Slovenian People's Party Group estimates that this agenda item is very important. We attach to the opinion of the President of the European Commission, Mr Peterlet, that it is a shame, in fact, that it is a waste of the opportunity, that not all the working bodies of the national assembly have considered this report very in detail, and then today may have suggested some additional views and conclusions. I would also like to make a very positive assessment of yesterday's performance by my colleague Peterlet, and on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I would like him to succeed in his candidacy to become a representative of the countries entering the European Union, i.e. a representative in the Presidency of the Convention. I'm sure he has good references to make it work. When I was actually preparing for this performance today - I must admit that I expected that there would be a second item on the agenda, but now it is this - I went very carefully through all the additional or through all the proposals proposed by the mother's working body, of course we support them in the parliamentary group. Allow me to comment on them for a moment. The first conclusion is that this report reflects the real state of readiness of the Republic of Slovenia to join the European Union. It seems interesting to me that it should be stressed that this represents a real state. Did any of the previous reports present a less realistic situation? This formulation could also be a criticism of the views of the European Union on some of the previous regular reports. I'd like to touch the role of the negotiating team here. I am sure that Slovenia has a competent negotiating team, headed by the Minister for European Affairs and the highest negotiating minister. Maybe that's what you forget sometimes. They need to acknowledge that they are doing their job well. In some areas, we may sometimes estimate that, for strategic or tactical reasons, they give in, but because they have a global solution to negotiate well in all areas, such a decision is sometimes acceptable. The Committee on Foreign Policy, which also meets as a rule, is under-controversy; when we received interim reports at negotiating points, we sometimes highlighted this position. Just the speed, just the record being the first isn't the key criterion. The key criterion for negotiating within a realistically possible is a good starting point for the Slovenian State. Public opinion. Yesterday, the Minister said, in the European Union, support for enlargement is increasing, while in the candidate countries it is gradually falling. The minister also estimates that this fall will slowly stop, that we are already at the bottom and will then slowly turn back. Here I would like to touch the lobby of the Slovenian People's Party as a government party. The Slovenian People's Party remains a strong member of the government team, the government project, Slovenia's entry into the European Union. At the same time, the Slovenian People's Party, through its departments and through its political work, does not close the door to those who may have concerns that have fears that have scepticism before entering the European Union. We want to give competent answers to their questions. Persuasive answers. So we don't reject fear either. This is particularly true for all the issues related to the most difficult negotiations, namely regional policy, agriculture, and partly the state budget, which is in fact also linked to the possibility of helping the Slovenian economy. The second decision proposed by the mother labour body is that we call on all the competent institutions of the Republic of Slovenia to take appropriate measures to achieve the objective set. This decision has already been commented by my colleague Peterle. And he also explained that it was not only for all government institutions, but also for some that were parastatal. We suggest they're listed. If this is essentially the last report, why not mention all these important institutions with their names. This would increase our shared responsibility. If possible, even within the framework of this Decision and if the government may have information on which institutions are concerned, we could do so today. It is very important for us to conclude that the government should speed up the reform of public administration. This is where I touch the work of the National Assembly. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the committee led by my colleague Lavrinc is simply overloaded. According to our assessment, almost a third of the agenda items will be awarded to its committee and it will be necessary to prepare priorities and give priority to the so-called reform package of the public administration, to take perhaps a few days for its committee to do so in peace and then perhaps a single meeting of the national assembly to convene on this very subject. This will be the most complex issue that the National Assembly will address in this year's first half without any doubt from a professional and political point of view. The fifth decision discusses the full use of available resources within European policies. However, the Committee on Economics, led by counterpart Feri Horvat, added something else regarding regional policy. Here I would like to express, once again in this place, the position of the Group of Members, or to comment on some guidelines, that the decision on the establishment of the provinces is linked to the requirements of the European Union. That's not true. High representatives of the European Commission, when they were in Ljubljana, also told us publicly. This does not, of course, mean that it is not necessary to think carefully about the issue of the use of available resources within European policies and funds. Some colleagues are better aware of the preparation of regional development programmes. I personally know very well from Savinja region and from Goriška. I read both of them. These regional development programmes are essentially a key strategic partnership between all the actors that are creating development policy in these regions. Everyone also tells me to our fellow Members that unfortunately there is no upgrade in the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia in these regional development programmes. This is one of the very important topics, and I hope that we will also get from the government representatives an explanation of what this year's call for assistance was made by the Ministry of Economy, which creates A, B and C criteria on the basis of which statistical regions are classified as being able to receive additional funds already in the preparation of the so-called implementation programmes under these regional programmes. For example, the Goriška region, which is very successful because of the mountain area, is in stage C, and there is also the Tolminska and Baška Grapa, which is fully nourished and therefore looks like it will fall out of these calls for this year. These are the development paradoxes that were born here in our home. I would like to touch another question called the change of constitution. The amendment of the Constitution in the so-called European Article is, in some elements, essential to the issues that we are dealing with today. In addition to other topics which are international law, I would like to raise another question, which is called the situation of the national Parliament in the future European Union. At this point, I would like to reiterate my position, which I have already raised in the public presentation of opinions, within the framework of the Group of Members, that - and here I also ask the representatives of the Government, perhaps also a colleague of Peterlet - when we consider in the Constitutional Commission a proposal to amend the Constitution in the complex of the so-called European Article, whether it would be inappropriate to think, even as a Parliament, about the addition of Article 87 of the Constitution, which deals with the legal competence of the National Assembly, and in order to define more clearly the participation of the legislative body in the formulation of the Slovenian policy in relation to the European Community. It is known that a number of meetings of bodies of the European Community referred to the so-called democratic deficit. This means that, in fact, the executive power over legislation prevails. And the constitutionally defined role of the National Assembly in regulating European matters would, in our view, be to partially compensate for such a deficit. Yesterday, my colleague Peterle referred mainly to Europe as a Europe of citizens, citizens and citizens of Europe, but in what way should citizens and citizens of Europe believe in the concept of such a Europe if the role of their national parliaments is to be reduced; how will citizens and citizens of Europe articulate their expectations - no doubt also through national parliaments. And that I will not be too long - otherwise I would have some specific questions, but I do not want to be too long - I would like to stress one more aspect that has not yet been opened in the performance of the government representative. I ask whether you are assessing that the transformation of the Republic of Slovenia mission to the European Union, the constitutional representation of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union, is in fact one of the very important elements that Slovenia will already, in these years, be, in fact, a permanent representation that will be well teamed up, which will have an ambassador who will be a good coordinator, who will be a lobbyist, who will have good relations with representatives of the European institutions and, in particular, a permanent good relationship with representatives of the Slovenian Government, or whether you estimate that this mission will be recast as soon as possible and in this way also allow the negotiating team to negotiate well with the three more important chapters ahead of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, colleague of Peca. You have the floor. You will be followed by a colleague of Kacin, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Allow me to interrupt for a moment this enthusiasm and these praises, which were sang and presented by representatives of the political parties represented in this national assembly, before me. It has also been said and written in the report itself, namely the progress report that Slovenia can at this time talk about real progress; we are talking about progress at the political, economic, economic level, in short, that we are "oh and ah" in all areas; that we are among all associated members of the number of filled classes or criteria alone number one so that we can all together and, more importantly, applaud ourselves, in short, that we are wonderful. But for what? Allow me to go in line and say first of all about the material that we have received in the form of the Rapporteur or which is also in the form of the Rapporteur. Yes, we can take note of these praises of yours. What does that mean to anyone except that some of you have a sense of real importance to Europe - I don't know. In the Slovenian National Party, we find these things, such as the report, these praises and the touchstone for which you, of course, have achieved this, too great for this country. For this, our country, which has somehow reached the end of the transition path in ten years, towards the end of that path where we are supposed to create a stable country, and only in my opinion, once we have a stable country, could we begin to negotiate as an equal partner as a partner in an international entity with integration in a way that is not only an objective for us to enter European integration, but also through European integration to achieve something. I think that the fundamental error, both of this Parliament and of all governments so far, within the framework of Slovenia alone, is that the exclusive objective is to enter the European Union, not through the European Union and other international integrations, to achieve something more for this country. In reviewing this material, I think, with big words on closed chapters and similar things, it is very reasonable to stop right in front of the report, which was also praised by the Commission for European Affairs, which addressed the material and sent a number of additional conclusions to the National Assembly. Allow me to stop, in particular, at point 3 or third. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will continue to give priority to the examination of European laws. Ladies and gentlemen! We're just passing European laws. We have forgotten at all that this Parliament is the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia and that it should basically adopt Slovenian laws, those which would reflect on the standard, the lives of our citizens, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, and not those who accept you on your visits and the delegations you carry out abroad. We do not adopt laws so that foreigners, at least according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, will blink and tell us: "Yes, good Slovenians, but now you have closed another chapter." But it doesn't matter what it costs at home. It doesn't matter which segment of the nationals of the Republic of Slovenia we have connected or made their lives in our country at this time, and also, according to my assessment, even in the future much harder. Just so you'll hear "you were good, you were good." And of course, the fourth decision of the home labour body, which says: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the government to speed up the reform of public administration, establish the necessary institutions for the implementation of the EU acquis and ensure an adequate administrative capacity." Ladies and gentlemen! It is already within the public administration, i.e. those who consume money for their salaries through the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, 156,500 citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. 156,500 of them work in more or less connected institutions, in government or in different offices. And now to freshly increase this number, which is already above 20%, no, but it seems to us in the Slovenian National Party a complete absurdity and even humiliation of those people who work in production, an economy that creates new value that allows you to walk around Europe, walk around the world and that, on the other hand, these same people are being destroyed. In Slovenia, unfortunately, at this point we are being opened or appeared to us by sentences in almost all areas that mean something in this country. Why? Dissatisfaction with his own domestic dissatisfaction. Not because they are not sure how we will enter the European Union. But because their standard of living is worse from moment to moment in our country. And you here, I don't know who you're bluffing, probably yourself, because I don't believe anyone else is buying these ideas, "we're one of the most successful countries." But that I won't be too long and that I may not give you time to think. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, the conclusions proposed by the working body cannot be supported. We find them offensive to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. However, as far as we are concerned, or the European Commission progress report for 2001, we have taken note of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. The last from the list of representatives of the parliamentary groups is Comrade Jelko Kacin. He will present the position of the Group of Members of Liberal Democracy, and then they will receive the word of a Member and Members, in order of Kelemina, Juri, Horvat. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The European Commission's regular report on the progress of Slovenia's integration into the European Union in 2001 is eloquent. Slovenia is successful on this path. It is more successful than other candidate countries, and these are irrefutable facts. There are, of course, things that are valid on this occasion specifically highlighted. It seems unnecessary for us to in some way belittle our work, both the countries and this national assembly. We are the only Parliament among the candidate countries to be so deeply involved in efforts to join the European Union. Therefore, in our case, it is not possible to talk about a democratic deficit. Many are democratic deficits in countries that are already members of the European Union, and there is certainly a democratic deficit in other candidate countries, where at least those who have contact with fellow parliamentarians of candidate countries find that many do not know what their government is doing, do not know negotiating points and do not know what is actually going on, even though they are adopting European legislation. Well, of course, it is a kind of challenge to realize that we have managed to do all of this so far without too much delay. But I don't know if that's going to happen in the future. I think the Minister made it clear yesterday that the work we need to do by the end of September is going to be relatively small. We don't have to negotiate either, because most of the chapters are already closed, so that, according to my assessment in the coming months, we have a kind of challenge ahead of us, and above all, there is a kind of challenge for Minister Janez Potočnik, who can now no longer be burdened with negotiations, but in particular with the coordination of government work. The National Assembly is able to process and adopt many things here, if the Government's proposals are professional and if they are harmonised. However, if they are not harmonised, if they are not professional, a serious correction is needed. And then the National Assembly needs much more time to adopt this legislation. I am not sure that the government has always shown up with its projects, which it has also brought to the national assembly under the European programme. Therefore, I think it is important to stress at this point that there is even less room for manoeuvre in the timeframe that awaits us by September, in order to improve the government's projects in the National Assembly. So let me say something else on this occasion that is not directly related to this item of the agenda and how it concerns our role in the European Union. And that's the size of our national council. I am sure that the 90 Members in the future, when we become members of the European Union, will not be able to do all the work that awaits us. At that time, work in the European Union will become a domestic segment, and this will no longer be an international activity. And then, believe me, a large number of Members will be permanently absent from cooperation within Europe. I am not talking about the members of the European Parliament, I am talking about our Members. That is why it seems to me that, in the face of this tribulation, the time pressure that we will be subjected to in the coming weeks and months is the right moment to realize that it is necessary to reconsider whether 90 Members are sufficient for this country to function and that we, too, do not find ourselves in a situation called democratic deficit. It's just a challenge for all the customers. I personally believe that we need more Members because the work in a country of 2 million people is just as much as in a country of 200 million people. Our National Assembly, the number of Members, is not enough. We can afford to hire more government officials. We can also hire more officials in the National Assembly. But we can't hire any more Members. Certain changes should therefore be made and a political consensus should therefore be reached in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Mr Peterle will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Does any other group then want a word? [[No, no, ……]] As it is said, Mrs. Kelemina, Yuri, Horvath and Jerovšek will perform. First, my friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary with the team! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Probably there is no need to repeat on behalf of New Slovenia the European idea of a Slovenian heart. I would, however, like to put on behalf of the Group of Members in a position where the government and all those involved in this project are in an extremely difficult final phase, some issues relating to what the European Commission report still refers to as questionable, incomplete or referring to as areas of weak progress. I, or we are not interested in details here, but it is about such big things as reform of public administration, such as our attitude towards regionalisation, the question of justice, the attitude towards competition or competitiveness, the attitude towards the economy, with particular emphasis on, as the report says, persistent inflation. Work will have to be done in all these areas or projects. And since there are eminent government representatives here with us, in ministerial, secretarial or similar status, I would like to have precise answers on behalf of the Group of Members on these key issues. How the government imagines that it will carry out matters in the areas I have mentioned in this final. I think your answers are, or that the representation is, so that he can give these answers. I suppose or expect them to speak honestly and accurately as far as possible. They may have some special messages regarding priorities for the National Assembly. In fact, I am asking this on behalf of New Slovenia because, for example, the area of public administration, where there has been no special progress for years, and we know that for such a project you need real years to put everything in there work well, so what is the idea that in one year now what is almost a decade away? That, I think, is a very serious question and it's good that we all have it right in front of us. The same is true of other matters that I have listed and will not repeat. Of course, there are also some flowers in the report that talk about where they might not have read exactly what they wrote to us. That is also how we have - I hope that this is a lapsus - also a sentence that the judiciary still works independently with us; I do not know who is preparing for it. And a few things like that, you could say something like that. But let's just leave it in the brackets. However, I am asking for answers to the key questions that lie ahead of us as not yet completed projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Peterle. Does any other group of Members wish to communicate their views before I give the floor to Members and Members? [[None.]] Then I conclude the debate on the groups of Members. I am moving on to the debate between Members and Members. I would like to inform you that I have registered colleagues from Kelemino, Yuri, Horvata, Jerovska, Soka and colleague of Dr Bernik. For debaters who will be able to speak indefinitely, while I limit all other performances to 5 minutes. First of all, my friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! In this regular report of the European Commission, a few of my comments on our work are possible, of course, because we need to understand that the European Commission's report is not a document that we have probably drawn up, but it has been prepared by a Commission that examines what we have done so far in this area or how far we are in these negotiations or the integration of Slovenia into the European Union. That's to be understood. So that all the critical things that we are saying about this report today are actually kind of a suggestion and comments on what Slovenia should actually do and how it should speed up certain matters in specific areas, so that we will, of course, be ready in time for entry into the European Community. So that, of course, it is not misunderstood that we are now criticising the report. No, we don't criticize the report as such. The report is objectively based on what the European Commissioners or the European Commission have found. I'd say, I think that's what I'd say. The European Union or the European Union, as you wish, is a truly large institution of European countries, which, perhaps because of some of the negative effects of recent times in our country, does not really need to be in its own kind of Slovenia, probably some economic power, not even because of some other elements, but simply because we live in Europe and therefore the European Community wants all European nations living in Europe to be included in this Union. And I think that this is a great move and a great willingness of the European Union as one that is prepared in its kind, where there are rules, to adopt also some other European countries, which have not in the past had this opportunity to be in this group, to say something like that of privileged countries. The second question is how this report is drawn up. The report is certainly based on what our country or our government and our representatives are, that is, what material our representatives have given to the European Commission for study. This is the result of the European Commission's report, where they assess what we have achieved in this area. Here, of course, the question is whether all this information, which is our authority, our government, our country has given to the European Commission. I myself find that in some areas some things may have been misrepresented. Surely, we have different views on these matters, which is completely understandable. Maybe all things aren't the most objective. Maybe next time we're talking about some sort of case. So, once again, I will point out that you are actually the European Union, the European Union somehow wants some other countries in its vicinity. Of course, we must strive that because of the unequal situation we have in the European Community, we try to negotiate with our representatives certain quotas, certain positions that also provide us with a transitional period, so that we can better participate in this process of highly European developed countries, where we will be able to act equally in order to avoid what some emphasise, possibly some shock or the exploitation of the European Community, Slovenia or, in any event, negative effects. So, negotiations are extremely important. Here I would like to express one criticism that we have probably in the past, if we look at the negotiations of some other members or candidates for membership in the European Community, that we have overreached in these negotiations in the past and that we have made much too much promise. Some other European countries, or larger countries, by their economic power and by their size and so on, have provided themselves with some better positions. Only when we look at the change in the constitution and so on and so forth have we overreached on some things. And that is no longer possible today, and these are the consequences and the price that we will have to pay in addition because we do not have the best negotiating points or have not negotiated best for certain matters. This is just one such general comment. I am firmly convinced that many can agree with her. We could go over these things, but what other candidates have achieved, of course, and what we have achieved, we would find a lot of comparison. This comparison is not here in these documents because it is a report from the European Commission. But if we did this ourselves, we would also see what we negotiated and what we did not negotiate or what others did better. Now, if I go straight from this report, I just pull a few things out, then we certainly can't go beyond certain findings of the European Commission, let's say that we meet the political criteria of our country, where they describe that this process is progressing positively and that we meet these criteria. Perhaps so, seemingly, but certainly this democracy in Slovenia, as well as the political system as such, is not yet at European level in many respects and there will be a lot more to be done, although the Commission in this area does not criticise us somehow. In fact, here you are also talking about what I was kind of laughing at, this dictatorship, for example, corruption in Slovenia remains relatively limited. In short, this is a very funny conclusion; we know that it is not that all of this is completely different. This is mentioned here, together with the rule of law and democracy, which is also mentioned as being a stable issue in this country. I have to say, it's not true. It's connected to one another. See, Members as representatives, elected people who have given us a mandate to actually take care of democracy, the rule of law in this country, and to supervise and care for it, because, for example, we are investigating certain cases where we are fighting corruption, where we are fighting abuse of positions, against the abuse of the rule of law, and then, in court, we are convicted of these proceedings, on behalf of the people for this country. But it's the rule of law? Is that democracy? Now tell me where else in Europe a state MP is being convicted because he works on a state commission, on a parliamentary commission, to investigate possible corruption or violation of the rule of law, that he is therefore convicted in a court of law? This happened to our colleague Puksic yesterday in court and this happened also to some others, but Puksic as the first member in the history of Slovenia to be convicted for investigating crimes in this country. Is that a European element? Here I just want to point out that this matter will have to be internationalised because of the event that took place in this country yesterday, and we will also internationalise it. This should not happen, and the first tasks of this country, which is, should ensure that Members have the immunity guaranteed. Who else in this country can raise any question if they don't have 100 percent immunity? So I can't let anyone who steals, who lies, who acts like that, not one person in this country can say anything, not a Member, and condemn such an act. This is unacceptable, and in this area we have certainly failed and cannot talk about ensuring democracy and ensuring the rule of law. If I continue what has already been said. For example, I am extremely disturbed by this regional policy, or if we read on page 48 in Rapporteur No 99, it is well written about regional policy and the coordination of structural instruments. "There is a mention of progress in structural policy without progress with regard to the establishment of a territorial organisation" and so on. While something has been done in this area during this time; Mr Podobnik, a Member of Parliament, a fellow Member, has spoken about this and others are likely to do too little in this area. And here I also criticise both the infrastructure committee, which covers this area in its entirety, even though I am a member of it, that to date I have not done an analysis of the enforcement of the legislation adopted in this area. He has not done any analysis and is obliged by the Rules of Procedure to monitor this, to enforce legislation, to also identify the situation in these areas and to propose to the National Assembly a policy to address these matters or to direct how the National Assembly should continue to act against the government in order to implement this policy. We didn't do it because we don't have time because we're overloaded with other things. These are so important things that we should also meet at midnight if necessary. Even at midnight. And I'm willing to sit down if we discuss things properly and find the right solutions. If not, of course, in such a way of working as we have now, I am not prepared to cooperate, because there are simply some transparent conclusions that would lead to the elimination of all these shortcomings that are taking place in this area. I would also point out this in this regional policy, in the implementation of this legislation, that much has been done, in fact. We have to admit that. It is a process, it is a new institution and so on, but still look, it is not enough to give concrete implementation of this policy itself. In fact, a huge, huge promise has been made by Slovenia on this basis, as well as to us Members of the National Assembly in the adoption of legislation in this area itself, but almost nothing and extremely little has been achieved. And I'm saying that they didn't just become promises anymore, but they became even false promises. And we're holding on to someone indefinitely, and we're promising someone, and somehow we're convincing them that this policy is going to come true, but it's not. And I don't understand that we are now doing a whole series of development programmes across Slovenia, or even if we want to - say, fully implement these programmes with implementation projects, so that these projects can cost a few billion tolars. A few billion, maybe even 5.10 billion tolars, can cost the implementation programmes when they go into implementation. But we're going to devote these funds maybe then, I don't know, 20 billion or -- I don't know when we're going to make it happen at all or when it's going to happen. In short, huge funds must be invested in the implementation or production of implementation projects, but you do not know if this programme will then be collected at any time and whether it will be realized. It's unsettling stuff. And I also expect, on the basis of this criticism that I have now expressed, that both the Economic Committee and the National Assembly will deal with these matters, of course, together with government representatives, and that these backlogs in this area, which are now listed here in the European Commission's report to eliminate them. We still have some time, but we will really need to sit down, give all the information, data on the table, and see what is real and correct, what we can expect from this project. And then there's just one more thing that I won't really take too much time. Look, here's where we have the next Rapporteur. 2: Community assistance. Look, we are not yet members of the European Union or the European Union, but as we speak, the European Union already allows us to benefit from certain pre-accession assistance. That's obvious. It allows us different programs, we have a whole series written here, and then - what do we see on the next page? And it also says here: millions of euros, as much as these things have been granted to us and so on. And what it says on the one hand: although the selection and implementation of the Phare projects, which are directly linked to the monitoring of the EU acquis, was largely satisfactory, we cannot confirm this for economic and social cohesion and for cross-border cooperation. And here it lists the whole series, see, EUR 5 million, EUR 2 million, EUR 2 million,12 million spent, and there was absolutely nothing. You can imagine, honourable Members, the European Union is offering us money, and we are not able to take advantage of it! And these funds probably went down. I don't know if you'll tell me if they failed or if they were transferred so that we can use them in the next period. Today I want to know from you who did not prepare these projects in time to make use of these funds. We are dealing with such a lack of resources in this country that this is absurd in all areas, that you know what public finances are like in our country, what problems they are in, and that we cannot get a development toll for almost no matter. And here we are missing the kindness of the European Union, which is actually offering money on a plate, and we are not taking advantage of this help. Today I want to know: why was this aid not used, who is responsible for these things, and what sanctions have been imposed with these people? We need to clear these things up, not who's responsible. If he's not responsible, tell him no one's finally responsible and we'll move on. Of course, I always wonder about these various aids and these diverse programmes. Mr. Strzemnik knows these things, he knows them much better. We also have some criteria, some peddlers, who are more eligible for a particular project. And then I ask myself hard now, if you would look at me, I mean, I firmly believe that all of this is not what it's supposed to be. If we now had a record of all these projects that have already been implemented in specific areas, we would see, for example, that some projects are being implemented in very developed environments, where managers, businessmen, individuals who can draw up appropriate programmes and who can isolate them at some state level, and perhaps even with European connections. These lobbyists exist, that's what you know. They also know about their project in a developed environment to obtain some resources, while the underdeveloped areas are on the sidelines. This can't happen. We must consistently implement - and I am not against this happening, but we must then find other instruments to help the underdeveloped parts of Slovenia, so that they will then somehow develop equally with other very developed parts of Slovenia. Here I think that there is still a lot more wrong and here I am criticising the institutions of the state or government as such that these things are placed in the place that will be in accordance with our strategies and also in accordance with our laws. Of course, there is still a whole range of other things that relate to the implementation of certain projects, such as regionalisation and so on, and others will talk about it. I won't waste any more time. I'd like you to answer these questions that I asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you, Chairman. I'll try to be shorter. First, of course, the evaluation of the report itself. I think the report has confirmed our conduct and that it is relatively beneficial. I support all the conclusions of the working bodies, the European Affairs Commission and the Economic Committee. I would also like to stress the importance of this report, which is the higher-than-higher of our relationship and our behaviour with Croatia on the issue of the interstate border. The evaluation given by the European Commission is beneficial this time and, of course, speaks to us in favour of and in favour of what we have agreed with the Croatian Government, which unfortunately has not been further confirmed. However, I would also respond to a few discussions by the predecessors, of course controversially. First of all, a colleague of Visiak, who somehow borrowed our party, the United List of Social Democrats, next to the People's. He impressed us that we are in our bases, in our electoral body, among our activists and in our leadership Eurosceptics and natosceptics and so on. Of course, we have certain concerns about NATO in the United List, but I assure you, colleagues from the Social Democratic Party, that we are very united so far about the European Union's accession project and that there are no major concerns here. This can be checked by everyone in their client, whether there is 100% unity, whether anyone has any concerns and how they are justified. That's how I believe the concerns are within Vision's client. Immediately thereafter, he criticises, as does colleague Kelemina, negotiators, if we have not negotiated better starting points, which can also be translated simply: If from now on we will not be better, if our negotiators do not fight any more and we are better able to exercise our interests, we too can of course become skeptics. We, too, have concerns, because this reduces poor negotiations, also diminishes our support in public. So we're all on the same boat, of course as the "euro" sure, but also the natoskeptik - we're not talking about Nate today, but we're talking about the European Union. My point is to negotiate with Nate. The negotiators didn't convince me if they were even negotiating. We know there haven't been a lot of negotiations. While there is a visible battle in negotiations with the European Union, there is a clear effort to make sure that our interests are exercised as much as possible, but it is understandable, of course, that we are no longer able to do so. But not because of us, but because of other interests that our power here is limited. Finally, a colleague of Vision - I'm sorry that he's not here - I'm asking if in the name of democracy someone who has doubts about this or that project can question. My client is allowed to doubt. Also a response to a fellow seal. Of course, he was quite unfriendly to those he said were walking around Europe and the world. If it is consistent with this, of course, the Slovenian National Party and all Members will then cancel throughout Europe and the European Union. As far as I know, of course even in the Slovenian National Party they travel a lot. To colleague Kacina's question, of course, to expand or not the national council. I'd be very careful here, regardless of the reasonableness of certain ideas. I think that - of course now we are in the midst of a stage of constitutional change - it would not be useful if we now opened up the question of whether this is an opportunity to go to a wider composition of the National Assembly, in particular the higher-a-vis of all concerns and criticism of the enlargement of the state administration and the state apparatus. And in the end, my colleague Kelemini. He asked, of course, who, by the way, is to blame for not using the maximum amount from the European funds. I was the mayor myself, taking part in the blame. I know that I have faced these challenges and that I have not always succeeded in my space or in a wider region by connecting with neighbouring municipalities to provide programmes that have run for time. And, of course, that money that was supposed to be there, it's gone. But that's why we came to this realization, and we're also our structures - if someone is guilty here, we find the culprit primarily in local communities, which sometimes can't do it, and they're not subjectively guilty, but also objectively guilty, because they're structures, they're lack of knowledge and so on. However, I think that our government and our negotiators are the least guilty of failing to prepare programmes in time, such as those with which we can run for these funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, chairman. It'll be more of an explanation than a replica to my colleague Yuri. He said that he compared negotiations between the European Union and negotiations on Slovenia's efforts to enter NATO. They simply cannot be compared because they are different approaches. The European Union, it is known, has a so-called acquis on which Slovenia closes certain chapters and, of course, does so on the basis of some guidelines. When entering NATO, Slovenia adopts the so-called membership action plan, whereby we define our own programmes and methods of accession to achieve the so-called partner objectives. So there's no way to compare it. And also the obvious that there are no apparent efforts by negotiators to enter Slovenia into NATO, of course they do not. Also for one particular reason: NATO's action plan is of its own nature confidential, but I can say nevertheless that it is public enough and transparent enough in Slovenia to be subject to certain, so-called democratic control. This was also witnessed by members of the Defence Committee and other interested committees, which we had the opportunity to look into these documents. And, colleague Juri, of course, if you are not already informed about how the negotiations or accession of Slovenia and the government programme in this regard are going on, I really invite you to join us on the next defence committee, when we will again have the subject of entering and addressing the so-called 'ANC', and then point your criticisms at the work of the government, either positively or negatively.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you. But the theme is not NATO, please, so Lord Yuri. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	I thank you for the invitation, of course I will come to the meeting, but I do not think that colleague Marshič understood the point of my debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you. Mr. Ferry Horvat has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, ministers, representatives and representatives of the government. First of all, I would like to express my satisfaction and gratitude to the President of the Commission for European Affairs, Members and Members, and to the Commission's Sectional Service, by summarizing the proposals for conclusions adopted by the Committee on the Economy, which focused mainly on critical assessments of individual segments of the economic situation in Slovenia. I will not comment on these conclusions, because this is not necessary, but I would focus on some of the issues that will be the subject of our further attention, both in the Committee on the Economy and I think they should be in the government. And these are the following questions. The first area of regional policy. I agree that the situation is still not satisfactory, although it has been some time since this report was written. And there is already an agreement within the Committee, as well as an agreement with the Minister of Economy and with the Secretary of State, who is here, that one point will be devoted very soon at the Committee's meeting to a proper review of the situation in the field of regional policy and what is envisaged in the future. Here I would like to highlight two issues that have already been discussed. One is the issue of programs. The fact is, however we turn things around and that we are also justifiably critical and also within the Union we hear criticism that procedures are too bureaucratic, that there is a need to invest a lot of money in the preparation of programmes, in which sometimes there is no final result. But the system is like this, and without it, we can't do it. It must be acknowledged that we are generally late in Slovenia in the preparation of both regional programmes and individual specific programmes. And, of course, they use that as an excuse to express our dissatisfaction about how much money we receive. Even in this discussion now, at the offer of the Commission. We were with our colleague Peterlet at the beginning of March, we were with a delegation of Slovenian economists, and again, they served this to us. They say: Gentlemen, you have about 400 resources, 400 different programs on which you can run, and it is very much up to you, how many programs you have and how quality programs you have and will have so that you can get more resources. However, in cooperation with other Member States and also candidates, of course, alone and in cooperation. And the second question is the question of organisation. I don't mean to go into detail right now. We'll talk about it. It is true that they say that Commissioner for Regional Development Barnier said when he was here, and other senior officials in the official talks say that your thing is how you will organise yourself. However, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that it is also dependent on regional organisation or non-organisation or is therefore a major reason why programmes and other activities are not as effective as they could be. I don't think so. I know cases from practice. First of all, from my region, I could list a number of cases where it is difficult for two municipalities or two mayors - better said - to get together to prepare one programme for which they could run. And so in private interviews - and I have also experienced this at the last interview or visit to Brussels - the highest officials say that we are missing this organisation. Let's say, specifically, at the level of statistics or at level three -- so to speak, the landscapes. But I'm sure we'll talk about this in the near future. The second area is the area of economic relations with foreign countries, including foreign investments. We also have an agreement with the Ministry of the Economy and with the Secretary of State, who is here, that we will soon address this set and then also elaborate on where we are, what needs to be done, in order to be more effective, both within cooperation with the Union and, of course, with other countries. We see that the European Union is increasingly active in its trade and other activities more broadly, to say globally, in the world. We see that the Lama Trade Commissioner, in fact, travels directly around and helps to open new markets. I think we will have to be more involved in these processes. The third area is the area of restructuring. The agreement is that, as early as 10 April, at the meeting of the Economic Committee, we will address the issue of sectors or activities that are in particular difficulties, not to say in crisis, and government measures in this area - those that it accepts and those that it will accept, and this is an important part of the preparations for membership, so that we can work on this very competitive market. In doing so, I would like to briefly discuss another issue that has already been raised in the debate, which is the issue of public finances control. Now, whether someone likes it or not, but the fact is that the assessment, not our reports, is the Commission's assessment that the supervision administered by the Court of Auditors is, is said, this external control is relatively good. It is also a positive assessment of the new law on the Court of Auditors, although we have been leading the debates here on it, that a critical assessment of the so-called internal or preventive control has been given and that this monitoring needs to be strengthened. This is also being done, as well as the latest amendment to the Public Finance Act, in fact, ensuring that the situation in this area is improved and that, as far as I know, the activities in the ministries, especially in the Ministry of Finance, are actually taking place in this direction in order to make this control more effective. I mentioned a visit to the economic delegation, where we also worked with my colleague Peterlet in early March. At the same time, it was interesting that the European Union's senior officials, including the chief negotiator Lombarder, the Chief of Advisers of the Prodi Commission and others, unanimously gave a very high assessment of Slovenia in terms of its readiness and also explicitly said that Slovenia was the candidate, who also knows the processes and internal structure of the European Union's operation, and that, in fact, it is much easier to negotiate than with those who know less. I am not saying this in order to make this a reason for complacency, because there are also a number of critical comments that can fly both to the government and to Parliament, but to others, but let us at least be objective - why not recognise what they themselves say in the Union. Of course, there is a warning yesterday by the Minister for European Affairs that we are actually in this final phase and that there is still a lot of work ahead of us, both the government and this national assembly. At this point, I would focus mainly on the work of the National Assembly, because it seems to me that, above all, it is up to us at this stage, how we will conclude the negotiating process and, above all, how we will prepare for membership in the European Union. The fact is that we will have to work more rationally if we want to do all the extensive and difficult work properly in the work ahead. This is also related to the Rules of Procedure. I would like to recall how much time we spend in this Chamber sometimes for discussions that are useless, moving away from the topic on the agenda. And that's a lot of reserve, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, the prerequisite for us to work effectively is the timely preparation of legislative proposals and the quality preparation of legislative proposals that we deal with and adopt. I am also changing myself, expressed by my colleague Kacin - and I think that this must be said openly, although it is not popular, some of the media will be able to criticize or criticise - that for such extensive work that is already ahead of us and will be in the future before us, too little, Members and Members. The fact is that, in addition to legislative work, there will be more international cooperation and international obligations that will not be avoided in addition to addressing other thematic areas in the labour force, in the assembly. Let me say that the President of the European Parliament, when the President of our Parliament visited him and we also worked with his colleague Peterlet, announced that candidates who would successfully complete the negotiation process this year would probably be invited even before the accession treaty was ratified even more often to meetings in the European Parliament, to work bodies and probably to the plenary session as one process of preparing active work after we become full members. Another question seems important to me, which I would like to point out in the end. In addition to government activities, negotiating groups and parliaments, it is very important to involve the social partners more intensively in communication with the European institutions. Representatives of the social partners are included in the negotiating groups and in the working groups, but there will obviously be a need for more direct contact in the future. Recently, there have been representatives of the Economic and Social Council within the European Union, which in fact also represent some of the economic and social councils we have here. I would like to point out that one of the reasons for the very successful referendum when Austria joined the European Union, according to the statements of both the Austrians and the representatives of Brussels, was that the social partners, both employers and employers, the trade union and others, were actively involved in the negotiation process and the preparations for membership in the Union and, of course, this also had a positive impact on the formation of a public opinion, which would be very important for the outcome of the referendum itself. Let me finish with one more comment, but I don't think it's the most insignificant. It's a matter of running a mission in Brussels. I think it would not be good - and some well-intentioned warnings have been received during this visit also within the framework of the European Commission - that it would not be good if the long-term unoccupied seat of the Head of Mission of the European Union were precisely at a time when the work would be even more intensive than it has been before and as it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica has Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase my esteemed colleague, Ferri Horvath on two subjects. One is regional policy and the other is foreign investment. When a colleague of Feri Horvat commented on this additional decision of the working body, which is led by: "Check the effectiveness of the programme to promote foreign direct investment, and in addition to the anti-biocratic programme, take the last steps to increase foreign investment". This seems to me to be one such conclusion, which is very anemic. As a flossule, he repeats himself from session to session. Then I looked, and I'm actually interested in what these foreign investments are. Whether it is in the interest of the European Union to support foreign investment by the US, Japan, Switzerland, the Arab Emirates, or whether foreign investment by the countries of the European Union is meant. That's not clear, this conclusion. I think it's written very quickly. Then I went to see if it meant maybe this, as it says on page 98: "New laws have been adopted to harmonise legislation on foreign direct investment in the market, telecommunications and the media." If this is meant, then this is something other than the decision proposed here, or maybe 100, where it says: "There are still some restrictions on the free market of capital on short-term transactions, but there are no obstacles to foreign companies to acquire real estate. The liberalisation of capital flows has progressed within the framework of the government's business deadlines." Is my assessment correct that the European Union does not require anything with regard to foreign investments, as set out here in this additional decision, and that this decision has, in fact, come into these additional conclusions by mistake? That's my question. However, if it were written as it says here, I would add an amendment and say that we must also encourage Slovenian capital in the countries of the European Union. Let's write that down! We need this more than we do to encourage foreign capital to come to Slovenia. And this is where the government could help, so that Slovenian capital could occur in the countries of the European Union as well as in other countries. The second topic touched by counterpart Ferri Horvat is regional policy. As a representative of the parliamentary group, I have already somewhat disputed this decision, which reads as follows: To accelerate the preparation and adoption of regional development programmes and projects - we support, with both hands. Ensure regional organisation [[Law on Provinces and Other Area Laws]] - That's not true. The European Union does not say anything about the law on the provinces. And he doesn't require it from Slovenia. I even have a different opinion. I believe that the political energy that we will introduce into the law on the provinces, and the pre-accession is, of course, a change in the constitution, will spread us so much internally that we will not be able to make the first: that we will make quality regional development programmes. However, my colleague, Ferri Horvat, is right that mechanisms of cooperation between the congregation should be made possible. What your fellow environmentalists say - those who are here will be able to confirm it. These ISPA programs, projects, have been very interconnected in many Slovene municipalities. They've linked individual projects to an individual case. And that's good. And we have some very good cases. I can list them for you. In some cases, however, they do not cooperate well and may even remain unused or go where they work well. I think that these things need to be talked about in this way, and my colleague Fari Horvat, if I'm wrong, I'll take your explanation as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	Another replica. Mr. Peche.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Allow me very briefly, in the form of an explanation, a replica of Mr Yuri. First on that personal part of me, Saša Peca as a member of the National Assembly was not on any official journey abroad in the previous term or during this term of office. So much for these things. As far as the other Members are concerned within the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, it is right that sometimes it is going abroad, at least to bring to this own country the true image of the foreign and not the distorted image that can be seen most easily through the United List or government representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Replica, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Yes, I would only point out that Mr Pece spoke on behalf of the Group of Members, of course, when he looked down on those who were travelling. But I'm glad they're traveling, too, so we'll all be showing our pictures here in the National Assembly. It is therefore useful to travel around the world and Europe, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr. Ferry Horvat, you have a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Very short, more than an explanation of the question raised by Comrade Podobnik. First, in relation to foreign investments. The fact is that the data we have at our disposal are also foreign assessments, including within the European Union, that we are lagging behind in the field of foreign investment and that both of us need to: greater foreign investment in us and also greater investment in Slovenia abroad. However, I am not now going into detail because I said that this would be a special thematic discussion on the Committee on the Economy, the Ministry is preparing material for this debate, and we will be able to discuss it in more detail. Nor was it intended for these Committee decisions to be more elaborate here now, I don't know, a strategy, a policy and so on, because it was, after all, not the purpose of addressing this report, but to give some emphasis to segments of economic policy and development where the situation is not satisfactory. The same applies to the area of regional organisation. I would just say that, the fact is that we are one of few countries, if not the only - if we compare members of the European Union and also candidates - who do not have an intermediate level between municipalities and the state level. The more congregations we have, the smaller the congregations - this is in the nature of organizational theory and practice - the more integration is needed. That all integration will be interesting, that is an illusion, and that this is the only way to make things right. But of course we'll discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, do you have a replica? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	I'll be very brief. Comrade Ferri Horvat, I agree that the issue of foreign investment is an important issue, "lightmotive" at many meetings. However, my question is concrete: Is the European Commission's 2001 progress report written down what you just said - that there is not enough foreign investment in Slovenia? Which side does that say? Is that what it says or not? I'm sorry. I could have missed it. I could have missed it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, distinguished ministers and representatives of the government! Since I was first in line, I did not respond immediately to Mr Yuri's implementation. At the outset, I must say that I must reject his claim and his way of concluding that, in a sense, colleague Kelemin was critical to certain matters, that he had announced his potential Euroscepticism or Euroscepticism. So if you don't get better, the negotiating team or the ministry, from now on, we can also be Eurosceptics. This is completely inaccurate and tending. The fact is that in previous reports - perhaps I was not paying attention and this year - it is also explicitly stated that "the opposition plays its opposition role well". Surely this was primarily the case with our client. At the same time, we are the most pro-European party in all perceptions. This can also be done through independent public research and official agencies - say: Parties and the EU - and here I also have to reject your replica of Mr Visionak. It follows from this that your client is quite on the tail in the perception of people after public research and then how it works with regard to the attitude towards the European Union. The Euro-Atlantic coefficient is very clear. Your party's on the tail. And your client was either quite elegant or exploiting the fact in some way that the pro-European-oriented policy, that is, your president, had as a milestone. To a large extent, the party's core worked in a Eurosceptic way, even sometimes in dogmatic positions, and these are facts that come in some way to the public and that is also perceived by the Slovenian public. But I had to point this out, because I, as an opposition Member myself, am going to draw attention to some things. I may even repeat some of the old ones after Mr Kelemin, but I think they're important. Of course I wish myself and I am proud of this report as a citizen of Slovenia, as a Slovenian politician, that the report is positive. However, any criticism is by no means part of Euroscepticism within me. Absolutely not. However, I do not care, nor does our party, how, under what conditions, Slovenia will enter the European Union. Here, however, there are certain questions and some dilemmas, whether or not the negotiation strategy and tactics may have failed. Actually, remember, in the previous term, we changed the constitution because of some things, so to speak, real estate. At that time, it was assured that Denmark was the last and only exception. Now we see that the great Poland has fought a 12-year transition period, largely due to its historical experience, similar to that of Slovenian historical experience at the northern and western borders. As a position, I have to ask myself whether that information was really based on - whether there was a distortion of what movements occurred in the meantime. The other thing that raises us with certain questions is the European Union's financial offer. Indeed, such a good, negotiated and successful country, such as, for the European Union, a very insignificant agriculture, should be able to choose certain specific conditions in the field of agriculture. We have not come to this and I am afraid that we may even be treated a little less after accession. In this context, it is also necessary to ask and clarify some other unanswered questions or dilemmas that arise - why Minister Bavčar resigned. Is there also a certain fear in his resignation that some of the bad consequences of strategy and tactics in these negotiations will be revealed? I am not here to trouble Minister Potočnik, who was the leader of the negotiating group and conducted the negotiating platform. However, the question is whether the negotiating platform was quite good. Was she good? Was it such that it ensures the entry of Slovenia - which we now know will be in the package, that we will not achieve special status - to ensure the entry of Slovenia in some way up at some normal price? Or this price will be disproportionately high. I think that this question is worth asking, because entry into the European Union under good conditions could be an extraordinary satisfaction for the Minister and it is non-European, abnormal that a minister who is within his reach in some way, if his assurances are true, attainable to the entry into the European Union, would not take advantage of this politically and comprehensively, given his extraordinary political ambitions. Now let me also touch some of the things in the report. In fact, it is clearly written "Slovenia meets the political criteria". I agree that, given the accession position compared to other countries, we are also comparable and forward in this area. However, I am afraid, or I have to lay down some things so that the last report does not contain anything else. By the way, I don't know where to put it. [[...]] He listed colleague Kelemin only in the area of combating corruption. I must also place in the field of justice the fact that we have a Member for its implementation, for the substance, for which he has a mandate with election and which is essentially his primary responsibility, to fight corruption, or for transparency - for example, public finances and all of this - that he is therefore subject to judicial sanctions. The Presidents of the parliamentary commission of inquiry shall make use of all procedural laws in the field of the judiciary in their work. However, according to the Slovenian Constitution, I think that Article 130, and the Judicial Service Act, have full immunity for its trial, its opinion, cannot be prosecuted. The President of the Investigative Commission for Conscientious Work has been prosecuted. And this National Assembly to the President of the Commission of Inquiry on such an important matter, unprecedented, did not grant immunity, although it has two laws: by law on Members, if, in my opinion, the dictatorship were consistently implemented, and by law on judicial service or by Slovenian constitution. You're not going to see this anywhere in Europe. And in this case, the extraordinary update of the court that Commissioner Puksic was convicted the second time yesterday is unbelievable. Otherwise, they are casual in other areas, years and years to bring cases to court. It was Mr Puksic who was also investigating the case where there was a planned delay in court. He was convicted in an up-to-date manner, in my opinion, by violating the Slovenian Constitution. But I think it's an extraordinary timing. This judgment is intended to affect other investigative commissions - also colleague Kelemina is investigating corruption - and the investigative commission, where Friday, where the present journalist also fought corruption. And he's in charge of intimidating the members and presidents of the investigative commissions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Mr Jerovšek, let us try to limit ourselves to the report, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Well, I think it was necessary to say that in this area it is necessary to take a step forward. The procedure also includes a proposal to amend the Constitution so that it can be interpreted in a consistent pro-European manner, including by the Member's immunity, without any abuse of being a special matter. It is a matter of being able to fulfill our mission in general good. And in other areas, these shortcomings that still appear in Slovenia have already been mentioned. I firmly believe that this year we will be able to make a move in these areas, such as public administration reform and regional policy, because it is extremely stated that there has been no progress. The fact is that this is also due to a lack of political will. The area has been in an unaltered composition for almost the last 20 years, and these two areas have consciously pushed at the edge of the political space, of course with certain political tactics, but it is now in front of the wall, as the European Union reminds us of that. In fact, we, in the opposition, have contributed most to the fact that this report is so positive. For in recent years, we have drawn attention to those areas where, in our view and even in the view of the European Union, insufficient political will has been invested, and as a result, this report, which is generally positive, I also consider it to be an extraordinary recognition of the work of the opposition party, such as our Social Democratic Party in this State Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	Mr. Kelemina, are you replicating or what? [[...]] Who? Please, I missed you then. Okay, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry to be a little late to comment on the replica, but I simply had something else in mind, and I didn't listen to Mr Yuri consistently enough, who wanted my discussion that I had heard before, somehow to be added to my findings or my knowledge - my debate as such. I would just like to point out once again that I did not want to discredit the European Commission or the European Union as such in any way, because at the outset I said that I was talking about the report prepared by the European Commission, and in this case, we are talking in particular about what we must do at home ourselves, so that we can address certain shortcomings so that we can approach all these criteria in order to be equally, fairly integrated into the EU. That's what I meant. And by making a little critical about certain things, I didn't mean that we wouldn't join the European Community, no. This is, for the first time, our party's policy, our party's general policy, and I think that interest, which will show, if necessary, the referendum of the Slovenian people. And here I do not think that, because of this transition to the European Community, we will change people, but we will change if we need political negotiators and those who actually have to take care of those who are in power today, so that the policy and direction adopted by our country's national assembly, our people, will be realized in a just and equitable manner. That's all this is about -- well, replacing negotiators, not people. As for what Mr Jerovšek was talking about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	Sorry, that's not a replica anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	Yeah, I'm replicating him, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	No, no, no. Him?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Yeah, I'm replicating him to complement what he said. I would like to stress that the purpose, the warning on his part, is nothing more than that, because it says here that Slovenia meets all the political criteria and that we are ensuring democracy and the rule of law in this country. What happened with Mr Puksic is unacceptable and should not happen in any legal country. That's what I'm trying to warn you. And this matter, if we do not solve it - and note this in order that we, these mistakes, these shortcomings that we have in our legislation, or in our mental element, or in our misinterpreted right of a Member to detect corruption in this country, in order to address these irregularities in accordance with our Constitution and our legislation. That's what this is all about and nothing else. So it wouldn't be misunderstood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you. Replica has Mr. Ferry Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I am obliged to give an answer to the direct question raised by my respected colleague Janez Sponik, who asked me where the report says about foreign investments: Chapter Meeting the Copenhagen criteria - this is Chapter 2.3. On page 35 in the second paragraph, I quote: "The flow of foreign direct investment was also modest in 2000 and did not exceed the level of 1999. Expressed as a percentage of gross domestic product, foreign direct investment contributed only marginally to investments in 2000 and did not exceed 1% of gross domestic product in 2000." And then, in the final full assessment in Chapter 2.4, on page 36 - just one sentence to read. "The authorities should now continue the implementation of the projected structural reforms and the privatisation of several important sectors, such as banking and insurance. This would help attract more foreign investors and provide a better macroeconomic basis for the medium-term performance of the economy." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Allow me, don't mind me if I don't allow any more questions in the debate, where does it say and then the answer to where it says it. This isn't gonna be a part of the plenary. Mr. Sok has the floor. Replica, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I agree with you that there is no question where something is written, a question for communication between fellow Members of Parliament. I thank my colleague Fari Horvath for his answer. But my question was the result of my opinion that the expression of foreign direct investment in the additional decision is not clear, because it is a matter of direct foreign investment: Japan, the United States and so on. I have asked this question and thank you, colleague Horvath, for your answer and I accept it. But it's true that you forgot one sentence in your quote. "But in the first seven months of 2001, the influx of NTI - foreign direct investment - increased significantly through purchases in telecommunications and banking, but from a very low source." And this sentence was not quoted by my colleague Ferri Horvat, who is the key from my point of view. So, my question remains: Is the term "check the effectiveness of the programme to promote foreign direct investment" meant for foreign direct investment from European Union countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Now he has the word, Mr. Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the rest of the government! Dear fellow Members and Members! I will touch only one part of this report, on page 51, this is the area of agriculture. We are talking a lot about agriculture, and at this time we are talking about that this is going to be the hardest chapter in the process of bringing the European Union closer. I will not discuss the report as such, just progress in the area of approximation in the legislative field, but some of the highlights of this substantive record, which actually summarizes our current statistical situation in Slovenia. The report is brief, but eloquent enough, and I could say that before entry into the European Union, at least for me, it is a bit worrying. If you look at this data, you can see that the gross added value in agriculture is declining. From 3.6 per cent in 1999 to 3.2 per cent in 2000. It means almost half a percent. Employment is also declining. From 10.2 percent in 1999 to 9.9% in 2000. This means that trends in agricultural policy are downwards. Other data also show that the number of non-processing areas has increased. It is said that Slovenia is growing. However, it is stated here that the quantity of crops planted with cereals has increased but is not indicated for what reason. So I'll try to explain myself and tell you what's missing in this report. Why am I exposing this? Because such negative developments will make it difficult for our negotiating group in Brussels to negotiate for higher quotas. It's a simple fact that's written here. And I don't know what our negotiators will be going through, but in the European Union, we need higher production quotas in agriculture. Before we started the session here today, our Parliament visited the Danish food minister, who said quite clearly and loudly that the conclusions from Berlin, as regards direct payments, were almost final. So that's her point of view. And since Denmark will lead in the next 6 months, from June to the end of the year, in these pre-accession negotiations, I believe this will be the case. She simply said, don't expect any significant changes in this area, because what we have offered is essentially our final offer. So the one where we expect a little bit more is the amount of quotas. For us, two quotas are certainly essential. This is the quota for sugar and the quota for milk. Of course, the others are important, but these two, I think, are the most important in these negotiations. And I don't know what arguments we're going to make before the European Union to increase these quotas for us, but if, at the same time, agricultural production in Slovenia decreases by all proportions, both by gross added value and by the number of employees, as well as by the number of hectares of the farmland. And I fear that Minister Booth's predictions, when he recently declared that we would reach higher quotas than what was offered, are, in fact, unrealistic. What's this all about? For the sugar sector, which is an extremely important agricultural for the northeastern part of Slovenia, sugar beet is called a European Union proposal of 53,000 tonnes. The expectations of the Ormož Sugar Factory, which will also receive this quota, are much higher, 75,000 tonnes. So it's a 40% difference. If our negotiators do not reach this negotiating quota, then they are in the factory - and we are even more confident - that the sugar factory will be sentenced in the long term to slow stagnation or the final stage to collapse. The second area is, of course, the area of milk production. Slovenia is 75%, I would say, agricultural in more difficult production conditions and on such difficult production conditions is one of the most promising industries that can operate under such conditions, cattle. Our expected quota was 600,000 tonnes. The European Union's offer is 30% lower, which means that we already have to reduce milk production by so much and so much as a percentage on this segment, except that any development component is incorporated into this quota. When we spoke broadly on the Committee on Agriculture about these problems, our representatives comforted us by telling us in Europe that we are a "golden boy" and so on. The Common European Agricultural Market aims to make Slovenia a consumer of agricultural products produced in excess by Europe. Europe is producing, I think at this point over 2 million tonnes of market surplus sugar and they must be placed somewhere. We import 700 million mark agricultural products annually to Slovenia. We practically export nothing to the European Union except a little meat and, as it says here, meat waste. I don't know if that means slaughterhouse waste what meat waste really is. In short, this is all that today and what today Slovenia is doing to the European Union's common market. For this reason, it is poorly written to the Slovenian countryside, because without agriculture without further developmental incentives in the area of agriculture, the countryside is also doomed to slow stagnation or deterioration and nothing will help us without knowing how good, regional development programmes, because if young people leave rural areas, then no one will have to implement these programmes and there will be no need to implement them because there will be no people, because the age and demographic structure are rapidly deteriorating in the countryside. At the same time, I would like to say that this criticism actually flies to the government as a whole. Thus, the government as a whole - it is not just a matter of the Ministry of Agriculture - the government as a whole has failed to manage such agricultural policies during this period, which would actually turn these trends upwards so as to be able to say before the European Union, see, the gross social product in agriculture is rising, the number of employees in agriculture is rising, it is said, thus also justifying the need for higher quotas. This is a criticism of the whole government, and perhaps even the vague and not entirely logical introduction of direct payments in 1997, because this money could have a significant impact on structural policy in our country and our agriculture could otherwise adapt to the European Union. The fact is that we have done nothing in this area and that today we have farms that are inadequately small and cannot compete in any way at the time of the entry into the European Union of farms into the EU; on average, they are up to four times smaller on the surface of the agricultural land than farms in the European Union. Let me get this straight. I would like to end by asking representatives of the government, or I don't know who will answer this question, what does it mean to be listed on page 56 in order to amend the Law on the Land and Forests Fund in the field of economy. I would like to remind you that we have discussed this law here recently, and we have not changed anything in the field of this law. When I read this, I conclude that we have probably promised in Brussels before the European Union that we will change this law, and I think that the promise has gone in this direction, that we will reduce the 20-year concession ratio for our Slovenian state forests and that these forests will start as complementary activities to manage our farmers or that the forests will be offered to manage on public call. We did not do so, but the Minister or Fund of Agricultural Land signed the concession contract with all Slovenian forestry economies before the end of the year, leaving the lease until 2013, as provided for by the law, which we have obviously promised to change. I would really like someone from the government to answer this dilemma and answer this question and tell me how you will, however, justify to the European Union what is written in this report and what obviously we have not done in Slovenia. Just for closure. As far as democratic deficit and rational work are concerned in this Parliament - this was the case - I would like to say that I do not understand democratic deficits through quantity, but mainly through the quality of work. In this House we are actually witnessing the greatest time spent arguing with each other about what would be better and what would be done anyway. We could have followed such a debate yesterday when we spoke or had the election of one of the Constitutional Judges on the agenda. Thus, it is not the opposition that is to blame and why it is necessary to amend the rules of procedure, as stated in this report, but first in the coalition you will have to clarify what you really want to simplify your opinions and views and then work in this House will be significantly easier and easier than it is now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick has the floor. Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary and escort. To the extent that one can follow what is happening to the negotiations and so on, I would like to congratulate you on the success achieved so far. As such, the negotiating group has done a very good job, in a difficult situation and in a situation that requires a lot of knowledge, skills and, above all, psychic and physical power. I hope you keep it to the end. This report is actually a mirror of our work, government and parliament. I'm not going to talk about the successes that have been recorded, which we can look forward to. But it would be wise to talk a little bit about what we have not done and why not. For example, what I miss in this report is that there is almost no word on the development programmes put by the government in two budgets, this year and the next, some items are absolutely not part of the concept of development programmes. I think the European Union, if it's really looking at what's going on here, can pay attention to that. I can't find any reference to civil organisations in the report. It seems to me that the European Union and the Minister have spoken more about this matter than ever before, that civil society should have a much greater role than it does. Some organisations, such as the Chamber of Commerce, are listed as civil society, but in my opinion this does not fall within this category. When a person reads this report, he wonders where it was written. Somehow I get the feeling that he was part of this writing at home. Look, when we read in the Rules of Procedure - as my colleague Sok has already mentioned - he says, "when the Rules of Procedure are adopted, it will speed up the legislative process as it limits the time for discussion and increases the role of parliamentary committees". But it doesn't say whose grade it is, it doesn't say whether it's good or bad, it's true, it kind of looks like it's a very good thing. However, ladies and gentlemen, who are sitting here today and perhaps bored or whatever, you are tired of this debate, enjoy it, because it is probably the last before the amendment of the Rules of Procedure, because if the voting machine in this Parliament or the National Assembly is overtaken by the current Rules of Procedure, then you will no longer have this fine opportunity. Well, Mr Kacin, colleague Kacin mentioned that there are some options or that he suggested some options to increase the efficiency of the National Assembly. I don't think we have to go that far yet, because we have some much more possible arrangements or, I would say, less radical changes to speed up the legislative process. Look, there is one possibility that we would simply burden Members by giving them different advisers and so on. If we look at, say, Slovakia, there is only one working committee for each Member - I have six at the moment. How can all of this be followed? Then, second aid to the Members. We have a structure that stems from previous times. For example, the secretariat for legislation - their client is a state assembly in its entirety, we Members, in fact, have nothing to do with this unless they warn us if any matter is inconsistent with the Constitution. So this is one option, and maybe if someone here is assessing how the work of the National Assembly will improve by changing the rules of procedure, maybe they could go back and say that and compare it with another country. The report also speaks of a code of conduct for public servants, which was adopted in January 2001. The Code contains provisions on political neutrality and conflicts of interest. One wonders whether this code also applies to a government that appoints its officials, appoints ambassadors and so on. As I have observed so far, this code does not apply to government as such. This also mentions the 1998 Constitutional Court decision concerning Kopra. This is not yet resolved today and it is not indicated whether it will be saved or not, whether it will be resolved, whether it is good or not. Then there is one drinking sentence regarding the judiciary, on page 19: "The judiciary still has a high degree of independence in Slovenia". Now, how do you understand that? Whether it was the European Union or whoever wrote it said that the judiciary would lose that independence or something. I don't think she has enough. How does such a report have to be written in this way? Then there's talk of corruption. The problems of corruption in Slovenia are still relatively small and I do not know on what basis this conclusion is made, because those who look at public life know that it is different. In addition, paradoxically and in fact, it is right to say that the Office of the Prime Minister has set up an anti-corruption office. Listen up! I'd like to see a country with the same arrangements. So I won't be too long, I'm going to comment on this. Small and medium-sized enterprises are becoming increasingly important to the economy. However, it is said here that because of the unfavourable structure, this sector is not moving forward. I think it'd be good to tell you why not. High interest rates, high taxes and insufficient development programmes for small businesses. As we know, there are small companies around the world that drive the economy, but we don't have them. I think the government is doing a lot too little about a small economy and we should really think about how to do this. The overall assessment is that Slovenia is a functioning market economy. That sounds very nice. When people go to see what they say about banks, we haven't privatized banks, insurance companies or anything like that. Therefore, it would be very useful to think about what the report will be next time they can report that our privatisation programme did not go through, giving a so-called egg on your face because we promised it. And there's another thing. They may wonder where someone is running the Slovenian economy. Whether it is the government, whether it is the office of the President of the country where the things are purely diversified, and I hope that this status, which we now have or in the public international opinion that we are not credible, can be rectified. I don't know what the response of the Slovenian government is - and this is what you teach me - to a report like this. But the government answers that? Is it because of us, that's what the public says? Does he agree or disagree? What happened at that time? I think something similar should be part of this process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded written and unrestricted discussions. I limit the debates of other Members, as usual, to 5 minutes. Mrs. Possonchev, did you have a replica? Oral debate. Thank you. This is said to be limited to 5 minutes for all further debates. First of all, it's Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll try to be brief. I would like to give just a few of the indications or points in this report that have specifically stabbed me. Whether it is because they somehow do not reflect the actual situation or what is particularly burdensome and it would be worth imagining, however, to change until the entry into the European Union. It's probably in our own interest, our own lives, that we create one that's good for the citizens. I'm not going to define how it is. It is clear, however, that this report, like my colleague Dr Bernik, notes that, of course, the European institutions are preparing a report and cannot be directly involved in our reality, so that they can really figure out what it is like. It is therefore important what civil servants or other institutions offer to these European rapporteurs. Look, for example, the reform of public administration has progressed. The number of employees has increased. I don't think the reform of public administration has made any progress. The number of employees employed to increase this does not say anything about the effectiveness of public administration. Anarchy remains. Then, not to repeat, the judiciary, which still has a high degree of independence. So we don't know which way he's going. The increased violence of the Slovenian police. I don't know what the data is. However, it is evident that the number of prisoners has increased by about 70 percent over the last two years. We can say that violence has increased in Slovenia. That's for sure. Second, of course, how successful we are in persecuting violence. That's not what the report says. It would be much better to look at the problem of the victims. Here we have a problem in Slovenia. What do we do in dealing with the consequences? In recent times, denationalisation has also progressed somewhat. I hope that we will not read in 2100 that denationalisation has progressed somewhat, such as my descendants. The Office of the Ombudsman continues to function well. The unions are still active. Terminology is a little problematic. I am interested in assessing how autonomous trade unions are and how much we have allowed them to be placed in this process of acceptance in the context of social dialogue. Victims of war violence, that we have very well arranged. That bit me a little bit. Yeah, for some, yes, but for some, it's nothing. We didn't even give them the death certificate. We know where we are about the graves. Let's be decent. Let us be dignified, not serving European people with some false information. Let's give a fact, and what we're going to do, seriously, on behalf of the civilisations. The latest report has made progress with regard to rural development. No, only the instruments of intervention on rural areas, agriculture or perhaps regional policy, we have introduced something small in the image of the European Union. But with regard to rural development, if I go from Great Lashes to Kolpa, I see only one setback, even where Minister Booth lives. It's getting more and more congestive. The number of farms is decreasing. The number of livestock heads is decreasing. It's all down. Productivity of individual farmers as well. I don't know, maybe it's somewhere else in Slovenia, but I didn't notice that. There is still something to be said about corruption, but my colleagues have already mentioned it. Just because we have a government office for corruption doesn't mean anything. When I went to look at the analysis of where the most corruption is, first of all in those countries where they have a corruption office. Serious countries that are persecuting corruption have been strengthened within the criminal police framework. I have already proposed that this office and all three of its officials dealing with the definition of corruption should be employed within the Ministry or the Police Office. These are the negative things because I did not specifically highlight the positive ones, as the report says. Steps have been taken. If they said it wasn't, they'd be lying. And I mentioned the one where we can be credible, where we can go on more questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupanova.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! Dear government officials! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me first express my support and thanks for your efforts in the negotiations. I am aware that your work is highly professional and requires great patience, and I hope that it will continue so. However, I would point out two things that have already been mentioned, but I think they are extremely important, to which we are also referred. It's a public administration reform. I am referring to a package of five laws, namely the Law on Public Servants, the Law on Public Administration, the Law on Public Agencies, the Law on Inspection Services and the Law on the System of Public Sector Wages. Before that time, the government had been working extremely hard to reform the public administration, as it had proposed some of these laws in its drive by means of a rapid procedure. When they came to the knowledge in the government coalition that matter is extremely difficult and that all laws must be dealt with in accordance with and harmonised, we moved on to a regular procedure. Now all five laws are in phase one. However, I fear that there will be major problems, particularly with regard to the law on the wage system in the public sector, and I fear that there will be major delays. I ask you how this will affect the negotiations themselves and what the government will do about it. The second question also concerns the finding in the report that the Constitutional Court had already decided in 1998 that the Municipality of Koper should be divided. As it may be heard, however, the Government proposes to repeal the provisions on the possible division of the congregation of Koper. I would like to know why and whether this will not also reduce the possibility of implementing a Constitutional Court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Moge has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	President, thank you so much for your word. Tempus fugit, so I'll be brief. First of all, Mr. Secretary, I would like to express my personal thanks to you and your team for what you've done. In my opinion, you've been successful so far. Mr. Peterle! I've read in very detail the text that came from your commission and basically satisfied me, but because of the lack of this indicated in this material, I would ask both of you for further information. This is the last negotiation, for an area that is very important, it is an area of agricultural regionalisation of financing, and all these areas are largely dependent on statistics if we are to demonstrate whether we need any assistance or not. We citizens have been informed many times about these things, either that they went to the second part of the division of statistics to NGC 2, the first state remains to have Ljubljana and the environment and the rest of Slovenia, or the east, and the west of Slovenia, and one central region. Of course, these negotiations, how Slovenia will be divided at the second level of statistical data capture, are largely dependent on aid. I think with the knowledge you have so far, if Slovenia is divided into the first and second levels into the same area, you will know this in the negotiations where to take advantage. I want to know how far this thing is now or where Slovenia's positions are now when it enters Europe. Thank you very much for your answer in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	Thank you very much. We have debaters now, in order: Mr Barovic, Mrs Possonec, Mr Rokavec, Mr Podobnik and Mr Peterle. So, first of all, Mr. Barovich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	To this day, I was convinced that a consensus of seven parties, not eight, was reached in this national assembly to become a member of the European Union. From the part of the debate that I have listened to, all I can find is that within this consensus and a unified opinion, there is once again an opposition and a position, which, of course, I am very surprised. I myself am a representative of the Slovenian national party, the only one who has not signed or who has not agreed to this consensus, and, on the other hand, I am the Vice-President of the European Affairs Commission, so sometimes I am in a very bad position. As a representative of the Slovenian national party, I have every right to doubt Slovenia's entry into the European Union, of course with the aim of proving it. On the other hand, I am aware, and I also expect colleagues, as well as within the National Assembly, that, in contact with foreign statesmen, in contact with foreign delegations under the role of Vice-President of the European Affairs Commission, I have to represent the views of the State, Republic of Slovenia, and not from the point of view of the Slovenian national party, which, of course, I hold, although I always say that I am the representative of that party that did not reach the consensus - this is about that part of the debate that we heard a little earlier. And as such, I will now make clear clearly and loudly what my assessments are, and prove my skepticism or Euroscepticism. The first question is whether Slovenia will be a member of the European Union or not. I assess that Slovenia and the State of the Republic of Slovenia should decide on this. What are the facts? This is decided by others; this is decided by 15 Member States of the European Union. These decisions are also highly uneven. I know this from practice and from meetings with foreign delegations. What is the goal? Slovenia's entry into the European Union is all good for Slovenia. Adoption of legislation that will adapt to the countries of the European Union and which will at the same time improve the situation in the country of the Republic of Slovenia. What's the actual situation? It is only the area of agriculture, which is a lot of talk and which we have also discussed today with the Danish delegation, which will preside over the European Union in the second half of the year, that shows that the goal is just the opposite, that Slovenia is not well written. I myself estimate that Slovenia is a farmer on the chessboard managed by others. Whether there is another way out for Slovenia, we are asked or asked. I didn't think so, actually, for the sake of well-being. But when I met with the Norwegian ambassador, I saw that this was the goal. Norway is not a member of the European Union but is an equal and equal member of the internal market, the European Union's economic market. That's right. Why? Because she has taken care of herself because she has created such a good economy that the European Union is talking to her as an equal member. Why doesn't our Slovenia create such a starting point? Then we could have a much more equal conversation. However, if we are pursuing the objectives of the Laekan Declaration, I am the first to sign Slovenia's accession to the European Union. That in 2010 unemployment in the European Union will be null and void in order to reduce social disparities. When we say this to a Slovenian man, we are, of course, very surprised by the information we heard yesterday that the confidence of Slovenians, as well as of other candidates, is declining. Of course, it falls if, on the one hand, we speak, the goal is zero unemployment or the reduction of social disparities, and on the other hand, the people of these Member States see that this is the opposite, or at least that unemployment is stagnating, as well as social disparities, which naturally increase from day to day in Slovenia. And that's it. While I am pleased that there has been a lot of talk lately about the role of language in the European Parliament, the role of the Slovenian language that we can, I hope, if we are members of the European Union, talk about. No one can tell us what the role of the national Parliament will be. I am sure that this role should be very strong - I will finish immediately, Mr President - but the views on the role of national parliaments are very different. And another question, which is very, very open. What will our relationship be to neighbouring countries that will not be members of the European Union if Slovenia becomes one? On this and on the way to the European Parliament, I have not yet heard any facts, and no discussions, and believe that they are very important. Thank you, and I'm sorry I overstepped for a few seconds.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. It's a nice greeting from me, too. When I read this report, what I can't help but point out once again the situation in Pomura. If this seems to anyone liquid and boring, I have to tell you that 21 percent of unemployment is a big enough cause and an alarm to have to talk about it. It would be necessary to fight for a few jobs, and we have lost hundreds in recent months. Over a thousand jobs we lost in a border town, border work in Prekmurje. Therefore, Mr Minister, I personally remind you, with your name and surname, that for entering Europe, the European Union, the country must not forget the most endangered article. The power of all is only as strong as its worst article. And this worst article is very, very vulnerable. The country must find a way to prevent job losses in the border areas of Pomurje, to find a way to provide better infrastructure for economic and human potentials to border areas and thus economic development in those areas; to take advantage of agriculture in Prekmurje, for the benefit of farmers and for the benefit of itself; to find a way to allow young people to stay in border areas, because these places are becoming empty, it is no longer fun, but literally hunters are buying at a very low price of native land and the hunting ground will be there and the bushes will grow there. Even Prekmurci or Pomurci must be provided with a life worth living. If you can't find a solution for Pomurje, you haven't done anything for nationality, because nationality is even more threatened. In these places it is very threatened because if it has to leave the national mixed area, it also loses its identity and its nationality. 21% of unemployment compared to 7% - let's think about it. It is high time that those responsible finally began to respond to the accumulated problems of Pomurje more responsibly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister and representatives of the Government! In short, I would focus only on the chapter of agriculture, which has already been discussed in some of the discussions today. The agricultural chapter is assessed very positively. We know that in the time that Slovenia's legislation has been adapted and the negotiations themselves have mainly been negotiated with regard to the implementation of legislation and regulations. We are now moving to that crucial part of the negotiations, how this, one very difficult area, will be regulated and concluded in the final phase. I believe that this area is as sensitive for our country as it is likely to be for Poland, because Slovenia has such a different, specific way of creating and structurally organising agriculture compared to other candidate countries, which are also waiting for entry into the European Union. We have small farms, other candidates have large farms. If we get a small quota, then for our small agricultural establishments, that means we deny them the possibility of reaching a solid level where we can survive with other measures, regional policies and so on. But if we don't get a large enough quota, we're actually rejecting this option. This is actually diametrically opposite to other candidates for membership in the European Union, where their production is declining and they will simply come to these 90%, which have also been exposed in the working version of the baselines for negotiations in the final agricultural work. I therefore believe that it would be absolutely necessary for our country to require a differentiated approach and to deal with negotiations and to enforce our specificity in this area. Otherwise, I think the consequences for our agriculture compared to other candidates will be significantly more difficult. It is true that it is only 4% of our population, if we look only from the point of view of the population, but if we are aware of the importance of agriculture, it is significantly broader, the importance of the environment, the importance of tourism, the economy involved in this area, but it is more widespread, it covers between 20% and 30%. That should probably be the case. I estimate that so far there has been a significant underdevelopment in the structural transformation of the processing industry. Just waiting in this area for "Day D" and waiting for shock. We also found that neighbouring Austria experienced the greatest shock on this segment because it was not properly organised to connect and compete with the open market that took place on "Day D" All these arguments once again convince me that it is still important that a differentiated way of negotiating be put in place and that a specificity that is crucial to our country and, above all, that agriculture will remain. Otherwise, I am convinced that agriculture in most parts of the country will be doomed to failure, not just agriculture, and that this will be condemned to cultivation and to an uninhabited landscape probably most of our country's territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would add two more to the questions I raised earlier on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Given what it says on page 31 about the external debt that went through over 5, 6 billion at the time, we are now much later and this number has already risen. I want to know what is a projection of the debt that is not yet assessed as disturbing, but is classified as a middle-aged country. They also note that in the medium term this trend of development can be a cause for concern. So it's a question of how, or how exponential, this curve will be in the coming years. I'd like to ask for a projection here. The same is true of the inflation that she says here will be persistent. We have also heard here the explanations of the Prime Minister, who, when talking about inflation, has usually abstained from rising oil prices. Oil was also an irritation for others, and yet they have low inflation, and we have long too high and do not show much success in this regard. Secondly, as a Member, I am going to have a little fun with the political part of the report, which contains quite a few cute flowers. On page 17, you're a writer, I'm not gonna locate him, but I think he's only from the local province, dealing with qualifications, political, LDS and SLS. Both of these parties are on the right hand side of the central side. For other parties, however, it does not feel the need to determine which line they belong to. He uses an interesting word, however, that the LDS has a total of 34%, this punishment, and such a strong punishment is not to say an SMS, which is the first time in Parliament, but has reached as many as four Members or New Slovenia, which has reached as many as eight Members. In these accelerant words, I would advise a little more balanced attention. Then on page 19 we read that the government law has simplified procedures and that appropriate amendments to the Constitution should be adopted. An uneducated reader would understand that Brussels is ordering us to change the constitution in the field of government. I don't think so. Comments have already been made on the judiciary. Then there's another beautiful one about the Ombudsman. It surprises me that the eyes of the mind have escaped this. It says that the new Ombudsman was appointed instead of the previous one who resigned last year so that he could run for state elections. This one seems a little flowery to me, 'cause as far as I know, the guardian ran out of office and pulled him a little. I don't know who can afford that. I'm sure Brussels won't. I don't think that's how they go in detail. Now a quick comment on the issue of financial control mentioned by Mr Horvat and Mr Podobnik. I would like to point out that, with praise in the external part of the surveillance, the report says that internal control over public finances needs to be strengthened. Next comment to Mr Podobnik on the possible amendment of Article 87 of the Constitution. The Convention will undoubtedly hold a strong debate on the enhanced role of Parliament. Here I see a very broad consensus on this and, of course, it will also depend on us how we want to put Parliament into the future. What will be the point of informing the European Union's troops, what consultation, what mandatory opinion, what communitarian solutions, and what certification after they have been adopted. As he said, I think already, Mr Kacin, we are avoiding among the candidate countries regarding the role of Parliament in the negotiating venues themselves. Speaking of Mr Kacin, I must say that I do not agree with his proposal to increase the national assembly. I'd rather see smaller working bodies and their bigger role. I think it is his committee that I am also participating in that is a small parliament with 25 people. I mean, we don't need big bodies anyway, considering the proportional representation of all parties. There is also the question of NATO, which has been mentioned by some of the fellow Members of Parliament. I see the problem that this anti-NATO campaign, which is still going on in Slovenia, is trying to make a difference between NATO and the European Union in the essential area. In doing so, it is out of sight - just two more sentences, Mr Vice-President - that these two organisations are in a range of identical values and principles or complementary values and principles. In fact, those who speak strongly against Nate today are also speaking against the European Union in the eyes of people. The people of these two objectives, which we have taken together, are very closely linked and do not see the contradiction that some people today are introducing into public debate. That is why I think that part of this debate also harms our will to join the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. Another replica, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you. Just for a little while. Peterle read the report in great detail and was the first to note this error, on page 17, where it is recorded that the LDS is a right - centred party. I went to look at the original text and there was a mistake in translation. That's what I'd like to point out. As for the definition on the left, on the right. This is clearly an important definition for the European Union and for the functioning of the European Parliament. And apparently that's why she's so persistent on all the reports. There is always a customer definition, left or right. It is true, however, that some definitions, especially political, very, very superficial, are very superficial and most likely to have received superficial information from Slovenian representatives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you. This concludes the morning part of the meeting. We continue at 2.30 p.m. with this point. The Minister's answer will be first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members! Dear guests! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 14th session of 27.3.2002 mag. Janez Kramberger for the start of the afternoon session and Danica Simšič, also for the start of the afternoon session. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence in the hall, I'd like to ask your attention. We're picking up the presence! There are 47 Members and Members present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In the morning work, we are still in the stage of discussion on item 2 of the agenda. Mr. Minister, Dr. Janez Potočnik, also spoke. Here you go. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	It's a little harder after lunch, but we'll try. I'm going to try to be two at the same time, which is a little contradictory, short and at the same time answer the many questions you've actually asked. Firstly, thank you for all the comments and in some way positive energy and time devoted to the debate on the European Union. I would like to say first of all how the report is actually produced. The report is a document of the European Union. It is true that we have prepared a very important input on our side, but, of course, it is extremely important that such input is not only prepared by us, but also prepared by the Commission's representative here in Ljubljana. It is prepared by their experts in Brussels. This is their vision of what is happening in Slovenia. Do you have an answer to that, or not? We are always commenting on this in some way, but, of course, we commented on this in the first days when the report actually came, which was then, I think, November of last year, even in the middle of November. First of all, what I think is very important, because this way we can quickly limit ourselves to it. There have been quite a lot of discussions going in this direction, which have in some way been controversial with something that we can't really add or subtract. Secondly, how the negotiations are proceeding, as some of the comments went in this direction. As you know, negotiations are under way on the existing acquis of the European Union. The current legal order of the European Union covers some 80,000 pages. We've been through this, and this is the only subject we're talking about. The whole problem is that this part of the conversation has a little unfortunate title, these are negotiations. It is true, and I have said repeatedly that, of course, this part of the negotiations that have been negotiated so far has been more or less an adjustment to the existing acquis of the European Union. That this is something completely normal is also clear to me. Why? Because we have decided, at least with decisions taken by the government and subsequently confirmed or supplemented by Parliament, that we are going in this direction. The European Union has legislation as we do. Have you ever wondered if the law you have adopted in this room will come true? I don't think so. The European acquis is legislation adopted in the European Union. There are no questions as to whether or not we will realize it. That's something we take as a fact. But as we enter, of course, we are in a position to be able to talk equally about the emerging changes in European Union legislation on the emerging things that are the subject of our common life. Of course, the situation is different up to here. At this last stage of the negotiations it will be slightly different, because it is still a little more flexibility than it has been so far, but in any case what I have just said needs to be taken into account. To weigh in general that we have given in the past a little too much is, of course, legitimate. It's something completely legitimate for me, it can weigh anyone in this way. But I would just like to point out how such documents are actually accepted. Such documents shall be adopted first through working groups, larger negotiating groups, governments, the Committee on International Relations in Parliament. Everything that has been adopted has also been dealt with in Parliament. While this is a unique situation, I think it is very beneficial that you know much more than your colleagues from other candidate countries know, but the fact is that everything has been agreed, at least as far as I know, because I have been at all these presentations or changes to the negotiating venues, has been adopted so far. Of course, we have entered into negotiations by taking into account what has already been adopted in the Association Agreement. These were the terms of reference which differed slightly between the candidates. As far as the negotiations are concerned right now. At the moment, negotiations for the last three areas on these financial matters have not actually begun. So far, we have only received the horizontal position of the European Commission, as the next steps in concluding the negotiations are pictured. The fact is that this horizontal position as a principle of how negotiations will take place is extremely important and that there will not be much deviation from it. However, this is not some negotiating basis which, for the first time, would refer to an individual candidate and which, secondly, would be the final position, or the Commission or the Member States of the European Union. In the coming days, we expect individual negotiating points of the Commission for individual countries. Then the debate will begin in the European Union between the members and only towards the end of the Spanish Presidency, if all goes well, we will have a common negotiating basis for individual candidates on these last three issues. From here on out, actually, the hat is just about to begin to unfold. To this end, however, the discussion will be complicated in some way, because you need to understand that on the other hand there are also fifteen Member States entering, which, of course, have different views than the candidates we are entering the European Union. However, I am sure that there will also be answers to the end that will be more favourable than the proposals currently in existence in this so-called horizontal paper. Therefore, the judgements on how well we have negotiated in the area of agriculture, regional policy and budget, save - you can have them, but they are premature at this point. We haven't actually started negotiating on these parts, at least on this financial work. Given that the key arrangements will only be reached in the final phase of the negotiations, I ask you to be patient in your views, because this is the moment at which we can actually explain our problems more or less to the members, we are clear, we are lobbying if you want, but we will not receive promises from anyone, not from the Commission, nor from the Member States at this time. These will be things that are, of course, recorded in some way and where you are more or less convincing, but solutions will be sought more at the end of the negotiations. This is very important because otherwise we will overheat the situation from here to the end of the year, when we expect the negotiations to be concluded. At this point, no one can offer you a solution or guarantee anything. But we can promise you that we will work 100% in accordance with the interests that we have heard many times today on your part very clearly articulated. As regards pre-accession assistance from the European Union, I would say only so much that according to the data we have for 1997, 1998, 1999 Slovenia reaches exactly such percentages in the financial memorandums: in 1997 86%, 1998 92%, 1999 95%. We are among the candidates who make the most of the resources of the countries or means of pre-accession assistance, which is a good sign. We have problems in institutional building and we are trying to solve them with the good will of all those involved in this system, but in structural and cohesion policy, the problem is that this is inter-sectoral coordination already in advance and that is why this problem is difficult. It is also difficult, not only in government, but also difficult at regional level, where projects need to be conceived, built, presented. Surely, therefore, this is one of the more difficult and challenging tasks ahead of us. As far as the 2000 and 2001 financial memorandums are concerned, we are not far from drawing, but they will only expire in December 2002 and for 2001 only in September 2003. We have every opportunity to achieve exactly the same shares as I mentioned earlier. Otherwise, if we were to calculate the additional funds that we will receive through financial assistance foreseen for 2002, the funds of Ispa and Sapard will total at present EUR 331 million, or if I translate them into our tolars, for 66 billion dollars of total aid from 1992 to 2002. Of course, that's not a small number anymore. And that's something we try, if possible, to exploit and use. As far as the question is concerned, I'm coming to the separate room right now, because I'm going to be very brief. Translation is a problem, you're right, and we're trying to accelerate it as far as we can. The legal regulation, which was the biggest problem, was greatly accelerated this year. And that's where things move on. We will also translate primary legislation by summer. That's basically how things turn out for the better. But we cannot change the fact that we are small and that we have a problem here, because of course there are just as many tasks ahead of us as there are before, say, larger candidates. As far as public support is concerned, I agree, and I am also concerned about public opinion and public support. I think that we all need to communicate clearly what is going on and what is going on in joining the European Union. I also agree that the key to the implementation of the legislation is the one that awaits us. Absolutely, there's no discussion here at all. I agree with Mr Sponik that only speed is not a key criterion, far from that, quite the opposite. As I have told you many times, Slovenia has never actually been a country that would have tried very fast. However, I think it is very important that we have reached 26 chapters as the first country. Because in this way we have made it clear that on our side there is a great will, willingness and determination to carry out our tasks. And that we are that country that is cooperative and that if at the last stage anything gets complicated with any member, it will not be because of us, because we have come to this stage ready. After all, it is also very important that we have a certain time left so that what we are talking about today can also be explained very clearly to the members. As for the involvement of the legislative body of Parliament in relation to the adoption of positions, I think we have an extremely good starting point. Our country has a better starting point than any other candidate. I think that, of course, there will be a great deal to be done to ensure that the matter is made effective. This means that the discussions here will also have to be carried out quickly and in the context of the adoption of the common positions to be presented in Brussels. So the point of regulation and functioning of our country in the context of Brussels will be one of the key things of the success and effectiveness of our country. This is something that you and we will commit to, in my opinion, especially immediately or already commit ourselves to, and we will focus even more on once the negotiations are concluded. I agree with Mr Pecett - and this is what I have stressed from the outset in all my performances and lectures: the European Union is not an end in itself. The goal is, of course, to achieve more for us and greater prosperity. And that is, even when we wrote the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, which is old - say - now 7, 8 years, perhaps even more, it was clearly written. The European Union is formerly a tool for achieving what is our own objective. However, if we go to look at the tasks we have set ourselves then, the tasks are largely in line with what we are doing today, by entering the European Union. We can agree on that, we can't, but these documents exist. I'm willing to share them with you whenever you want. Of course, the words that enable us to walk the world and destroy these people are hard words. I hope they're well thought out, because if they're not, they don't help anyone, but at least to those on whose behalf they've been spoken. I would be happy to invite anyone to any meeting or trip we have to see roughly how these conversations seem, how intense, and how much pressure we are facing in these conversations. And if you're not really open and you're not convincing, in this case it's hard to make any movement. Because the fact is that the European Union, in the talks we have, is trying to avoid differentiation in some way, even though it is strongly supported in its views. In fact, any differentiation also means a problem of differences for them, and the problem of differences is, of course, a problem. As for the issues related to foreign direct investment, I will only say one sentence. I would like to appeal that you do not go to assume that these are foreign direct investments which are only related to the European Union. I think it is right to leave it open, because, if I remember, in the documents presented by the profession a few years ago, one of the key objectives was to maximise the dispersion of foreign direct investment. In short, this way you avoid any potential dependence, so I think the distribution of foreign direct investment is one of the key factors. However, the Secretary of State, Mrs Vitezova, will explain more about this later. As regards Mr Jerovsk's comment on the fact that Denmark is the last and only exception. Denmark is the last and only exception because it is an exception, while Poland is a transitional period of twelve years. Whether Poland will be in a better situation after 12 years than Slovenia is today in the context of the members of the European Union, but the second question is - I think not. The key question we need to ask ourselves is: what is the problem that the candidate has? Poland is huge, borders on a country that is several times more developed, and the pressure on a possible sale of land is obviously significantly greater there than the pressure in other candidates, including Slovenia. These are, of course, relevant discussions. I think that - and you were there as a debater who was very understanding - we have also discussed these problems on the Committee on International Relations. As far as agriculture is concerned. That gross added value in agriculture is, of course, something that is relatively normal, and I think it's also right, as it sounds harsh. However, if you look at production in essence, say, just milk or just both of the cases you mentioned, milk and sugar, it is growing significantly after years, especially in recent years. Such gross added value falls simply because people work more and better; not so many farmers fall, but mainly this. This is a trend that is not Slovenia, it is a trend that is general, and in general the trend in the world is that - let's say - production activities in some way reduce their share, while those activities that are in some way upgrades -what we usually said is that it does not produce value - but it increases because it simply technology for all: for farmers, for workers, allows entrepreneurs to achieve more with the same size. As far as higher quotas are concerned. Quotas for sugar and milk - we fully agree that they are too low, and we are also trying to develop or move in this direction. But our problem is just the opposite of what you mentioned. The problem is, we're growing this thing, we're not going to-- if we were falling or stable, it wouldn't be a problem. However, because they are taking some reference period 1995-2000, the problem is that we are growing. And if we were to take the last year, of course their offer would be completely different than it was. Here I have all the data for years, for each of these, but it actually grows for both milk and sugar. And that is exactly what we want to convince them that we cannot and must not go under the existing production that we now have. And here, of course, we use your arguments exactly and try to explain them around. Otherwise, as regards the global offer for agriculture, as you know, direct payments for candidates were not foreseen in Berlin. They were not foreseen for a very simple reason because it was considered that countries have so much lower prices that when they enter the European Union they will not face price pressures, but our country is in a very specific situation and we are aware of that. We are aware of this and that is why Slovenia has been simulating the common agricultural policy for the last three, four years also through the budget, our own budget, and we are looking for solutions here that would give farmers essentially what we all expect together. As far as reform of public administration is concerned, I cannot help but agree more with what you have said. I hope this thing speeds up as fast as possible. I said in the introduction yesterday that it would be very important to get this thing under the roof somewhere in May. It seems important to me - not only because of the European Union, but also because of what is happening at home. Mr Moge: issue concerning the division of Slovenia. The fact is, there's a serious problem here. However, the fact is that, in the case of regionalisation, it in some way is conditional, indeed, the means, but if we decide to agree to one region, I guarantee you that we are looking with the other eye precisely at the sum of the money, if not, at least as it would have been if this regionalisation had occurred. There's more than one solution. Here, of course, the story is longer, and if you want, I'm ready to explain it later, but we have exactly what you've pointed out, we have in mind, and we're careful that something like this doesn't happen. However, it is not linked to the number of regions, it is only indirectly linked. But it's not the only thing that depends on it. Mr. Barovich! I think that Slovenia will, of course, be more true, that 15 of us have decided to become members of the European Union, and that in Slovenia there is still a final decision to be taken at the referendum, while all the conclusions on the European Union's side are such that the process is irreversible or irreversible. So I don't think it's a question for a 15-year-old to move things back, because it's really a historical process that everyone is aware of together. The comparison of Slovenia and Norway is nice. However, if we asked a little deeper, we would find it true that they are part of the internal market or that they function as an internal market. However, the problem is that they must accept everything the European Union has agreed on and accepted and operates exactly in accordance with the rules of the internal market. However, they do not have the minimum possibility to influence how the internal market will be created. In fact, they are only completely passive in this context. And it is, of course, something we can accept. I think we would be in a very similar situation if we decided not to go to the European Union because we live in this room. If you look from a distant map of Europe, Slovenia is very much in the heart of Europe, we simply belong there, we are trading this work. Two-thirds of our trade is here and we want it or we don't want it, we're going to have to, if we're going to trade it, adapt it, but the way this market works and the arrangements that apply there. Or we can co-create and influence this, but it depends, of course, on whether we are in a position to become a member. One thing, I think, is - and this often occurs in discussions - although I have not observed it today - Slovenia has been doing analyses in the economic field, I guarantee you that they exist and I can give them whether for Slovenia the path to the European Union is right, whether there are alternatives such as EFTA, CEFTA, EEA [[This is the European Economic Area.]] Or stay out, better. We had a project group where virtually all the professions of Slovenia were united. It was the economic strategy of Slovenia, I think it was about five years ago, where the special booklet is devoted to the very question, which of the alternatives we are currently discussing is the best. Murje is of course a serious problem and I agree with Mrs Pozsončeva that special attention should be paid to him. Allow me to conclude only with words because I know that I have been longer than some would like, but I have tried to answer really in the midst of what was the subject of this morning's discussion. In this last part of this year, because of what is the subject of the negotiations, there will often be a shift in optics in relation to the European Union, only issues that will be linked to financial integration and the consequences in the European Union, both in the agricultural field and in the regional area and in the end, of course, particularly in the financial area, in the budget. However, whenever we discuss this, I think it is essential that we do not lose sight of why we are actually entering the European Union. In my opinion, these are three essential advantages that we must not lose sight of. On the one hand, it is about blowing everything up together and opening up Slovenia, both our opinions and our actions from the outside and from the inside, on the other hand, the adoption of a stable legal order that will allow our investors and foreign investors to make a relatively clear decision on investment opportunities and opportunities. Ideas will be given more opportunity than other conditions, such as financing, lobbying, and so on. In short, the situation is becoming significantly more predictable for all entrepreneurs, so they are essentially supported by integration into the European Union. And it's time we believed them. Thirdly, I think it is important to remember and ask why the European Union was created and where it came from. In the 1950s, the European Union was created primarily as an answer and a need for stability, order, peace in Europe. And that's what she's been keeping up for 50 years. But these are basic things, values are those that count and which actually make the whole process a front. And when we talk about financial consequences, of course, they are important and, of course, far from being negligible. However, the process and what we are actually talking about is so great that I believe that all these arguments need to be carefully considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Mr. Minister, thank you very much for your answers. Do you want to provide answers, too? [[...]] Thank you very much. That's why we're going to the debate, Mr. Peterle, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	See, Madam President, I propose that you give the floor to Mr State Secretary Strmšnik, who has applied, probably wants to answer some questions that have been quite a bit about his field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Stormfly, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Dear Members. A few words have been said in the area of regional policy, which require an answer. Especially those observations that have alerted us to the fact that regional policy is also of internal importance and internal political implications. There have been a number of emotional debates, in fact, which have pointed out that things are happening in the eastern part of the country, which are also the subject of negotiations. That the celebration that is taking place in Slovenia is also the subject of negotiations on this segment. And it is probably right to answer at this point or at least try to shed light on the problems that arise in connection with the negotiations. First of all, the lead in regional policy negotiations is the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, which is the strategy for the regional development of Slovenia. So, we were always led by domestic arguments in the negotiations. And we have negotiated all the solutions to the law on promoting coherent regional development. That seems important to me. Including the 12 statistical regions with which the European Union agrees, although they do not meet the quantitative criteria, the number of the population, as provided for by the regulation which is currently in the process of adoption in the European Union. So the solutions we have set out in the law on promoting coherent regional development are also acceptable for this European cycle. Now a key guide and a communication in the negotiations is the need to provide an area that is lagging behind in development, especially in the south-eastern part of Slovenia, aid comparable to that received by regions in Member States at a similar level of development. That is what Slovenia does not give up in negotiations. It shall not derogate from providing assistance to those areas that are lagging behind in a reasonable period of time. And that led to everything. Finally, the fact that progress in the negotiations is not that the report says that there has been no progress here is, in my personal opinion, a reflection of the fact that Slovenia insists on its national interests. And I think that Mr Peca can be very proud of me, in fact, that there has been no progress here. In the negotiations - Mr Minister has stressed that we are looking for a solution that is acceptable to both sides and which would mean the realization of this common interest. Not only in dividing the country into statistical regions, two or three, but there are other possible solutions. That is why we are working hard in the negotiations. The next message of the report is that the state has not yet submitted a national development programme, it is said, those development priorities for which money is actually expected to flow. We did it. So this report is a little out of date. Here Slovenia has taken a key step forward, reached an internal development consensus, linked the budget and the state development programme, actually implemented the long-term concept in public finances, adopted a two-year budget and thus took the step that is still obvious as problematic in the report. Next, the question of institutions. These are also mentioned in the report as a problem. The institutions envisaged, both in the negotiations for the European Union and under the law on promoting coherent regional development, are in place. We have these institutions today. And we have them, not in this way – I think that Mr Barovic was or Mr Peca to hire new state officials, but we have managed to establish these institutions with eight new people. Eight is the price of institutions in the area of regional development. The price until entry is likely to be 4, 5, 6 extra. Everything else has been done through transfers within the state administration, through rationalisations, in particular through rationalisations within the Ministry of Economy itself. With the merger of the Ministry of Economy, we have managed to cover such matters to a large extent. Nor is it true that there would be red tape in regional development agencies. The regional development agencies do not have government officials, but they are mostly private institutions funded by the programme. The country will implement certain programmes through them and will also pay for this if programmes are implemented through these regional development institutions. The problem is that, of course, there are not enough programmes to be implemented. There are too few development programmes to be implemented through regional development institutions. And this is where we need to make progress. Now, of course, we are already at Mr Kelemini's or the question of the lost euro. I am competent to say that during my term of office, which is almost a good year and a half, was lost - the report here very precisely exists - 220,000 euros have been lost. This is three times less than we lost in the implementation of the Savlja Regional Development Programme last year. This represents 1.8% of all available European funds, and this is the loss we are talking about. Otherwise, the losses in the domestic budget in the implementation of development programmes are higher, not excessively high, than 5% - Savje even slightly more, almost 15%. It's a condition. Now, for example, let me go. A specific case where the loss of funds occurred. Not to determine responsibility, but to say what kind of problems there are actually problems in these matters. There was a cleaning plant called Schempeter - Swirl. A new congregation was established. There has been a division of congregations. The new municipality, which was established, was no longer interested in this cleaning plant. We've been able to detect this in time. We've re-channelled resources from the cleaning plant on the import road to this cleaning plant. The imported road was never completed or there was a problem because the owners of the land through which the import road was intended to go triggered an administrative dispute and prevented the project from being completed. So it's a partnership. Without partnership, our absorption capacity will be poor. However, partnership means not only partnership with the social partners, where I personally assess that we have already done a lot in Slovenia, for social partnership, although of course not enough, I agree. This is primarily about these territorial partnerships. Let us not forget that if the municipality were, I would say, space managers and territorial consensus are the basis for the implementation of European projects. It is therefore so important to adopt and implement regional development programmes. For regional development programmes offer coordinated projects: in the area of coordinated projects and territorially coordinated projects between the country and between the region, between municipalities united within a region. The problem we have in implementing regional development programmes is their funding. However, this problem must not in any way raise questions about the very existence of these programmes and the importance of these programmes. With these programs, we have managed to reach larger projects. We managed to connect municipalities in a wider environment and animate them, to wake up internal development initiatives in local communities. And that's a big one. In Slovenian conditions, this is very large. Of these regional development programmes, we look forward to the projects that we will be able to offer in 2004, 2005 and 2006 to co-finance the European Union. It is true, however, that the budgetary debate here was 'a scruples' that what we need has not been achieved and that more efforts must now be made to invest in other sources. Believe me, there are other sources, not just budget resources. Other public finance, banking resources, private sector resources that can be linked in regional development programmes and brought this to the fore. So it's not true that everything has to be on the shoulders of the state budget. I'm done. I would just like to say that the Ministry of the Economy is active, it is very active in this area: it is in the media, it is in Parliament, it is at the centre of attention and it is professional. We have developed all the institutions envisaged by the law on promoting coherent regional development, we have introduced all the instruments envisaged by the law, with the exception of tax incentives, which would be against the adoption of the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia. It's not true that nothing's happening. It happens at light speed, at least that's how we feel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you. Since you answered Mr Pecchett, I don't think you've explained anything to him because he wants to ask an additional question. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	My additional question or replica to Mr Strmšnik. True, we agree in one part, otherwise in a very small part, and this is just the part where you talk about light speed. I think it's your ministry at light speed that is pushing this country into the abyss from which we will no longer come. That's all we agree on. Otherwise, if I have so far believed that your social policy is foreign to you, I know it today. You know, let me say before, 156,500 people are employed in state institutions, which means that they are paid from the state budget, that this represents 22% of the employees in the Republic of Slovenia and that this represents once again a higher number than the unemployed in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Mr. Pece, I'm sorry, Mr. Strumšnik replied to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	If you think this is right, if you can be proud of this thing, we cannot agree on such a thing in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Mr. Pache, if you'll excuse me. I'm warning you, Mr. Pache. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	The Slovenian national party has always sought to raise employment in our country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Mr. Peche!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	And I'm sorry that you say different things as a representative of the Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	I would like to remind you that you do not replicate Mr Strmšnik, but that you provide information that he did not speak of at all; he talked about the number of employees in the Ministry of Economy, which has increased to eight to implement this legislation. I'm sorry, but please be specific and clear in the replicas. You want a replica? Here you go, Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. But I will grant your wishes, and I will thank Mr Strumšnik very much, because he has spoken for a very long time, and if he has spoken to everyone, he has largely convinced the convinced. However, since we are only four of the Slovenian National Party against the planned operation "Western Europe or the European Union", I am even more grateful to him that he has spent so much of his precious time convincing us of the four of us - but he has not convinced us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mrs. Knight, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I will really try to be as brief as possible, but since the Minister has announced me, I still think I owe a brief comment on the topic of foreign investment. In particular, let me say that I am very pleased that these investments, which are not many places in the report, are quite a bit - in today's debate, in my place this can only please me and I think this is an excellent introduction to the debate on investments, including foreign investments, which we will have in Parliament below. Of course, things have been going on since this report was written to date. Perhaps you would mention just two key facts that might shed light on this disagreement in the discussion. In 2001, that unfortunate percentage of the gross social product that held us, as far as foreign direct investment in Slovenia, increased to 2.3%. With this, of course, we are getting very close to those, so to speak, "normal percentages" as other countries know - Europe calls them in transition. That's about 3 percent. So here, of course, this reminder we received in the report is no longer withstanding. On the other hand, for us in terms of policy-making, this was also a warning and I would like to say that we are actually taking this into account, it is that we are looking at investments, foreign direct investment, both those coming to us, as well as those being invested abroad by Slovenian companies. Well, let me tell you, the dynamics here are even more interesting than the tides. The outflows reached 0.6 percent of gross social product last year, which is certainly becoming interesting. And both of them together prove that, in fact - I'm going to say, a little populism - we are really developing into a real dynamic economy that is looking at investments from both sides. I am very pleased with this balance, not only in terms of some of the attractions of foreign investment to us, but also, of course, our investments abroad. Let me say that I agree with all the clues that have been discussed. This means that we will continue to discuss the structure of foreign investment in us and under both criteria, both by country and by sector. Let me say one more piece of information in support of what the minister said. We certainly support diversification, dispersion, as much as possible a "portfolio" of foreign investment in our country, because this is not the case today. 45% of all foreign direct investment in Slovenia represents Austrian investment, and we cannot be satisfied and we are not. Of course, we can talk further, but what can we do? I hope we agree that here the ranges and policy options are limited because they are primarily of interest; because, clearly, on the other hand, we are also not satisfied with the 'portfolio'. Our companies investing abroad - 65 per cent of all these funds go to the countries of the former Yugoslav Republic. Here too, as Mr Podobnik said, we would like our companies to invest more vigorously in Western Europe. But it's only as a basis for discussion below. As far as politics is concerned, let me say that in terms of proactive industrial policy, the Ministry of Economy does not separate domestic and foreign people. I'm talking about investments in Slovenia. We're talking about investments. You know that everything we provide is equal to the treatment of domestic and foreign investors, so we don't separate here. And I don't think it's meant to be, at least we haven't talked about this right now, but we can, in the National Assembly below, or we intend to do something special for foreign investors. For the time being, we do not see any reason for this in terms of proactive industrial policy. And as I said before, we do not separate investment from foreign direct investment - but here I am talking about the policy of economic relations with foreign countries: for us, the inflows to us are as important as the outflows. In both cases, we are talking about strategic investments, about strategic investors, and in all cases we are talking about investments that are in line with increased competitiveness and exports, and this will also be a framework for discussion that we will probably have in April - I hope - in Parliament. However, let me say that Slovenia was able to defend its investment policy in the OECD in December 20th, and that Slovenia was adopted or acceded to the investment declaration and multinational companies, which means that for some investors this fact - for potential investors - is even more important than bilateral investment agreements, because this ensures, of course, that approach to the declaration ensures the same treatment of all investors in Slovenia. We, together with the OECD Secretariat of this Council, have also prepared one, I think, a very good report on investment policy in Slovenia, which has received a truly favourable reflection everywhere, to prepare a seminar in Ljubljana on this subject, and I invite everyone who is particularly interested, perhaps as a preparation for the discussion to look at this report and be a good basis for our debate on investments, particularly foreign investments this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you. I think that we can now go to the debate on the conclusions drawn up by the parent working body, 11 of which are recorded in the two labour body reports, namely the European Commission's regular report on Slovenia's progress towards integration into the European Union for 2001 with date 7.2.2002 and the additional report with date 14.2.2002. I'm opening a debate on both of them. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. Madam President! I suggest that you also allow Secretary of State Simoncic to answer the questions raised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	Mr Simončič nodded earlier that he would not, because apparently the minister answered the questions. Good. In discussing the conclusions on the additional report, I give the floor to Mr Simoncic to answer Mr Sok's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to provide short information on the issue of forestry legislation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted to Parliament a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Forestry Act in August 2000. So it is already in Parliament and it is also a European harmonisation. In the parliamentary procedure, however, the 1996 law proposed by Mr Jelinčič is already a matter of procedure for the national assembly as to how it will define the dynamics in the adoption of legislation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. We are discussing the report and the additional report in the debate on the conclusions. [[...]] The conclusions are 11. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Before going to this debate on the conclusions, Mr Strumšnik would ask what these regionalisation officials are doing, given that the purpose of regionalisation is to establish regions. What regions do they manage in Slovenia? How Slovenia is seen as regional, given that this is not clear to parliamentarians and that practically there is a problem in all legislation because there are no regions. How? What regions represent Europeans and what grounds do they have for this in Slovenian legislation?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Sculpture. I think that in the first part you missed the answer given by the Minister, Mr Potočnik, who also answered these questions. I apologize, we are in the debate on the reports of the 11th Decisions proposed by the European Affairs Commission for the adoption of the National Assembly. Please be careful and work in accordance with the rules of procedure before us and the answer to the question of how to deal with the regions has been raised by the Minister in the work where the time has been, Mr Školč. A debate is open on the proposals for conclusions in the additional report and on the report with the dates I mentioned earlier. Would anyone like to discuss the proposals for conclusions? Kerne, I conclude the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the eleven decisions drawn up by the mother's working body and recorded in two documents, dated 7 February and 14 February. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. It's 57 votes against 2. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decisions are adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister, representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation and full explanations. We're moving on to 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CONTRIBUTIVELY PROPOSED BY THE OFFICER OF THE COURT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, The draft Rules of Procedure were tabled by Members Anton Anderlič, Miran Potrč and Ivan Kebrič. Does the representative of the motioners wish to take the floor? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	I am fortunate that this time I do not need to give a broader introductory explanation, because I am convinced that everyone in the National Assembly is, at least, a Member, as well as the professional services and the public, that the National Assembly needs a new Rules of Procedure, that it needs a new Rules of Procedure in order to organise its work in a way that will allow for faster and more efficient treatment of agendas, substantive problems which must certainly find a place of in-depth discussion in the National Assembly, but in some organised way. The way in which they can come to terms with all different views does not mean that this does not mean that this will not mean a long-term legislative procedure in laws, as we now have virtually the only one in countries that are either preparing or are already members of the European Union. And since the legislative process is the basic matter that the National Assembly has as its task, it must organise it in a way that will indeed be able to prepare things thoroughly. Given that last week we adopted a decision on the rapid procedure and that we want to adopt the rules of procedure after an extensive discussion, which was held in previous years and after a broad discussion, which was both in the Rules of Procedure Commission and in the National Assembly at the time of three readings in previous months, I would just like to say that the Rules of Procedure have been drawn up in such a way as to take into account what was adopted in the second reading of the transitional procedure, plus the amendments adopted in the third reading and have been defined, so we have identified ourselves to some of the key issues that might have been at the time separating those which we were advocating the Rules of Procedure and those which, of course, opposed it. These are, in particular, the three issues that we were trying to resolve at the time in the extended procedure with the harmonisation amendments. This is a matter of setting time for debate between Members and Members of the Group on individual agenda items in the National Assembly. We have taken into account all that would be optimal, so that, in the manner envisaged, the College can adopt a timetable to adopt a plan for the meeting of the National Assembly a month ahead, by day, by points and of course, to allow the Members and Members to present their positions within this framework and, depending on the specific requirements of the individual groups, it is possible to devote more time to certain points and thus to the sending groups and Members for more time. So given the number of Members, after five minutes, times as much as this calculation, of course, comes out. The limit is at the end at 90 minutes, at the bottom of the point is 25, but I think that there is an amendment in the 20 minute version, and that the whole matter should not last more than one day than the deadline. Of course, the timetable is that key issue and it is what is very important for the work of the National Assembly. The second issue is the order of order, the order of treatment of the laws which have been tabled in the procedure by the authorised applicants. The proposal, which is a compromise, is a compromise solution, is that in any case, the first law to be introduced in the order of the first, the one to be put in by a Member, the government, as the first. In the event that the first one is sent and is, for example, number five, the government is only number six, it would be the government's turn as the others. We have also foreseen a solution to the need, of course due to the emergency needs of the State, for the Government to come forward with a proposal on an urgent procedure, in order to simultaneously address this law, which has come through an urgent procedure, and the one which was first in line, and thus to try to cover the content that was envisaged, for example, by Members, to be regulated in some law. In addition, I will not say concessions, but an additional solution to the process of making amendments to the supplementary budget is also an built-in solution to allow Member groups to invest at this stage of the adoption of the state budget. There are also some other things in the Commission's proposal, in particular those that are the product of compromises, to seek solutions that would satisfy the widest possible circle of Members and Members. Of course, there are also editorial and other solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Just for a moment, a procedural proposal. I propose that this point be stopped, so that the treatment is discontinued. Why-Cause: This morning we received a proposal on what we will deal with today and the rules of procedure are in order at tomorrow's meeting, tomorrow's follow-up. That was reported this morning. Nothing was explained why this is being placed today. We haven't even tabled the amendments yet because of this prediction. In addition, I now see if the work will take place under the new rules of procedure in this way, then we will not get anything new. If you think of it as a government coalition that way. Something gets said in the morning, and it doesn't go on what it's supposed to be. This is unbelievable and we are protesting and suggesting that we stick to what has been said this morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I'll put your procedural proposal to the vote. Sure, just for an explanation. The College of the President of the National Assembly has taken an indisputable decision to begin the consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure at 10 a.m. this morning. The Rules of Procedure Commission worked yesterday until 11 a.m. and the professional services had some difficulties in preparing the report and reviewing the amendments - and the notification given was that: Due to this consideration of this point, as has been announced, we will not be done today. And I suggest that the assembly deal with it tomorrow at 10 a.m. In the meantime, it was found that the material services were fully prepared by 2 p.m. today. This was a proposal and certainly cannot be more binding than an agreement with the President of the National Assembly and no reply was given. However, your procedural proposal may, if, of course, you insist, put to the vote; to end this item on the agenda. We need to make an early vote. Voting! I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal, Mr Drobnič, that we break this point and proceed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Mr Drobnic's procedural proposal. We're voting. There are amendments on the table. 66 Members and Members are present. 21 votes to 43. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the procedural proposal has not been adopted. During the general debate, the amendments will be reproduced. But yesterday, on the board, you announced that they had already been filed. Mr. Petan, if you please, a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. So, you can tell me that I will use procedurally, but this is the only way I can get to the floor in this House. You're the one who just said that I announced yesterday that they were being invested. I did not say that they were invested - that we would invest them because we could not prepare them because we only have the professional services that Parliament has approved for us. And our professional services are also working on other projects. And our amendments are still missing. I'm sorry, I don't mean to be rude, but you've failed Parliament before. I'm so sorry. We can find out what I said on the Rules of Procedure committee yesterday. Of course I was tired, but I know what I was saying. I'm well aware. And good. I'll just be there. Our amendments are still missing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr Petan, in second reading, if your amendments are not available, of course we will break the point. Because you have announced them, but we are still in the stage of a general debate, which may also take so long that the multiple amendments come to the assembly of Members and Members. We have done so many times in quick procedures but have done so. I'll stop before second reading if your amendments aren't on the bench because the amendments are decided in second reading. The draft Rules of Procedure were treated by the Rules of Procedure Commission as a working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Commission on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure - President, Mr Bojan Kontic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. In view of the rapid procedure and the forecast that this point will be held at the meeting of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure Commission, as mentioned earlier today, will meet in the evenings of the 7th Regular Meeting and will consider the Rules of Procedure proposed by Mr Anton Anderlič and forwarded to him on 12.3.2002, and then Mr Miran Potrč and Mr Ivan Kebric joined him. Members of the Commission had previously received a letter from the Commission on Mandate and Immunity, and we also received amendments from the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia and the amendments by the MP, Mr Tonet Anderlic, for whom the proposal was made for the Commission to win them as its amendments. We have also received a written additional opinion from the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. The report also contains a summary of their opinion, or you have all received an opinion. We have considered all the amendments proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia and have also stopped in any article addressed to the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. The Commission supported the amendment and supported the amendment of Article 49 of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. However, the Commission did not vote in favour of all the other amendments. The Rules of Procedure Commission has also drafted amendments to Article 24 at its meeting, and at the end of the second reading has also adopted a decision to propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider and adopt the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly following a rapid procedure proposed by Members: Mr Anton Anderlič, Mr Miran Potrč and Ivan Kebrič, together with amendments to the Rules of Procedure Commission and, of course, amendments supported by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] We don't have a government representative. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Rudolf Petan will speak on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Here you go. Then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! I just didn't know if I should make an announcement and say anything, or leave it all together and leave the hall, because what's going on in this national council goes beyond everything - I'll say the limits of good taste, nothing else. I will not say at all whether the Rules of Procedure are in breach or not, whether a given word or what we have agreed is valid or whether what has been said at the beginning of the sitting is valid or not, because it is, in any event, a complete mess. Much has been said about the rules of procedure. The debate on the previous one has barely ended, and now, due to some strong momentum of change, from night meetings, where it is also necessary to work at night, despite the fact that parliamentary groups have not yet had time to table amendments, and of course because of what is also happening today, which is why, of course, I am also strongly protesting on behalf of the Socialist Party Group. It seems that we have still remained some kind of mental regulatory society, because we naively believe that by amending the legislation we will do everything that this change means everything and that things will in themselves be prepared, because we will have a new act in the new legislation, a new regulation. Clearly, we are confident that our actions and actions can become the same. The important thing is that we have a new act, and then everything will be well fixed. And if something's wrong, we'll accept a change of law and things will go their way and everything will be fine in India Koromandia. But I think the problem is the other way around. The situation can only change our changed behavior, not some dead letter on paper. And that, indeed, this Rules of Procedure already prove, and also today's conduct here in Parliament. What is written in the Rules of Procedure is a dead letter on paper, and the thing goes its own way, and the caravan goes on. On this side, we can warn that the law is being broken - this means nothing; that the rules of procedure are being broken - this means nothing, it is important that someone who has a majority, which is legitimate, needs to be recognised, works in his own way, acts in his own way, and does nothing. So in the beginning, I also said that I thought hard about whether I should say anything at all. I probably won't even tell you what I was going to say. I would only remind you that I have prepared a review of the developments since the December forward meeting, December, January, February and today, and that I can also conclude that we have been transferring from 126 agenda items to other meetings from 126. I think that means that 42% of all points were transferred to the next sessions. Of course, it's no wonder, because we couldn't have representatives of the government or the candidates here, because probably the government or the government won't be on duty in the next room, and they're just waiting for us to change the agenda and put the 30th point in point three and vice versa. It is true that there are some news in this Rules of Procedure that are probably good, but after all it is not so much in the same letters, but in our conduct as I said at the outset. It is necessary to know that this rule of procedure, not quite so, but the purpose of the rules of procedure that we are now adopting, was to silence the opposition in the middle of the previous term, and this is now significantly different. Today, however, the ruling majority are two - thirds quieting others who are thinking differently. Perhaps now would be the current expression of impatience. And that's impatience if you want. It is true, however, that the situation has changed significantly, and this two - thirds majority has sometimes made elegant work impossible. As well as these 53 points out of 126, which we have moved to the next meeting, the result is that this two-thirds majority is not united and that there are many conflicts between themselves, or that there are individual parties among themselves, from different lobbies. I wouldn't mention the law on payment traffic and things like that, where we had congestion, interruptions and the like. Besides, I don't know if it makes any sense to remind you of that, but the fact is. In the Social Democratic Party we are confident that this rule of procedure will not solve this situation, we will have to do more. Nocturnal sessions will not be a solution for better work, nor will such a skipping of the agenda, nor will it help if the new rules of procedure say otherwise. After all, today we have simply no explanation - only after the subsequent intervention did we find out why the agenda has been changed, and we will probably have to do something else. We will probably also have to think a little about better organisation in the National Assembly, whether in the factory or in the industry it is called technological preparation of work or, ultimately, operational preparation. That means the paths are clear. We don't have a clear path. If someone thinks of something in his head, then, with his belly, put it through, if not otherwise, and if necessary, he does not take into account the votes and comments of the secretariat for legislation. We still have it, and it's built into our organization as it is and it's good to respect it. I would also like to point out that one of the forms of functioning of our National Assembly is also a solution in the new Rules of Procedure, where it is envisaged to be, after all, a very small comment may be made, for which a minor matter is possible, but it is quite typical of our Parliament. Finally, the President of the National Assembly will gather the panellists for the debate. Well, it doesn't matter whether it's a cabinet or anything, but somewhere else they have special services to do this, and the President has to collect applications to the debate all tells us how our Parliament is organised and this phenomenon today probably just complements that. It is a fact that it is necessary to say that, even in our Rules of Procedure, the present and the Constitution also state that the President of the National Assembly is a Parliament, a legislative authority. The Constitution sets out 15 points for the National Assembly, what the National Assembly represents. This is said to have an important function by the President of the National Assembly, regardless of who the name represents this function is, and in this Rules of Procedure, it is intended to collect applications for discussion and similar matters. As I said, this may be of little importance to many, but it says much about such an organisation where the first man of this institution must also deal with such administrative matters. I think, of course, the whole cabinet. There's probably even more important stuff here. I guess I'll cut it a little short. If we do not change anything about our conduct, our effectiveness, which is so much to talk about with the proponents of this Rules of Procedure, if we do not change it, will be difficult. I think it would still be good to try to change the rules of procedure of our conduct and the rules of procedure here in the National Assembly. We are also convinced in the Social Democratic Party that, if nothing else, it would be worth considering. Perhaps, though, one should also think of such arrogance and such disrespect for all that is written. I'm not going to rely on legislation because it's irrelevant anyway. But how will we decide in the Social Democratic Party about the entire Rules of Procedure, and we will see. Even as the debate has already begun, our amendments are still missing. I think they've already been invested. We don't have them on the table yet, but with our heads through the wall, we need to do this, and, as I said, maybe we can change the rules of our customs and behavior. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Sok, who will present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group, it is only this, Mr Petan, that you have repeated too many times that I should not have to explain it to you again. I hope I made myself clear. A week ago, the College took a decision which no parliamentary group objected to the opening of the Rules of Procedure today at 10 a.m. Only the technical reason that the report was not prepared is that you know exactly why we decided that when it is ready, we will continue. The general debate that we are currently having and are talking about the reasons and principles to define ourselves, that is, the reasons and the principles for admission. My assurance that as long as your amendments are not on the bench, I interrupt this point, I think there is sufficient reason for us to be able to debate normally in the context of the general debate. Mr Sok, please give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Please, I just reexplained what you had just said before, that it was violence against you. I don't think there's this violence, that's all. You say that violence is upon you and that we do not work in accordance with the rules of procedure. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry. I'd like to tell you that I agree with what you said. I have no comments. But first, I'd like to remind you of another matter. Even this morning, when we were told how we were going to do what we were going to do, no one protested that tomorrow morning, at 10 a.m., when things were ready, we would proceed. That's what you're saying. That's just the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr Sok would like to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you for saying so, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! Just as the debate on this Rules of Procedure has begun, it can happen that, of course, the piano will also end. And that's not a good guide to the rules of procedure. We all know that the Rules of Procedure are adopted by a two-thirds majority of the Members present. And as you were in the coalition with Mr Anderlic in charge, of course, planning that on a certain day and a certain hour, you must all be here to be able to vote, and we are counting on that in the opposition. And, of course, we can't agree that you're just putting the matter over your thumb. One Wednesday at 10:00, then you find out that by 10:00, we're not going to be doing this on Thursday, and then you say, no, and we're going to do it today and so on. This is not normal parliamentary work. And no rules of procedure, no act so well written, does anything help if people do not respect it and play with arguments of power, every principled position and all agreements. We can't agree with that. We have already proposed, on the agenda itself, and in New Slovenia as well as the Social Democratic Party, that we should not adopt the Rules of Procedure, following a rapid procedure, but that we should do the first reading at this meeting, and that we should take a little more time to discuss the important act of the National Assembly such as the Rules of Procedure. Of course, you didn't want to hear it. You have rejected this proposal and you want to vote with power, the number of votes you have. What can be our answer in such a case? It's just that we're already saying that we don't mean it and we can't support it. We do not agree with such a procedure, and our votes, however, will not be intended to confirm such working methods and the rules of procedure you are proposing. As soon as we took a look at it at this time of day, we could see that there are as many as 46 articles in the present proposal of the Rules of Procedure that are different from what we once considered in the third reading in this House. So, 46 of these are the differences. It is true that these differences are not large, but differences are, and it is normal for Members to have enough time to take a thorough look at and study where changes are and to what extent these changes interfere with some normal parliamentary work. If I briefly fly over the business regulations that are in the material that we have received, because the legal opinion of the secretariat for legislation we have not had time to study - we have received it today during the meeting, we have not been able to look at the amendments, and we have not been able to submit our amendments until then - I would say that we do not agree with the following in this Rules of Procedure. The College of Presidents to decide instead of the National Assembly - this matter has already been disputed in the previous proposal. I think we have voted six times on this matter, we have rejected it six times, and the proposalers with their fellow Member, Anderlic, are proposing this same matter again. It is true that you have probably corrected it with amendments now, but I am talking about what is written in the original proposal of the Rules of Procedure. So we do not agree that the College of Presidents will decide which draft law Parliament will consider. We do not agree that the President's College will decide which law we will deal with after a reduced procedure, which law we will deal with under an urgent procedure. We do not agree that the College of the President of the National Assembly, instead of the National Assembly, would decide on the composition and management of working bodies. In particular, we do not agree that the College of President would do this on the basis of the weighted votes of the leaders of the Group of Members. Therefore, the co-operation of the President must be equivalent and the College can only decide on the basis of the majority, it is said, the number of all parliamentary groups. This is our proposal, and in this proposal we will also insist with our eight parliamentary mandates; we will see what the outcome will be. Another issue that we disagree with and have mentioned and proposed solutions already in the previous proposal, in the previous round, is limiting the debate. See, Members are representatives of the electorate, Members are directly elected by the electorate and must have the opportunity in Parliament to be able to express their views on all matters. It is simply unacceptable to show the rationalisation of Parliament's work by limiting the debate to Members and representatives of parliamentary groups, I do not know, for five minutes or three minutes, or for a budget of 20 minutes. More than that, the rules of procedure itself should aim to ensure that better draft laws come into Parliament. So the government doesn't put more amendments into their laws than articles. In order not to put an amendment after all on their laws Members of coalition parties and so on. In order to harmonise sooner and to have a major debate in this area between the coalition proposal and the opposition. This would appear to us to be some normal Western European parliamentary orientation. I'm afraid it's happening the other way around. We are witnessing that, in fact, the most time is spent in this House for the coalition to consult each other in this space and that you are here looking for mutual solutions. You could have cited many cases, you should not have to go far back, only yesterday's case in the election of the Constitutional Judge shows that you had different opinions on this matter within the coalition. And we spent quite a lot of time here yesterday for your coordination, not for coordination between the position and the opposition. The next issue that should be settled if we are to transfer most of the parliamentary work to the working bodies is that the current organisation in this national assembly is inadequate. Let's say that one of the working bodies, such as the Infrastructure Committee, has more than a quarter of the members of this Parliament, and if the two committees work at the same time, it actually means that they actually cause each other to be inconclusive. That's a little unacceptable. So the committees should be reduced. Their work should be clarified more precisely and the matter should be rationalised until this stage in order to avoid duplication, first in the working body then in the Parliament itself. It happens that the Committee discusses some matters, discusses with experts' representatives, and then, when the votes are taken, the alternate Members come to vote, many times we find that these alternate Members don't even look at the material, they don't know the material, but then they vote, simply in principle, because it is necessary to accept it, we will do so and raise our hands for it. And in such debates, even different arguments do not help. I myself have come to know this more closely in the Committee on Agriculture, where, in at least two laws, I wanted to participate actively and also on the basis of professional decisions, and we have always been voted on by the Members who replaced the regular members of a committee there. Thus, this should be prevented from being replaced by alternate members on the Committee. It is also unacceptable that some of the issues dealt with by a working body that was inconclusive could be decided at a joint meeting. This is simply unacceptable. So the working body must be final, so we Members were eventually elected, and that is why we are also paid to work in this Parliament. The next thing that is unacceptable to us is that in the two supervisory commissions, this is in the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances, and in the Commission on Security and Intelligence Services, the opposition does not have a majority. Perhaps in New Slovenia as well as in the Social Democratic Party, we know more about this way of working, how difficult it is to accept or run such a commission in which the opposition does not have a majority, Dr. Bayuk sometimes makes a fool of himself and says that he feels like he is swimming in marmalade. He says, "The more I swim, the more I don't come anywhere. I can't take any decision." Nothing on these committees goes smoothly. There are objections here and, of course, it should be considered not only that the leadership of such committees belongs to the opposition but also to allow the opposition to have a majority in these two commissions. After all, there is one party in the opposition, once there is another party and the rules of procedure should actually be written for all situations, but not for a particular situation when we had such rules of procedure in the government, when we were in the opposition, but perhaps different. That's a little unacceptable. As far as the urgency of the procedure is concerned. In this proposal for a Rules of Procedure, it should be clear when the Government may require an urgent procedure, because we have always witnessed in this National Assembly that the urgency of the procedure is supported or, if you wish, a rapid procedure is being used and that this procedure is being misused. Just as a rapid procedure in relation to the Rules of Procedure is now being misused. There is no urgent need in this country to adopt this Rules of Procedure in a swift manner. None at all. Therefore, it is clear in the present rules of procedure when a rapid procedure is applied, and in fact, you always take and vote and take decisions on the basis of a rapid procedure under this critical necessity of national needs. So in the opposition, of course, we view this as an abuse and we cannot agree with it. As far as the amendments to the bill are concerned. Therefore, there should be no restrictions on the smaller parliamentary groups. When you changed the constitution and wrote down the 4% threshold for entry into parliament and applied the proportional electoral system, you had to be aware that this would mean that smaller parliamentary groups would always be present in Parliament. It is clear, then, that through the Rules of Procedure, if the Constitution has already provided this, it is necessary to give these smaller groups the opportunity to participate in the parliamentary work equally if they are not able to do the same. If you are restricting the third reading of amendments with ten Members' signatures, you are, of course, separating these smaller Members from actively and equally participating in the process of enacting laws. There's a lot of loose ends in this rules of procedure that are ahead of us. I do not know what I am saying, that in 12 places the word "right" is used, that in several places the word "may" appears to use phrases such as "unless otherwise specified in this Rules of Procedure" and so on. I don't know, I don't know about systems that well, but it seems to me that it's unacceptable, because the word "right," "may," "may," and so on, of course, gives an opportunity for different interpretations. However, the Rules of Procedure should be written in such a way that it cannot be interpreted in any other way as interpreted. He reminded you of the complication of the vote on the government of Dr. Andrei Bajuk, when it was clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that the ballot, which is not completed, is not valid in such a way that it is surrounded by "for" or "against". At that time, in fact, before the eyes of the whole of Slovenia, you raised a dispute about what was done with the voicemail, which was not so fulfilled. And since this happened then, you have changed it in the present rules of procedure and you have gone to write it down as it was written in the law on elections that apply to citizens who are not professional politicians, of course, that every voice is valid, which clearly makes it possible to distinguish the will of the electorate. We're suggesting that this can't be the case. Professional policies like us must be subject to different and clearly defined principles in such matters. So I'm here to point out one of these shortcomings, but I've also warned about other dilemmas. I hope to say that the rules of procedure before us are not some improvement in the current rules of procedure. This Rules of Procedure aim primarily at two or three objectives. The aim of this Rules of Procedure is for a group to decide through college on those matters which are actually within the competence and competence of the national assembly. And the aim of this Rules of Procedure is to reduce the debates of the opposition in Parliament to a minimum. This, of course, does not mean Parliament anymore, that is, if you use the words of the writer Jančar, then you could say that this means the introduction of some democracy, because if you look at a little history, you will be able to see that already in the Parliament of the Habsburg Monarchy, you know the Institute of Unlimited Discussions of Members. So we're not going forward on this, we're going back. Unfortunately, once again, I know we can't convince you about these matters. In fact, it doesn't matter what anyone says, how they say it, you've decided to do it, and you'll do it if you have enough votes. As far as New Slovenia is concerned, I would like to inform you that we will not take part in this matter or that we will - in the way that you have now envisioned it - take a clear and loud vote against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I hope that this time you will not take the right back into your own hands and interrupt Members in the debate, under the current rules of procedure. Allow me to begin my work by reading the MRI from today, starting at 10.09 a.m.: "We have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	Mr Pece, you have been asked to speak as a representative of the parliamentary group to present an opinion on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly following a rapid procedure. I think that we have cleared the debate on the classification or non-grading of this item on the agenda, and I ask that you stick to what you have to say. Please, Mr Pece, give us your Group's opinion on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	I'm not going to follow your instructions, because I find it ridiculous that you've given your views to two parliamentary groups. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	Within the framework of a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	Yesterday, following the conclusion of the meeting of the National Assembly, the Rules of Procedure Commission and the Committee met [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Mr Pece, I remind you that you have the floor to present your opinion on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	The Rules of Procedure Commission has, however, concluded its consideration of the draft Rules of Procedure, with a report and also a review of the amendments in the drafting process. Due to this consideration of this point which has been announced, we will not today [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	Mr Pece, for the second time, I warn you, in accordance with the rules of procedure, then I will take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	dealt with. [[...]] I suggest we deal with it tomorrow at 10 a.m. And since you warned me, I'll read the last part again. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	Mr. Pece, please limit yourself to what you say, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	In view of this consideration of this point, as announced today, to be addressed,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	I take your word for it, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	and suggest that the assembly propose it tomorrow at 10 a.m. [[...]] So much for the intro. Now, if you'll excuse me. They have already opposed us to the speedy process and to the 201st article, which speaks thoroughly, what are the conditions, or what are the extraordinary needs, which would meet such a process as is before us. In the context of its additional opinion of 25.3., the secretariat also made 68 comments on a proposal for a procedure. 68, which means every fifth paragraph of the draft Rules of Procedure, the Secretariat has given its views. I think that these are sufficient arguments or sufficient arguments that, for the adoption or consideration of this Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly should take more time, especially because you yourself are probably aware that the Rules of Procedure in a wide range of circles constitute a small constitution, and for us Members it represents or should provide guidance on how this National Assembly should work. And if we exclude action from the past, when this National Assembly has already violated the existing Rules of Procedure several times, even today, and if we believe in it in the best faith, we are confident that it should be adopted in accordance with that procedure, as it comes under such an act adopted by the Quorum majority, which will have consequences for all the legislative acts adopted by this National Assembly. In the context of the draft Rules of Procedure itself, as proposed by the applicants for consideration, it is unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party. It is unacceptable because, in all its contents, I think, in all my own articles, it violates or limits the rights of Members. I think we have encountered a violation of that basic constitutional provision, which is to ensure democracy in Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen! If we do not provide democracy in this house, how will we guarantee it in this country? I think that this is unacceptable and that, at least here, we should approach the road so that we can tell each other what is going on in order to achieve better laws that will, above all, be reflected in the lives of citizens of this country. According to my assessment and according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, the objective of this Rules of Procedure is exclusively one. This is the creation of clientelism within this house as well. We're not going to support the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Madam President! Dear Members and Members! In order to adopt rules of procedure as a small constitution, it is very important, in fact, what is the way in which the rules of procedure are dealt with and adopted. In fact, this also gives its mark to the new rules of procedure. And if we sum up, then actually today's start isn't exactly the best way to adopt this rule of procedure. In June in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that in the further discussion and discussion of the Rules of Procedure, in this National Assembly, reason will prevail and that there will also be some open issues that are still, even today, at the beginning of this Rules of Procedure, that will remain open. Nevertheless, we welcome the great progress that has been made since the previous proposal, at least on the most crucial issues that have been raised. It is thus clearly stipulated that the College meetings will be open to the public. It is also possible if an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Commission is adopted, an additional timeframe for Members' groups, for those points where they think and where they will find that their time is too short. However, it is particularly important that time is also set for an individual Member. It is also very important that, in addition to the draft budget, the members of the group have, regardless of size, the possibility of making amendments. The role is also increasing, and in particular the decision-making of the National Assembly, as opposed to the proposal in the autumn, last year. Nevertheless, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we draw attention to two open issues, which we believe are, at least first, still essential to our assessment. This is a college issue and a college decision. According to our assessment, it is unnecessary for us to continue to insist on so-called, weighted votes in this proposal of the Rules of Procedure. It is said that power and decision is transferred from this national assembly to college. The fact is that colleges cannot replace the functions of the National Assembly, on the basis of some essential issues. Therefore, an amendment has been tabled in the Group of Members that, in cases where the College decides, the College's decision is taken if the proposal is supported by the majority of the College members present. According to our assessment, this would in fact remove any doubt that the College would assume greater responsibility in those cases where this responsibility could actually be taken over by the National Assembly. And the second question is, this is Article 118. In Article 118, we are convinced that the amendment to the Rules of Procedure Commission, which proposes the possibility of including two proposals for laws, of bringing together two proposals for laws, in practice there will be misunderstandings and ambiguity. Secondly, it will also be possible to play procedures, or proposals, by which individual laws are dealt with by the government. In the Group of Members, we assess, at least on these two open issues, that reason will prevail, and that eventually this will also allow the adoption of a proposal for a Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Youth Slovenia Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. After a few months of recess, we meet again with a proposal for a Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The proposal we have today on the table differs from the previous one in that it is complemented by some proposals that received sufficient support months ago. Certainly the proposal is better than the previous one, and this certainly does not mean that the proposal is now flawless and acceptable to all. We are all united in the fact that the old rules of procedure are to survive and need thorough renovations. There is no doubt that work in the National Assembly must be rationalised. These rationalisations will be felt most precisely in the smallest parliamentary groups. However, the rationalisation of the work of the National Assembly must not in any way mean that a certain political option is being eliminated from the game. All parliamentary groups, including the smallest, must play an equal role in the consideration of any material adopted in this house. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the amendment of Article 49 of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. Since the new Rules of Procedure transfer many tasks and competences to the home labour bodies, this amendment provides the minimum that allows all parliamentary groups to play an equal role in the work of the national assembly. As it turns out, we will not be able to avoid weighting our votes to the college. It would therefore be worth considering that decisions in college are taken by 2/3 votes weighted. The amendment of the parent working body to Article 68, and at least that part of the decision of the college concerning the time limit of the debates that our main critics have flown to in the past, saves. I am also pleased that the proposaler has listened to our repeated warnings about the possibility of sending groups to submit amendments to the updated draft budget. The work will require much more organisation and assembly of Members under the new Rules of Procedure. Members of the smaller parliamentary groups, who have fewer soports of professional colleagues, will be most sensitive to the new organisation of work in Parliament. However, it is also in our interest that European standards in the field of legislative procedures are also passed on to the Slovenian Parliament. To the extent that our proposals receive sufficient support or the content contained in them is otherwise recorded in the new Rules of Procedure, to the extent that we assess that we are allowed equal cooperation in the adoption of legislation, the new Rules of Procedure, although stricter and more stringent, will also be acceptable to Members of the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Bogdan Barovic made a written statement to the unlimited debate, and the discussion of the other Members and Members is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not gonna need more than five minutes. But I'm going to start a little differently than my fellow Member of Parliament. That is, if we look at the provisions of Article 65 of the new Rules of Procedure, which we are discussing today, and if we look further at Article 79 of the new Rules of Procedure, which we are discussing today, we can see that it is not really important to discuss this, because, if this were already the case, you, I am talking about the new Rules of Procedure, which we are talking about, have violated this Rules of Procedure. And there are so many articles like that. And in such a way, by not being able to tell me that I am talking about the new rules of procedure, I am protesting against the conduct of my fellow Member. Furthermore, my personal opinion is exactly the same as my previous colleague, so that this new Rules of Procedure can be improved in certain elements. However, as a small constitution, it is not necessary for us to adopt it quickly and immediately, regardless of the provisions that I might find, but unfortunately I did not have time, in the new rules of procedure, how to proceed in the event that the President or the President of the National Assembly proposes certain content around the postponement of the agenda items, or if such transfers are proposed by the Home Committee. Notwithstanding the provisions of the old Rules of Procedure, and irrespective of the provisions referred to in Articles 60 to 90, it is regrettable that the result is the same, that we will and we will follow our own judgment and sometimes pass the rules of procedure. If we have some order, then I'm in favour of respecting him, respectable colleagues and colleagues. And if we are in Parliament, which comes from the word 'parlare' or to speak, I think it is the fundamental right of all people to express their opinion in this House, if this is not merely fictional or irrelevant. That would be all I wanted to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kelemina, please. Then Mr. Rokavec
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. In my humble debate, I will also raise some of my concerns with regard to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. My general assessment is that the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not need to be amended at all, that the existing Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are extremely good, relatively good, but unfortunately, because of the inability of the organisation of the establishment, the appropriate organisation, unfortunately, cannot implement in all its provisions and also the inability of both the leadership of the National Assembly and all other institutions to take over those rights that they actually have under existing legislation, and they have, under the existing Rules of Procedure, to fully implement them. This is the basic reason why the existing Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly do not work. Therefore, because it is interpreted in all elements, wherever possible, negatively, rather than the rules of procedure and all legislation in this country being interpreted positively, it is always interpreted negatively. And under such a rule of procedure, if we also adopt a new one and ten new ones now, we will never achieve the effect that we could achieve if we all interpreted these documents together from a positive perspective and looked for some positive solutions, not just some negative one. At the same time, I will point out only two things or perhaps one thing, dear colleagues, particularly the proposer of these amendments. In fact, I am asking the proposer how he imagines, in view of the already existing organisation of working bodies, that the focus of the work of this national assembly be transferred to the working bodies. How? Space? Time? Human resources? I'm only going to expose these three dimensions. We know what's happening on the work force now. We know that we do not have the right spaces, Mr Anderlich, you know that we do not have the right spaces. And now you're demanding that the difficulty of working be transferred to the working bodies. How, where we're gonna do these things. That's what I'm interested in in in the first phase. You can work under impossible conditions. We sit at the table, and I don't have room sometimes, if I come between the last ones, but I have other things to do, logically, I come between the last ones and I don't have anywhere to sit. And they squeeze me out there with one chair at the table, and I hold the material on my knees. Should I work constructively on the committee in this way? Please! Second thing. I don't know how you imagine the time dimension, how we're going to take the burden of work to the working bodies. Now the following, honourable proposalr, Mr Anderlich, is happening, if you do not know yet, but you certainly know what is going on. The working bodies, some or most of the cases, are precisely because of the extraordinary conditions prevailing in this country, and because of the vast number of laws adopted in a fast procedure, all the other materials that the working body has to deal with are in immeasurably time-consuming distress. You call us a meeting at nine, ten, and you say, the president has already ordered that the work of the committee be completed at twelve or one o'clock at the latest, because we have to empty the room because another working body comes to the same place. And it puts us under pressure to adopt a whole series of laws as soon as possible and to discuss as little as possible and even ask us to discuss it as possible. How can we specifically prepare certain documents if we do not have enough time to do so? Do you think the National Assembly will now meet three times less? It is possible that the National Assembly will be less occupied and will be able to occupy more of its working bodies. However, I wonder whether working bodies will have sufficient time to deal with individual laws and other documents adopted by the National Assembly. Not to mention the next dimension, that's human resources. In this scope of work that we have today in the National Assembly, our professional services, in particular on some committees, commissions, cannot and are not partial to the performance of all the works that are ahead of them. Let's just look at the infrastructure committee. Please be reasonable! See what everything in the Infrastructure Committee needs to be addressed, what materials all of which ministries we cover, how specific knowledge is, what specific expertise is. And we don't have qualified people for that. I now state to you, completely in mind, without any analysis that the Infrastructure Committee needs at least five specialised experts covering specific areas [[End warning sign]] that we will be able to perform the role that the actual body of work should already play, in accordance with the existing rules of procedure; we will be given additional responsibilities under the new rules of procedure. Why the National Assembly or Working Bodies [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	Mr. Kelemina [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	they do not perform a fundamental function, such as monitoring the enforcement of legislation in a particular field, preparing positions for the National Assembly, preparing policies in specific areas and proposing a specific policy to the National Assembly for admission. [[...]] We do not even perform the basics of the existing rules of procedure. We are not a piece or existing documentation [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Mr. Kelemina, I apologize, the existing rules of procedure, of course, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	Oh, I'm sorry, I forgot, I'm sorry. In short, a whole bunch of questions. And I'd like to ask the proposer if he can answer these questions. When he answers all these questions, I may also support it, but I do not think I will support this rule of procedure, because there is no need for change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. In its debate, I would limit myself only to the last, 288, which speaks of the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. A lot of this debate has already been said by the predecessor, Mr Kelemina. The fact is that the introduction of the new Rules of Procedure will completely change the way this National Assembly works. And that is, if we do not put the possibility of a full reorganisation of the work into effect before this Rules of Procedure are put into effect. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Please, Your Honor, respectable for peace in the hall. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u135	Unless there is a time-frame for the full reorganization of the work in the National Assembly, this is the right functioning of the working bodies, which, after the introduction of this Rules of Procedure, would have a significantly more crucial role than they now have, as well as of the parliamentary groups, then I am actually afraid that the introduction of this Rules of Procedure might actually create a significantly greater chaos than we have at this point, perhaps in some cases. It would therefore be useful to consider whether the introduction of this Rules of Procedure would in fact be planned for one appropriate time, which would suggest taking a good half-year for a thorough preparation. In addition, it is likely that the complete change in the rules of the game in the middle of the mandate is very sensitive, but it is precisely this complete change in the rules of the game that takes time. And second. However, it would probably point out, on the basis of comments and reasoned questions, which were also addressed to the Constitutional Commission's meeting, whether or not the constitutional audit procedure would actually be subject to this Rules of Procedure earlier. I am referring to this issue because, at the moment, the question is whether the rules of the game concerning the constitutional audit procedure are laid down. In this case, it would probably make sense that only for this particular case, the Rules of Procedure or the Rules of Procedure would have been in place earlier. When we were interviewing the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Slovak Parliament yesterday, the representatives of this committee told us that in the Slovak Parliament each Member has one working body or a maximum of two. With us, a number of Members cover three, four, or five working bodies. And if we do not change the way the working and the number of working bodies are covered by an individual Member, I am sure that it will happen, for the first time, that the working bodies will be inconclusive, that the working bodies will not make proposals for laws as high-quality as the state council will decide, but that the problem will be second, because the quality of the laws when it comes to implementation can be even worse than the quality of the laws now. I therefore believe that it would certainly be necessary to take sufficient time to reorganise and prepare the National Assembly with the new rules of the game set out in the new Rules of Procedure. That's why I proposed this amendment. And I think it would also make sense to think seriously about it in its support. But it's the next one. Many now wonder which side he is on, whether he is in position or in opposition. This amendment would be in the middle of a mandate. Implementation of the Rules of Procedure. So it would be significantly less disturbing than it would be for some at this point. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sonja Areh Lavrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members, Members. Since there is a general debate on the rules of procedure, I will add only two sentences. You know, I don't care about the rules of procedure in its form or changing content, but about its respect. The rules of procedure have not been respected many times. And I think that's how it's gonna be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u139	When we have before us today a new proposal for the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are actually doing unnecessary work, because this would have been done if there had been a greater democratic presence in a preliminary attempt, a greater willingness for a democratic agreement if the applicants had not then represented a kind of policy of hegemony. Integrating solutions that are not life-threatening, not in this House, not in other European parliaments. And even in the face of the current proposal of the Rules of Procedure, I think it would be best if I somehow connected myself to my predecessor to make a real decision on the implementation of this Rules of Procedure. We have already heard about the inappropriate spatial and human and other possibilities for this Parliament to operate. And for this reason, it seems to me that the well-intentionedness of such rules of procedure and such solutions, but of course improved solutions, would be best tested if we agreed to enter into force with the start of a future mandate. Since we would then work forward and would not have a direct impact on the work of this mandate, we would have doubts as to why such an urgency and such an imposition would be. For thinking that it is imperative for ruling parties to put in place some other options before the presidential elections, which will then be possible with such swift procedures, is, of course, in the meantime and realistic. At the same time, I am also asked some other questions, particularly after visiting our parliamentary delegation in Britain. Indeed, many times in the explanations of the need for a substantially amended Rules of Procedure, it was said here that Parliamentary practice is markedly different in other countries and that the possibility for a Member to directly influence the course of the legislative procedure and direct access to some direct democracy is lower. On our visit to Britain, we were convinced of the opposite. They also have a three-stage treatment of laws there, but I agree with the two-step procedure. And we have been able to see that Members or Members of the Group have a significantly greater possibility of overseeing power. It is a matter of direct democracy, for every week the Prime Minister is at the disposal of Members and the opposition, that they are in fact in the right way exchanging political views and controlling the power of Members. What we have here is extremely weak. They also have an opportunity in the UK, which is our proposal for the current Rules of Procedure, which does not allow them to directly include the current topics in the general debate. Thus, on our visit to the English Parliament, the President of the United States signed the Act on the increase of customs duties on steel the previous day. And the next day, a debate began, what does this mean for Britain, without extraordinary meetings and without everything. I think that if we are going towards such a drastic change in the rules of procedure that we must also have such a possibility. This is a classic practice in European parliaments, a quick, up-to-date response to pressing problems, to current events which, of course, have an impact on that country. [[Pisk.]] Just one sentence to wrap it up. As I said before, I will believe that you are governed by the interests of the state if you accept that we are doing this for the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u141	I truly expected that pragmatism would prevail here and that those who wanted to change the rules of procedure would take into account the situation in the repeated votes that did not end with the support of the Rules of Procedure and that they would try to find the smallest common denominator that could have implemented the changes they wanted. I have the impression that things have sailed in a different direction and the more I read the rules of procedure, the more problems I see. One is that it is true, as the previous colleague or colleague said, that the Member is taking the floor. I wouldn't have said it differently, either, as has been said, and I've already mentioned the arguments for it in the previous version, and I'm not actually going to repeat myself. The College's consultative and decision-making role also poses a problem for the President of the National Assembly, because if he places it with a weighted majority of decision-making in college, this option can in fact only be placed in the role of the executor of the intentions of the ruling coalition. The majority of the coalition will always be sufficient. Others don’t even need to walk, for the weighted majority will, of course, draw wherever they want. However, the President of the National Assembly or the President of the National Assembly is a function which concerns everything or should cover all Members. And if the consultative body is colleges, then it can perform this function. But if he makes a decision, he can't do it anymore because he's tied to the decision. That is why I think that this intermediate level is dangerous for our still fresh parliamentaryism. Then it's a matter of urgency. Here, however, I think that if the government were to decide on the urgency, I would say arbitrarily, then it could happen, for example, if it had happened as before, that we had different coalitions in the government, as in Parliament, that some things would not have gone quickly, and the government would have reasons to do so, depending on its status or character. I would say that if the government were to make an emergency provision for the adoption of a law, then this should be taken into account and that this house should be checked whether it is true whether the government has complied with the law or the rules of procedure on the subject. It is very difficult to set fair starting points here because for two years the Institute of Rapid Treatment has been being abused for everything the coalition wants to move forward quickly. And hardly any of these laws are so that we can see it as an extraordinary need of the state. I agree with the colleague who spoke about the need to respect the Rules of Procedure. The book is getting thicker. It is said here that we are approaching Western European parliamentary practice, I would like to see some similar rules, as thick, as precise, as regulating a number of details as ours. There's a lot of ballast here, but I'm going to take a closer look at the amendments, but I've warned you about this in my opinion. So, I am still in favour of a pure solution that the College is a consultative body, but the President should also have some validity and decide, on the basis of a consultation, on matters which would otherwise be decided by a college with a weighted majority. Otherwise, it will only be an extension of the coalition, not of the entire Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You want to replicate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u143	In fact, I would like to make it clear to Mr Peterlet that, with some careful reading or not, with the evasive passage of the Rules of Procedure, all that has been dealt with in this Rules of Procedure has been incorporated into this Rules of Procedure and what has also been provided from your deliberations - from your deliberations - I stress - and the suggestions you have given, what is supposed to be acceptable as a minimum common denominator, as you call it. I think it's bad that we've gone to this minimum common denominator because we've drawn up rules of procedure that are comparable to at least seven countries of the European Union. It is not right to say two hours ago in this Chamber how it is necessary to follow the progress made in the pre-accession strategy of the European Union and how it is necessary to do everything that we have committed ourselves to at many conferences, where you have, after all, yourself and this national assembly have represented because you are the President of an important commission and a member of the convention now and so on. When you talk about the abuse of speedy procedures in the last two years, 90% of things go into the short term to adopt laws that are part of the pre-accession strategy programme of Slovenia. Mr. Peterle, look at the list, maybe you have a problem sitting in this room too little and watching the agenda, maybe that's the problem. But I'm sitting at all points alone, and I know that. If you are talking about wanting there to be less rapid procedures, faster adoption of laws, then we urgently need to change the legislative process. For there is no doubt that there will be at least one third fewer agenda items since the legislative procedure is different. And of course I don't understand it - you keep sharing lessons for us here, in this Chamber, how we have to respect the European Commission's report, and each year it says that we have an impossible legislative procedure. At the same time, share your lessons with us so that we cannot accept anything so that we can achieve it. I don't understand how this works. You've all received a request, an appeal, however you want us to do something together from those starting points that we stayed at six months ago. Nothing, ladies and gentlemen, nothing, not a single initiative. However, when the proposal is prepared and taken into account your proposals, which have been thoroughly examined from the previous examination, through all the magnetograms and written materials that have been, it is not right again. I have to say, it's not hard for me to endure these discussions if you want to make decisions and so on. Yes, Mr Peterle, we want to make a decision in accordance with and to the extent that the Group of Members has received seats in the elections. It's legitimate, it's democratic, and that's the only right thing to do. Therefore, even with regard to the replica, it is the decision-making at the college, which is solely the decision on procedural issues, on organisation issues, on the questions of the timetable - I do not imagine that 90 people will decide on how we will draw up a timetable for the coming month. If we now open the debate on what to discuss in this Chamber in April, I am sure that we will spend some time on this, and we will not be able to do so in a qualitative way. However, and of course, on the other hand, 12 representatives, 16, not 14 Members, may decide on everything that should also be procedural in order to set the agenda for 14 Members, when the meetings will be held and so on, and I find it unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Podobnik. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u145	Mr Anderlič lists seven countries with which this proposal for a Rules of Procedure is comparable. I believe that certain provisions, some solutions, have been taken from individual businesses, but I doubt the comparability of the whole with the seven countries. I do not object to the need for change, nor have I ever opposed it. However, in this reference to comparability, there has been a great deal of deceiving in previous attempts. I mentioned earlier, even in the past attempt some of the Anglo-Saxon practice were eloquent. Although I knew something, I didn't have any serious arguments. On the basis of the visit and all of this about the possibilities for the direct influence of Members in that system, I now have a very different picture. I have to say, these comparability data don't hold much. Parliamentary tradition in our country must also be taken into account. It is necessary to know that, elsewhere, the rules of procedure or procedural provisions have changed gradually. We can't do so-called "big bang" with the rules of procedure. We must take into account the degree of development of our parliamentary system. I agree, Mr Anderlich, with you to express the relationship in the elections. But he's still in college. You'll take a lot more, I know the practice, and I know how business regulations are being pushed through your thumb right now. But if you have that kind of power and opportunity, there's going to be a lot more abuse. We must be critical and considerate in the name of democracy. You have entered the Rules of Procedure yourself, but you speak in multitude. That's what you're saying. You're already aware of the power. Yeah, those are later. That you are already aware of the position of "de facto" president of the National Assembly. That's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u146	Mr. Jerovšek! Please, not with personal disqualifications. I ask you to concentrate on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure before you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u147	Madam Vice President! I'm as personal as I am here to admit to Mr Anderlich that he is an excellent politician. No dissalifications. I'm just analyzing his political ambitions. [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u148	This is not the subject of today's debate. Mr. Jerovšek! Please analyze the rules of procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u149	Yeah. At the moment, I have a document on the table through which I can do this most easily and analyse the rules of procedure. Mr Anderlich is absolutely not going to take it away from me because he's a good politician, like in some way he won't blame me or anything. He knows exactly how well we know each other on a political level so that we know each other among the lines of reading. [[Laugh.]] Madam Vice President! Now you have again interrupted my thought that I could actually discuss business provisions, but I have expressed my opinion that we should not simply inherit these assurances of not knowing what European comparability is. I know we'll get better. But some things are worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I think it's right and proper to inform you, of course. I think it is right that we conclude the general debate today. Then we take a 15-minute recess until the extraordinary session to prepare for it, so that there will be no need to force the discussion into a discussion with cartridges which have no connection with the Rules of Procedure. If we are able to conclude the general debate by 17.15, I think it gives us the right time to take a 15-minute recess to prepare for an extraordinary meeting that we would start at 5:30. Mr Podobnik also addressed the replica and then Mr Drobnik and Sok discussed it. Mr. Companion. [[A voice from behind.]] Okay. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. After this charming performance, my colleague Jerovšek would like to refer to his colleague Peterlet and colleague Anderlich. First of all, I would like to say that the proposal for a Rules of Procedure, as put into the procedure by my colleague Anderlič, has been accompanied by a good text by my colleague Ptrč and my colleague Kebric. This material, along with the amendments, was used by colleague Anderlič to put his own energy into this material, including the opposition's concerns. I'd like to make this public. I would also like to say that Tone Anderlich was very busy and wanted to see the change in the rules of procedure come to an end as soon as possible. Finally, this also comes to the leader of Parliament's most powerful parliamentary group. However, there is a working part of our parliamentary group, and I would say fair participation in this work is made by my colleague Rokavec. One of Achilles’ tendons, or delicate city of the Rules of Procedure, is the status of the college. We have to admit that. This double role is one of the amphibians, which is probably where we plow the thorns in European practice, most likely. I hope we can think carefully about how we can think of solutions. I suggest that we no longer go to "ad personnel" here, and that we go directly to solutions, because I think the climate is such that the National Assembly will have a new Rules of Procedure. Here I would also tell my colleague Anderlich that no compromise proposal in the form of an amendment should be written for the price of compromise or for the procedure to go through, but at the same time the solution will be non-lifeless and unfulfilled. If I am specific, with the amendment to Article 21, it is proposed that the President of the National Assembly - here I illustrate this sensitive issue of the status of colleges, its powers and how to write provisions, but this is not just a substantive debate, it is not just an amendment, it is a discussion of the College and its powers. The amendment reads: "The President of the National Assembly shall send to the members of the College material for the College meeting at least five days before the College meeting." And justification: "Amendment enables college members to prepare for a high-quality decision-making session of the college." I am afraid that if we adopt such a provision, we will have to violate it repeatedly in practice. Comrade Anderlič, if this provision is to be laid down in the Rules of Procedure and it happens that the Government will propose an extraordinary meeting of the assembly in five hours or the next day, the President of the National Assembly will definitely convene a college but will violate this provision. I did not see in the views of the secretariat that I would touch Article 21. I'm asking if this provision is necessary, that's all. Otherwise, I hope that tomorrow, at the time of tomorrow, we will adopt the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you. Two more replicas, first Mr Peterle, then Mr Sok and then Mr Drobnic's debate. Here you go, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u153	Thank you very much. First, to the question of numbers or the current power of anyone in this house. Because of me, LDS can have 88 out of 90, because two are in favour - and those two can be in LDS from minorities. But I suppose, however, first of all, that regardless of the number, the law and the rules of procedure are respected. This is the basic starting point. There are other things going on here - to adjust the rules to the current needs, which need not be cited as evidence. This house could have worked without any problems if it had solved two unfortunate issues: the abuse of speedy procedure and the abuse of replicas. This is on the one hand a matter of leadership and on the other hand some other matters. But these two are making trouble. You can limit it as much as possible to close your mouth to Members, the more it will be said, even if the replica is limited to once and for two minutes or whatever it will be, because the nature of Parliament is such that things are discussed. So, Tone, in no performance of mine will you find support for the college to decide in the way that it is now written here in the new version - to determine the pre-debate time for a certain law. As soon as this is done, it is clear that not every Member can come in line, even though the law, for example, specifically concerns his area. And it can happen to someone if it's not exactly the head of the parliamentary group that he won't talk here for a long time, but he'll have to answer his people in the constituency, what he's doing in Ljubljana. I myself have always advocated the idea of leaving the college a consultative body to avoid what I have said before. Many problems would have been solved by this, and I must add to what I have already said at the outset, and before that, Ambassador Sok said that when the government stops so far from amending its proposals, we will have half the time we had before. Since more amendments such as articles are applied by the Government, not by Members. I'm in favour of not giving the marriage back and not repeating it in two or once in three rounds. Semosa this, but only then make sure, dear coalition, that the government prepares coordinated proposals with you and that the opposition will say three more times, and then you will vote, and then we will go through. Most matters on the subject of marriage, most of the time you spend with the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, the replica. Then it's a replica of Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u155	I'd like to rephrase the motioner for a moment. It is certain that we are talking about the need to amend the legislative procedure so that we should do so on the basis of an argument. So why? Explain why? If we're going to explain this, we should have some analysis of the current state of affairs. Why is it that laws are discussed in Parliament for so long? You have, my fellow Members of the Coalition, so large a majority that every law in a fast procedure can be adopted here in Parliament. They would listen to the opposition's proposals and actually accept them. Your fellow Member, Mr Kramberger, is not here today, today in front of the Minister of Food of the Kingdom of Denmark, he said that you have such a large majority that because of this large majority you cannot accept the law as you would like. As far as college is concerned. If you do this college to decide on the basis of weighted votes, then this is no longer a college. Then rename this organ into something else. This is then a small parliament, or I do not know, a college should be a consultative body composed of representatives of all the parliamentary groups meeting to consult. I agree with Mr Peterlet. If so decided in college, the President of Parliament also lost his post. In fact, I don't know how he can agree to this, because there will actually be only two decisions in the college, with the support of another smaller party of the Three, you will actually be able to accept everything. So, no one would object to the college accepting a timetable. It's not a matter of debate. Some other things are being disputed. To adopt a timetable, this is not such an important matter as the timetable, and then we have not yet made a decision in the National Assembly. You want to use this proposal and the way you have done it, this voting machine that you already have in this House and that is not willing to listen to anything in the opposition, just to discipline it even more, and to oil it even more so that it will work even more monotonously and through your dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich, then Mr. Petty Officer, debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u157	I don't know, I probably didn't hear correctly, Mr. Peterle, but it seems to me that you said that there was no need to state evidence about the abuse of the rules of procedure and the abuse of laws. There's a lot of them. Mr. Peterle, if you're going to tell anyone that he's abusing the rules of procedure, you're going to have to give us some information. And they're supposed to abuse us, and you're telling us. It's not moral, it's not fair that you do it that way. And use this as an argument why you will not accept some of the things that are proposed quite correctly and so on. You tell me honestly that you don't agree with this and so on. If I had followed the logic that I have explained here before, and on the committee, which is mainly set out in the Rules of Procedure, then your argument that the government should not be making amendments would have dropped. The government will not be able to make amendments to its laws under this Rules of Procedure, but it will have to make the law quality and not send it forward. Now there's no business possibility that yes, we'll get a better government when you, say, participate in something along with it. [[...]] There's no debate here. This is where you think she's bad, but we think they're doing what they can. That's all there is to it. And that, Mr. Peterle, is exactly what this rules of procedure save. And that I do not tell Mr Sok why I should change the legislative procedure. I can explain to you all the 15th time, but really in the explanation of the rules of procedure, really in all the analyses so far, in the end there was a consultation before I think 14 days in this house about the legislative procedure where scientists, professors, analysts and so on and they published a fat study on this topic. Every year, our research sector is doing analyses and comparisons with work in our Parliament and with other parliaments. These analyses are innumerable. All these analyses speak, including the European Commission's report, every year, which also analyzes our work and our procedures from a distance and probably sees things that are "shooting" out, so to speak. One of these things is the most cardinal, this is the legislative process. They point to the legislative process. That we have a complicated, long time to repeat things in the first reading, in the second and even third, and even at the end, before the full vote of the law, we sometimes have to have a debate. This is neither productive nor beneficial, but especially not for some transparency, for some normal work. So I do think that the arguments, the analysis of why the legislative process should be changed is a lot. But if you want, by morning I'll be bringing all these things here and we'll have a look together. I just don't know if I'm gonna have much time for this part. But these analyses really do exist. And you say the deadline isn't the most important thing. The deadline for the work of the National Assembly is the most important thing if we want to organise work, not us all, leadership, professional services and so on. The most important is the timetable. I'm afraid we're going into a compromise that will shorten the time for amendments. Why is the amendment being tabled five days earlier? In order to allow the applicant to submit an opinion, the Secretariat shall give an opinion on whether to obtain any other expert opinion, what public response and so on. And that's what planning, timetable and so on is all about. It is free for the representatives of the 14 Members to say, we will not do so, and then we will come here and vote differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u158	Thank you very much. I hope that you will be informed of the replicas briefly in your non-conclusions with the performance of Mr Anderlich, that then we can prepare for an extraordinary meeting. Mr. Peterle, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. I would also like this path to oppose your expression of hope. You're not there to express your hope. You're there to lead the national council. Since I have no interest in your hope, I have the right to speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u160	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u161	Dear colleague Tone Anderlich. In the first round, you gave time as an argument for such swift procedures. I think that's an unfortunate argument. Let matters be prepared in accordance with the Government's future programme and not fall to the College meeting or later, and then forced meetings of working bodies, unprepared opinions, postponing, postponing and so on. Some points were thus moved from the meeting to the meeting. You may have misheard me about the evidence. If I were to go, I didn't say I wouldn't repeat them or give them away. However, if we went from sitting to sitting, there could be countless cases of how we from this or any other parliamentary group proved that there were no extraordinary circumstances or reasons for the government to require us or the coalition to proceed quickly. These cases are very large, and it would take a long time if you wanted to list them all. That's it. I'm also trying to follow your hopes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. The debate, Mr. Petty Officer, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. From all that has so far come out of this, consideration, and the former, when the Rules of Procedure have been rejected, can be understood by some common human experience - that if you go once with a proposal and burn, then you repeat this same thing, you can expect the matter to get the same way. At least in my life, what I did, I didn't do it that way. I think we should start off on another path, given how it is necessary to gather votes for this Rules of Procedure. There are probably things that are bothering us all, and that minimum should be found first in the opposition and then, of course, we would have to come up with an interesting solution, not start on those more extensive ones and then "call" someone else in a way that is forced. Whether such solutions are being put in place, which translates the constitutional right or constitutional position of a member into a college to actually get the expulsion of Members. That's a fact. This shows that we have entered a dead end or that you have entered a dead end because you have not acted wisely. Postponing such a weight of decision-making to the college is inappropriate, in our opinion, not to the extent that it is. This would, of course, be an interesting innovation for the whole world to then consider our college, but then this college could act as a wall. Yeah, like a wall, it could work. Some countries have had such a thing, but I would not like to repeat it. If the college remains in such a position, it can become a public council body on the other hand, and we will have a "freak" situation in this country to receive the college, and the advisory body will be a national assembly. So, the innovation that was worth the Guinness book. Look, this may be a little funny now, but it's the wrong start and the result will be wrong. Because I don't want to stall, I'm gonna end up here because it's a bad start, and I think it's gonna be a bad end to all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. I conclude the general debate and interrupt the meeting. I'm breaking this agenda. We will start the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the newly interrupted 27th item of the agenda and then continue with the 10th, then with the 22nd item and in order. If the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment prepares the 19th item of the agenda at its meeting tomorrow before the meeting, it may also consider the work of the assembly tomorrow. Thank you very much. The session is closed. We'll continue tomorrow. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] It's been broken. The meeting was suspended and an extraordinary meeting was scheduled at 5.30 p.m. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u165	I would only suggest that, given that so far it is the sixth source of amendments, all amendments should be reviewed by tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u166	Absolutely. Absolutely. That is why, in fact, we have intended to conclude the general debate today and allow the services to draw up a review in view of the upcoming amendments. We're starting a review of the amendments tomorrow. Thank you very much.
