ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! Have a good day. I begin the continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend this afternoon's meeting: Roman Jakič, Bogomir Zamernik, Branko Janc, Davorin Terčon for the afternoon part of the session, Pavel Rupar, Jožef Špindler for the afternoon part of the session, Bogdan Barovic, Yuri Malovrov from 17:00 p.m. onwards, Anton Anderlič for the beginning of the session, Flowers Zalokar Orazem and Max Lavrinc for the start of the session. Since we will be able to detect presence, please insert the cards and press the quorum key. Dear colleagues and colleagues! May I have your attention, please? We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence! 49 Members and Members are present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic to this meeting today, so I welcome them very much among us. Today's continuation of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the end of the 8th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on working relations. As you were informed yesterday, the LDS Club suggested to the assembly that after the end of the 8th meeting we continue to discuss the 21st item, this is a bill amending the Road Safety Act. This proposal, which is of a procedural nature, I will give to the House to vote that, after the end of the 8th item of the agenda, we deal with the 21st item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending the Road Safety Act. We are voting on this proposal. Let's vote! There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Following the conclusion of the 21st item, the assembly will move on to the 9th item, this is a proposal for a feed law and in order to proceed. Thank you very much. So we're going back to dealing with the broken 8th. It's the day's work. We're on page 42 of the amendment review. We are at the stage of the debate on Article 159, to which four amendments have been tabled. Who wants to discuss it? Mr. Visac, please. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please provide the speakers with the needed peace in the hall. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much. We are in a very important article and, of course, we are also in the case of very important amendments affecting existing workers' rights. Given the debate on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs, it was clear that this intervention in the rights of workers was not a matter of social dialogue and, of course, also a matter of social agreement and that there was a sloppie, a misunderstanding, as we call it, so in the Social Democratic Party we prepared an amendment to Article 159, which preserves a right, the right to use an annual leave for workers who were absent due to illness, injury, maternity leave or leave of care and child protection during the current year, and, of course, they could not make use of the leave for those reasons that I said during the current year. And that's why they can use their summer vacations up to 30.6. next year. The text of the law has written down here to someone, I stress once again that this was not a matter of social agreement, which was confirmed by the trade unions at a meeting of the Labour, Family and Social Affairs Committee, that it was determined here that this was only true if someone had worked in the current year for six or more months. So far, it has been considered that if the mother was on maternity leave or on leave for the care of the child, and of course this was a whole year or even more than one year, if she was on maternity leave or on maternity leave and care leave, she could only use her leave in the current summer and could be used up to 30.6. Now it's gonna be short for her. Even a worker who, for example, is injured at work and who does not work for six months or can do nothing during the current year, this worker will have a limited use of annual leave. Once again, we believe that it is necessary to maintain that level of workers' rights in the labour law, which has not been or has not been addressed to this extent through social dialogue and social agreement. This is a case in point, so I think it is right that we do not interfere with the amendments in terms of reducing the rights of workers, but that we should preserve what is enshrined in the current law and what is established as the present right. That is why we also propose an amendment that follows this principle and is the amendment of our parliamentary group under order number 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much. In the following order, Mr Drobnič, then Mrs Cveta Zalokar Orazem and Mr Brenčič came forward. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to refer to my fellow Member, Visian, who did not exactly say so. Actually, it didn't just sneak up on me, and it's not a "time." The representative of the Chamber of Commerce made it clear that the unions knew that this provision had also come in. Then, of course, the minister was somewhat convicted that this was actually an editorial comment or a change. It is simply a principle of the reduction of rights and if the social partners have decided to reduce certain rights, then at least they should respect the principle of non-discrimination, that certain categories are totally out of the question, although there is no need, because they are in a symmetrical position, in relation to the use of leave - this is what we have stressed. Although I do not agree with the deprivation of these rights. So much for explaining to colleagues and colleagues in the hall that you know what this was all about. This is actually the result of the deal, what we have already told us in the beginning was not enough just to be exclusive, but this exclusivity also had to be paid for, the exclusiveness of trade unions. However, some discounts were paid. It's just the truth, and let's say bob beans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zalokar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. I don't think there's any point in bringing back memories and interpreting them. All of us who were present at the board meeting think that each of us has its own version of the vision. But the fact is, in fact, I think that it was at the Committee's meeting that we Members actually pointed out this problem, that this was agreed between the social partners in one way or another and that, in fact, at the Committee's own meeting, we had some way of continuing negotiations. In these negotiations, both partners, or on our initiative, particularly the employer representative, made it clear that they would have agreed, or that they would have been prepared here for a different dictatorship, to which the unions obviously, at least in the negotiations themselves, had agreed, and this was an extremely unfavourable option. We have drafted an amendment in the coalition that you have under point two, and I believe that it fully correctly sums up what we have agreed on on the committee in such a way as I have explained now, and, of course, which means significantly greater rights for those workers who have worked less than six months in a calendar year and have not used annual leave or some problem in the form of illness, injury, maternity leave, leave for the care of the child or whatever. Thus, we propose that the parties to the coalition accept the second amendment to the government's amendment, which is also in some way, in my opinion, was coordinated at the committee's own meeting and agreed on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I used to have a replica, and I allow myself to take after regular discussions the right to finally get the replica. Far from the fact that the subject matter or content of this article was not a matter of agreement, Mr Visjak. It was a matter of agreement, but for the unions, it was very public unpleasant. He was already uncomfortable with the consideration of the law on parental protection and family benefits when, before we began to consider this law, we pointed to this, but only then were we simply informed that it was not so, and so on, even though it was accurate that it was so. The employer representative said exactly that it was an agreement, and nothing else. But, of course, this is something that he wants to talk about right now. The fact is that this is part of this bill, which is a compromise and compromise in any case ultimately to the detriment of workers. This will be very clear, despite the very well-buried content, so it will be in practice. So there's a whole bunch of stuff wrapped in candy, but it's not gonna be cute, it's gonna be bitter all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Vizjak. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I apologize, but if you raise your hand without directing it to be a replica, I cannot really know that there is a difference between a debate and a replica in your head. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Look, I'd like to replicate both of you on the fact that this is a deal. It was clear from the outset that these negotiations had actually continued at the meeting of the Committee. And it was very interesting to hear because from this conclusion that the negotiations continued, there was no agreement on this. Negotiations may continue where negotiations are not concluded, not where agreement is reached. And I have claimed to the unions that this was introduced subsequently and that it was not a matter of social agreement - this part that talks about these six months of work in the current year; it was not a matter of agreement, it was claimed by the unions. That this is true, or that I am right, also confirms the behavior or reaction of the employer’s representative, who initially said that it was agreed when we looked there for variants, as both of us had already said before me, when we were looking for options and negotiating and looking for solutions there, and he finally agreed that it would only be too disproportionate and so on. This is said, from these facts it is clear that this was not a matter of agreement and that this topic was quite misplaced by social dialogue. That is why I believe and I am convinced that if this matter has not been strictly agreed, it is right to maintain the existing level of workers' rights and that we and the amendments are without prejudice to it. The coalition does this; the coalition with amendment number 2 reduces existing workers' rights without clearly agreed between the social partners. I am sure that I am speaking correctly because I received this statement from the unions and the debate on the committee itself clearly showed that there was something else that they were prepared to discuss and coordinate and so on. That's what they say. There was no deal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go, then, Mrs. Belopavlovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you very much. That's quite logically simply not true, Mr. Visjak. I know this is very embarrassing for the unions, but only Article 134 came out of this proposal uncoordinated. Everything else has been coordinated with the social partners and is not moving now, because this is not sounding good for trade unions that have agreed to drastically exacerbate the rights of the existing law. And I don't protect such a "sleep" in this case because he's unjust. Conscientiously, the social partners went to this. Now we'd like to pour ash on each other. This has been pointed out in the consideration of the law on parental protection and family benefits, and it is distasteful that we are now protecting someone who has consciously gone into it. Only Article 134 remained inconsistent, everything else was a matter of agreement. And even the letter was sent to us from the headquarters of the unions so that you would not interfere with the agreed agreement and would not interfere with Article 159. Thank God there was so much virtue on the board that we intervened. That is why we support the amendment of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	First of all, I would like to say that it is not true that this provision has not been harmonised with the social partners. It was cohesive, and we had a very large and serious agreement on the right to leave on this whole holiday. I must say, unfortunately, the union representative who has called on the committee for the past six months has not participated in this negotiating group as a member. That is why he has not been familiar with all negotiations in the last six months. These are the facts that need to be told to resolve any misunderstanding, whether we have been coordinated here or not. We were in line. Secondly, I would like to say that we cannot agree that at these points of leave workers' rights have deteriorated dramatically. They're not getting any worse. We have in the new law a minimum leave defined at a higher level than we have had so far. It's just that we've had four weeks off and we've had 18 days before. Which means if it's 5 days a week means 20 days off, which is more than it was in the law in force. If I return to paragraph 159, this article speaks of the right to transfer leave, when, in cases where a holiday that normally belongs to a worker for a year when he works, in order to actually restore his labour force and the purpose of his leave in terms of safety and health at work can be ensured that this leave can also be used in the following year. The rule for all is that part of the leave should, as a rule, always be exhausted for a period of two weeks or take advantage of it during the current year when it takes place. The second part, however, can be transferred to the following year. In fact, there is another exception to this general rule in Article 159. In order to be able to spend more than half of his vacation, then the entire vacation is transferred to the following year, when someone has been working for half a year in the past year, and then he has been absent for illness or maternity leave. That is to say, in fact, we are giving the possibility that after six months of working, when someone was working, but could not use the entire vacation, he can carry the entire vacation even next year. These things were obviously not clear enough in the text and, therefore, this amendment, which was tabled by the four parties’ parliamentary groups, is an amendment under point 2. The government supports this amendment. This amendment means that only the text will be clearer because it has been found that certain issues are also on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 159. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 10 votes to 43. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. There were 47 votes against 11. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted, so the amendment to the amendment under point 3 has become irrelevant. We are therefore also deciding on the Government's amendment under order number 4. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 162 and the three amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the Committee, under 2 members of the Socialist Party's Group with a footnote, if this amendment is adopted, the Government's amendment under order number 3 will be irrelevant. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We decide on the amendment under two. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 16 votes against 41. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're still deciding on an amendment under three. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 163 and the four amendments to this Article: one is an amendment to the amendment to the Committee, two is an amendment to the amendment, and one is also a committee under three is an amendment to the amendment and four is an amendment to the Government. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude and we move on to a decision, first of all the amendments under one. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 53 votes against 4. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the amendment under four. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 164 and the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you very much. This article discusses the absence from work of the celebration, namely, the worker has the right to be absent from work on the holidays of the Republic of Slovenia, which are defined as part of the day off. The second paragraph then states that this right may be restricted if the work or production process is carried out continuously. This is perfectly logical, for some activities, some tasks and works are such that it is necessary to work on holidays. However, we believe that a worker who has, of course, been limited this right to rest on a holiday or work day is free to take advantage of the right to a day off on another day in this week. This means that that day does not fail him because he had to work, but that as a workday he could have a week off or in that week when, of course, his right to rest was reduced on a holiday day. And that's the essence of our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	I must say that labour law separates those days or time that is supposed to be for rest. We're talking about daily, weekly and annual rest. Week rest is what is, of course, intended for rest and what is then tolerated if the worker works on the day of normal rest. That is to say, if we have a week's rest defined on Sunday, then whoever works on Sunday has the right to rest in the next period. It's actually a holiday for something else. A holiday day is not intended for a basic rest, but usually for an event, some moments. If someone has to work on a holiday, he or she has the right to a refund or to an allowance for work on that holiday day. It is not normal, and I must say that we do not know such cases elsewhere, but we have not yet had a holiday to endure and to say, you who worked on a cultural holiday on 8 February will be celebrating a cultural holiday in 14 days or next week. I don't think it's actually meant to be, or it's not connected to the Institute of Holidays. That's why we're against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	We're not talking about a 14-day delay or a one-day one. We're talking about the week. That's what you say, another day a week, it's a week. Since this is the case for the celebration on February 8th, you should know that the celebration lined up within this day for 14 days. It's just a series of events and so on. Celebration is also given on a day when it is not strictly strict, especially when someone is working at that time. Therefore, we feel that it would be good for those people who have to do what is unappreciative, and even that supplement does not mean that someone has to work, for example, for May 1st or any other holiday. That is why we think it is appropriate for these workers to be provided another day in that week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 37. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 37.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 166 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 168 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 169 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 170 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 171 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group, with a footnote, if adopted, will be an amendment under number 2, of which Roman Jakič is proposing, irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	Thank you so much for saying that. In the New Slovenia Group, we believe that the matter of "disciplinary sanctions" needs to be more precisely defined, because the new law now makes it a decisive role in such a procedure on the employer's part. And given that there is no possibility to interfere with the work inspectorate and that the proceedings are carried out for an extremely long time, such arrangements as we propose are very necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Ma'am, Mr. Visjak first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	I would like to ask the proposer of the second amendment, Mr Jakič, what he meant or what he meant by being a disciplinary measure or that, as a disciplinary responsibility, the employer may also express to the employer the temporary performance of another job. The temporary performance of the second work is linked to a number of other conditions. Is the worker, of course, medically and so forth, qualified, educated, and not knowing what else? Disciplinary measures are, as a rule, such that they are somehow implemented, should be implemented fairly quickly. If someone orders someone to do another job, they will send him for medical examination, for safety training at work, of course, and for many other things. I don't know if that's what it means or what it means. And I really want a comment from the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	Thank you very much. As you've noticed, there's no proposal between us. It will be so difficult for him to answer your question. I give the floor to Mrs. Belopavlovich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	The Government opposes both amendments, under point 1 as set out in point 2. The reason for the opposition to the first amendment is that we are actually saying that it stems from the existing situation and from the legislation in force, when we had disciplinary measures for easier and for worse infringements and we were also talking about what is a lighter violation and what is a worse breach. During the worst violations, we also had the possibility of sanctioning the termination of the labour relationship. It's not like that anymore. If it's a violation of discipline, it's basically some minor violations of order, of discipline. And there is also a sanction on the relative goods. It's possible to give a warning. A second penalty, such as a fine or something, should be provided for in a collective agreement. The sanctions, as we have known so far, the end of the working relationship or the failure of the working relationship, are, of course, no longer, as proposed here. This is completely beyond the concept of this law. In view of this, we also think, because it is indeed easier to sanction, easier forms of infringements, which are also relatively quickly outdated, that it makes no sense and that it does not require as precise a procedure as we have known it so far, where we have, of course, identified worse infringements and for these worse infringements, it has also been possible to cancel a work relationship. With regard to this amendment under point 2, that someone as a disciplinary measure may be given an opportunity to move him to another job, to temporarily do another job, but of course this is somewhere at the border with some kind of forced work, which is why, of course, this amendment is unacceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 17 votes to 40. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 5 votes against 51. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 51.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group for the new 172.a, b and c articles. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u28	Once again, it would be worth noting that the Labour Relations Act should lay down the procedure for how this disciplinary commission and procedure are managed. Especially for employers with more than 50 employees. This is similar in other countries. It is clear that there is no understanding in this House. From the previous one, I will say these too many protections, now comes the second extreme that the employer will, on his own initiative, order this procedure and take it out, and in the same procedure, until it is concluded in court, no one can intervene, nor can the Inspectorate Institute. This means in the context of the worse side, if the worker is that weaker edge, of course, a bad thing. That's why this amendment is so much more necessary. I hope he gets a better understanding of his colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Just an explanation. There has been a written error, namely for the new 172.a and b, c articles, is not here. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u30	I will not repeat the whole story because I have already told it why it is actually a different approach and that the disciplinary procedure is somewhat milder or limited to easier infringements. We cannot agree, however, that there is nothing specific about the procedure in the law because we have the provisions of paragraphs 171 and 175, which essentially relate to the disciplinary procedure of the employer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for the new 172.a and b. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 175 and the three amendments. Under number 1, the amendment to the amendment of the Government of which the proposed committee is a committee under order number 2 is the amendment of the Government, with a note, if adopted, the amendment under point 3 is irrelevant. Under point 3, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group does not apply. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We move on to decision-making, first of all the amendment to the amendment, under order number one. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment to amendment number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, the amendment has been amended and the amendment under number 3 has thus become irrelevant. We are moving on to a discussion and a decision on Article 176 and two amendments. Under number 1, there is an amendment to the amendment of the government, whose proposer is the committee, under number 2 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment to amendment number one. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment to amendment number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 177 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number one is the amendment to the amendment, the committee, under number two is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment to the amendment, under number one. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 179 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 180 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 185 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 189 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. 56 votes against no one. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 197 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u32	We believe that measures should be provided in the law to provide special protection for older workers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u34	Certain protection for older workers is provided through law. But there's something I need to warn you about. In fact, there has also been a lot of debate on the labour force, that sometimes too much protection is also the opposite effect when it comes to employment of certain categories of workers. We can see the coil to some limit in the disabled. With a great deal of protection for disabled people, we have found that they are much less flexible in employment than if there were no such protection. When we want to do something well-intentioned, to protect a particular category, we can actually do some damage on the other side of this category.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 25 votes against 33. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against 2. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 200 and on the three amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of the committee, under 2 governments and under 3 also committees. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under 1 has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment under 2 has been adopted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 202 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Socialist Party to this Article. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u36	Thank you very much. The Social Democrats are proposing that claims from the employment relationship expire within five years, not within three years, as set out in the text of the law. However, it is a Slovenian specific for the long duration of proceedings, or of irrational and, of course, for long-term proceedings before the working and social courts. Just look at the case that someone is suing for illegal termination of employment and, of course, his lawsuit has been going on for more than three years, which is normal, of course, then he can't even sue for, I don't know, all the money claims because it's already out of date because the deadline is already over and he can't carry out this lawsuit. So I think this period of three years is absolutely too short, given the Slovenian specifics, and we suggest that, as so far as it has been, this is a five-year period and that it is also possible for workers to really get to what they are doing, despite, of course, some years later. In short, three years is absolutely too short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u38	I would like to point out that, as long as labour legislation regulated obsolete deadlines, these deadlines were three years. Then the law in force did not regulate them, and they were regulated by bonds or not specifically, but they were general statutes of limitations. This has been pointed out by all to the need to lay down those deadlines and to determine them, in fact, within the framework envisaged for three years. I have to say, this is where all the profession actually agreed. In doing so, I must make it clear that the concern expressed by Mr Vizjak is too great in this case. We have, I will just quote Article 365 of the Bond Code, which says that the statute of limitations is interrupted by the filing of an action and by any other creditor's action against the debtor before a court or other competent authority in order to establish, insure or recover the claim. This is said as soon as any procedure is put in, the limitation is interrupted. Even if a procedure persists for a long time, then this cannot be the reason for the weariness, but it has been disrupted. That's how this worry is really over. In fact, we believe that in three years the creditor must decide whether or not to enforce something. But when it starts to work, it doesn't start to get old anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u40	I also know cases from practice when, say, people don't hope to sue. Workers don't get a vacation regression. This is a typical category where no one else can help as a mere labour and social court by filing an action. However, worker, imagine how a worker should sue the employer while in a working relationship. Then he knows that his working relationship is over. Nevertheless, a cheerful employer denies him certain rights. The only thing that remains for the worker is that I only suppress the lawsuit when his employment is terminated. This also somehow marries him or that extent of this claim, if only for three years, not for five more. But I don't know, because I'm saying, I kind of believe the State Secretary's comment that the lawsuit, where only a conclusion is being sued, would be, say, an illegal termination of the employment relationship, that in fact also somehow cut off this limitation period for other claims, cash claims. If that's what he says it is, then this case is really off. However, I believe that it is only right for all these monetary claims to be a longer term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u42	I would only like to support this effort by my colleague Visian. The worker in these things is the weaker side, the weaker side, and I don't think there's going to be anything wrong, not the legal system, not the other way around if this deadline lasted five years. That is why I would also try to appeal to the majority in this National Assembly to listen, however, to this amendment, because at least to the most affected, it allows the most affected to apply once and for all and fight for what belongs to them in court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. The vote was 29 to 26. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 26.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the two amendments for the new 203.a. I am obliged to explain that the amendment under order number 1, the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members, is not properly tabled because the purpose pursued by the Group of Members is, of course, achieved by voting against the amendment, which is located under order number 2. It's an amendment to the government. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Well, the amendment to the new 203a article is some kind of crown to the legal institutionalisation of unions. I think that, in the working relationship or in the establishment of a relationship between an employer and an employee, it can only be in our law, but as I said, in the law: the employer must provide an instrument for collecting membership at the request of the union. He's a member of a voluntary organization as a union. This is one confirmation that this article or this solution in law is also a compromise to the unions that they have agreed to such a decision in the 159th article, which we have just discussed. However, the boards of trade unions will not have to deal with how to organise a system of collecting this voluntary membership. Why would we do this if we could impose on the employer as a partner in our arrangement, so that it will have to do so for us. This just confirms what we want to do, which in some organisations is an even greater "lick" union with employers, if I say a little bit at home. Thank you very much. Of course I'll have two hands against such a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u46	Yes, in principle, the technical implementation of the collection of membership is not disputed in so far as the worker agrees. Here I would have a question for the amendment's proposer under point 2. At the request of the trade union, it is said that the employer shall provide, in accordance with the act of the trade union of which the worker is a member, the technical implementation of the accounting and payment of the trade union membership of the worker. Is this by consent or without the employee’s consent? Because someone with an act is past the employee’s consent. [[...]] Now I wonder if there's some kind of agreement hidden here, or is there no individual worker's consent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you so much for saying that. It is precisely this amendment that shows that it is not possible to adopt the law only on the basis of an agreement between the social partners. This shows what kind of deal they are. And that also proves that this marriage is a "pele-mele," as I have already said, is not a system law. If we want to settle something, the working relationship, and we put an amendment to the contract work, it doesn't belong in there, and the collection of the union membership is in there. I'm sorry. You're kidding. I am just waiting for a mandatory membership fee for all workers in Slovenia to be introduced; milk and honey will then be drained. I won't support it. It's a joke.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I do not deny that this is an article worth discussing. However, I would like to point out that the criteria we have in this regard are not exactly the same in all cases. We have established a series of chambers in this national assembly, indeed, but have established, which we have prescribed for them, a compulsory membership. This was also the subject of a major debate, and there were different views, and the National Assembly has decided for the most part to establish them and to have a compulsory membership in them. Discussions are on the move, but not everyone is happy. We have tradesmen who are dissatisfied because the Chamber of Commerce has a mandatory membership; we have entrepreneurs who are not satisfied that the Chamber of Commerce has a compulsory membership; we also have farmers who are dissatisfied with the mandatory membership of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture, and so on, and mandatory membership and compulsory membership. In addition, in one of the most recent amendments to the tax procedure law without any discussion, without any discussion, we have laid down that the tax administration, because it is a levy, a duty to carry out collection, would say, this duty, this compulsory membership, and we have referred to the law on RTV which introduced this duty. There was no problem. I would just like to point out that our criteria are different and that it is not impossible to define themselves in the same way, without such a terrible sin as you point out, as it is written in this case. However, it is normal for a member to remain voluntary, it is normal for a member to know what the acts are when he joins, and under what conditions it is included, and it is possible to stop. Either we all have a common interest in any union, since it is not just one that deals mainly with substantive issues or with the collection of membership fees, which is another question. I think it would be useful for this amendment, as proposed by the government, to be supported as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u51	Thank you very much. The implementation of Mr Ptrč called for three replicas, first Mr Drobnic, then Mr Brenčič and then Mr Rokavec. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Potch, I'd like to replicate. When you were saying, "we confirmed this, we confirmed this mandatory membership." Now I don't know who you were thinking. [[...]] [[Advertise a member from the bench.]] Okay, then it's something else. Most of all, I'm not in favor of compulsory membership. I'm not bound by any party discipline. Maybe my colleagues are up for it. I'm not into these things for hygiene reasons. Then it will be mandatory in this country. And I don't want to repeat some stories that we've already heard about some system that we are. And you're kind of pushing for everyone to actually be compulsory, so we're joining. You know, that's not right. We're going somewhere else. I do not object to the fact that unions are set up to establish themselves in accordance with legislation and to collect membership fees. And it's the right thing to do, to have unions. I don't object. All I'm saying is that I'm opposed to such a diversion. That's it. And we will still meet in Slovenia with a problem of compulsory membership. It's getting more and more this way. Employers, craftsmen, mandatory membership. And now people are asking me about the terrain that they have, I don't know, a hectare and a half of ungrown land, or I don't know how much, mandatory membership for the agricultural forestry chamber. Please! May the chairman forgive me, but because it concerns the issue of compulsory membership. We're not going anywhere. This thing doesn't belong in there. This is a matter of negotiation and agreement at a different level, but not at the expense of the Labour Relations Act. Once again, I'm not against the union. I'm a union man, not one. Not for the monopolization of trade unions, not for the manipulation of trade unions, not for the exclusiveness of trade unions. We've overcharged the union with this law. We're not gonna make it. Now they're characterizing under this law, just like the public service. As a public service, we were institutionalized.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much. My friend Potts, I'm afraid you can't mix apples and pears in this case. You can't do that. The Chambers are established by law, with compulsory membership. And it is clearly prescribed to do so with a legal membership. Durs is a state institution and operates perfectly logically according to the principles of executive power. Trade unions are voluntary organisations that operate on an optional principle of action. And mixing it with the study room is totally impossible. It doesn't go together. You're looking for, of course, the proponents of this idea, the solutions. But that's not the answer. There's no argument. I'm afraid not. You won't find him anywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Last line, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. I think that in response to Mr Potsch's implementation, a number of things have already been said by my colleague Brenčič. The fact is that the Chambers are public bodies, as public powers are also conferred. The unions, however, are a voluntary association of workers' organisations, which mainly take care of state-of-the-art interest workers and that is voluntary. The fact is that this amendment reduces the independence of trade unions. I don't know if anyone in this room is aware of this, but we're reducing union independence. And their autonomy. The question is whether trade unions are aware of these risks when establishing this provision and negotiating it. At some point, it may be good that this is within the framework of the law, but it is likely that in the long run, it will harm trade unions rather than benefit them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u58	The first time I said we had a decision. I mean, I'm always thinking about the National Assembly when I say so. There were many of us in the decision-making process, many of us did not vote. But we've decided, the National Assembly has decided. As far as the variety of chambers and unions is concerned: yes, of course. Only here are things differently regulated by the higher-a-vis tax service law, because mandatory membership of the chambers through taxation is collected. But this is not about, I would say, no tax collection, but that the right that you have on the basis of a voluntary membership in which you join or not, then you ask, you also want through the law to make the payment technically possible. From this, to carry out a terrible problem of independence, whether it will be a responsibility or not, that we are not for monopolization, these are also fat transfers. We would like to weaken the position at this point. That's also a possible position. I'm not saying it isn't. Let's just be honest. However, the situation is certainly facilitated if, on the basis of voluntary membership, such as that of a union, and on the basis of the acts and on the basis of the membership which it has, which is high or low, the technical implementation of the collection of this membership is made possible. However, we all recognize and know that this technical exercise, of course, also has material ramifications. We know that. Of course he does. Not to hide, but why not allow it if he voluntarily joined, then under membership conditions he would also pay membership fees. Or the leadership of the union, at any level, will have to deal primarily with the fact that, otherwise agreed upon when joining, membership fees will be collected.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Did you want a replica, Mr. Skull? Otherwise, Mr Pache, in front of you, spoke to the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u60	What I'm about to say can go into the concept of replica. Of course, I do not agree with this argument that it is just a technical business, because it is also some deep content. And in these things, it feels like time is running back, with all these solutions, and we're getting everything that's happened before. I'll tell you my union adventure. Even when I went to work alone for the first time, the union membership was voluntary, and the solution was exactly the same as now that employers were giving out union membership. And when I got my first copy of that salary, I saw that I was a member of the union. Then I went to the accountant, and I just said that no one took me into the union and that I had no obligation to the union from this address. At that time, of course, it took about six months to prove that I am not a member of the union and let them leave me alone and not take away my membership. For the next six months, I had to go secretly to the cafeteria because union chiefs said that if I wasn't a union member, I wouldn't eat in their cafeteria, regardless of the fact that it was a right that came from a working relationship. And it seems to me that with these practical solutions, there can be a lot of people with ignorant people who will automatically join the union, who will sign all those papers that, when they're hard to wait for work, they'll sign, and they'll just run. But structurally, the problem is somewhere else that the employer is essentially doing some work for the union. He's picking up a membership fee. So I think it makes more sense for the union to deal with the employer every time, sign a contract with him, and pay him this service. And from this view, by law, like now this solution, we are actually making an additional contribution to the union by imposing on the company that it pays, and I am opposed to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič also has a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I'm replicating my buddy Potsch. I didn't feel like we were having an affair. Someone may be wrong, but Mr Potts, this article does not speak of a request or a wish, this article speaks, on request, nothing else. That's an essential other meaning, but you know it. Whether someone in the union voluntarily wants to talk or agree with some employer's office to do so. It's their internal affairs. It can't be part of the law. And we can't tell the law that he's demanding a union from his employer. This means that it is perfectly clear who will be the yellow representative of the labour representation of the employer, which the union can refer to when we wish to give some authority to the world of workers where there is no union. This is clear evidence of who this yellow representative of the job is going to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u63	Thank you very much. It's a debate. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u64	All respectable present. At the time of the opening explanation of the opinion of the Slovenian National Party on the said matter, the instrument or institute of payment of membership was, in any case understood, subject to criticism of the bill or certain government amendments. This national assembly, together with the exception of Slovenia's national party, has become a practice of compulsory membership, both in the field of various assemblies, which unite or which we tell them to unite, and the question is, if this is their wish, compulsory membership, as in the field of local tourism organisations, where it has been shown what compulsory membership is and how those whom we consider to be good view; no, they are convinced that this is not good. We believe in the Slovenian national party that as few things as possible must be legally binding and that wherever there is a desire for compulsory membership or similar things, this must be left to those who join, and not to us who write laws. Around this law, and even if we accept the story, otherwise a very fun story by Mr Školč, and if we agree that this article or amendment can be viewed on one hand through the technical implementation of integration, but even if we look through the way or technique of collecting, accounting and similar things, it is reasonable to ask whether this does not mean the termination of the union's independence, at least part of the union's function. And, as you know, he's sorry about our company and, well, I think in society at all, it starts and ends with money. Therefore, if they already have it, this task must be left to the unions themselves. On the other hand, if we are to see that this amendment is broader, that this amendment is, say, in the same direction as an instrument of membership, it must also be left behind. It can't and can't be marital matter. In the Slovenian national party, we will oppose such attempts by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to eradicate autonomy on one side of the union and, on the other hand, to obtain union opinions. We will therefore oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment for the new 203.a., the content of which is placed under order number 2 and of which the government is the proposer. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 23 votes against 36. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 204 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 44 votes to 9. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 206 and the amendment to this Article, this is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 207 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 210 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. The amendment government doesn't support it. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 25 votes against 26. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 6. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee for a new 211.a. Anybody want to talk? Just a minute. By 211th Article, the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party also tabled an amendment to the amendment. So, in the review, we have an amendment for a new 211.a. article whose proposer is the committee. On the table with date 31.1. you also have an amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia. I'm opening a debate on both of them. Mr. Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Article 211a speaks of student work. Surely this is an important segment in the field of student social security and I believe it is necessary to protect it precisely because of its specificity. The new Labour Relations Act did not provide for the establishment of the Student Labour Institute. However, I believe that this regulation of this area is essential for the social security of students and students in the Republic of Slovenia, as it represents the income of this population to the greatest extent. Undoubtedly, the practice so far has shown a positive balance of student work from several perspectives. From the point of view of students, employers, as well as from a wider society. Finally, student work provides an autonomous source of funding for student organisations, which is a fundamental condition for an independent work of such organisations. With this, students form their own obstudio activities and somehow operate in a wider society, while at the same time they do not burden the state budget. These are all the reasons why I believe that this amendment should be supported. However, since the Minister has warned us that the amendment that we supported on the Committee gives exclusive rights to student services for the implementation and intervention of student work, we have also tried to remedy this flaw and proposed this amendment to the amendment, for article 211.a. And I hope that such a formulation is now acceptable to the government as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u68	From the point of view of the systematic nature of this law, I speak. In fact, the field of labour intervention regulation is regulated by another law, employment and unemployment insurance. Now, if this is such a topical matter that we have to bind this matter in the labour law, then, I don't know, it's probably going to be a bigger "pete-mele". Otherwise, as far as this is concerned, the amendment of the committee is more appropriate, in our opinion, because it provides for greater order. The question is, what would happen to this student work, to mediation? The opposite effect can be achieved from what the youth party is actually trying to achieve is that, above all and only students and students come to work through this institution, but not from another, as indicated by the inspections, who does everything through this institute of work of students and students, and that it is sometimes unfair competition, not young people, students and students, but unemployed or even employees. So, think about it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Black is possible in what Mr Drobnič has just said, also to find some argument against, especially when it comes to, say, systematic, but I think that the amendment that we have just received on the table, a little earlier, should be supported, because we are actually expressing our own, I would say that we are willing to help that part of the young population that is forced into work because it does not have money. And I think that this is a key issue that we need to support, even if that's why he's suffering from some kind of systematicity. And, of course, when it was said earlier, when Mr Drobnic said that the previous amendment would be better, I would, however, specifically point out that this is a direct referral through authorized organisations; it is said that this is not anyone, the procedure for this is arranged, and I think that this also provides a sufficient legal basis for students and students to actually work through these organisations. So I would really support this amendment, and I hope that you will also act this way with your colleagues and help those who, unfortunately, have to work, so that you can study so that you can get the money and afford to study for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u72	My colleague Dr. Brace called me to do this a little bit, especially because of the next one. Look, I remember, our Jakič was a very bad advocate of this work and the existence of student services, but the fact is that in many cases this thing has been born and that it will have to be done, I will say, also systematically with the matter, because there are anomalies. That's a fact. I think we'd close our eyes to some truth completely unnecessary. Actually, I'm not talking now about those who, as Dr. Brac says, are forced to work to survive, but we're talking about those who are rich on this account. I will, of course, support this amendment, but of course, with the expectation that the Ministry will deal with this problem because it is not so one-layered. And second of all, as far as the work itself is concerned at the time of school or study, I don't think it's that sad if it's working at that time. I also worked alone, in completely different times, practically every holiday. It is also around the world that either they take credit, and then they pay it back through work, or they work across the street, and in this way they provide themselves with bread. A number of very eminent Slovenians could count on me to study with and have actually studied with you in this way. By asking the proposer, after all, it is a second reading, of course, it is necessary to support the amendment to the amendment and then the joint amendment, but please the proposer that this topic, which cannot be covered by this labour law, should, of course, be given some attention together with the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u74	If you don't mind, I'd like to continue where Mr. Lavrinc has finished. I agree that there is a need to pay particular attention to this issue. However, I must express all the concerns that this issue does not actually fall within the Labour Relations Act. There is one fundamental issue that arises to us, which is that we do not now define that contract of work as we have sometimes defined in the law in force. And so we are no longer talking about some temporary or occasional work being done under a contract of work governed by the Labour Relations Act. Here the question arises whether these students are actually working in a position that is systematic and where a contract of employment should be concluded. This is the first question arising from this Article or from this definition. And I have to say that I don't know the objection, whether it's or it's not, or whether it's those contracts that students can make anyway, civil contracts where there's no objection. By saying this: what concerns the intervention of the student work is the subject of the Employment and Insurance Act in case of unemployment. In fact, these things need to be fixed and resolved, corrected and resolved definitively within the framework of that law and the amendments to this employment law that are being prepared by the Ministry. Secondly, it must also be said that what is in the amendment in the third paragraph is what we think is the subject of labour law, which is the protection that in this case those provisions on working time, rest, compensation and so on should be applied. We have this covered, in fact, in paragraph 210 of paragraph 7 and that we have what the drafters of the amendment say in paragraph 4 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. Therefore, students should be protected in such a work if there is an accident at work or a occupational illness. We have in the pension law, the law on pension and disability insurance, special insurance cases covering exactly this, and students or students in such a part have to be insured for this risk of accident at work, injury, occupational illness. Let me finish this one more time. I think that the third and fourth paragraphs are covered by the legislation in force or by a proposal of that, whereas the first paragraph, in fact, as regards travel, intervention, mode, do not belong to this set. This, of course, does not close the debate, not here or at the Ministry, to give special attention to student work issues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, then Mr. Auschwitz. Here you go, Mr. Brenčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I fully understand the desire of the applicants for a new 211.a., but it is only true that this matter must be resolved and sought in one piece in the Employment and Insurance Act. However, one part of it already does quite well in Article 210. When we met on the Committee with the need for additional arguments to be followed by the incorporation of this area into the law, we therefore supported Article 210. Because we felt that the third-reading candidate might find additional solutions to resolve the problem. It is only a pity that the amendment to Article 210 has not in fact been accepted and remains closed. Otherwise, this material could in particular be added to Article 210. But it is, well, with the amendment to the amendment, this amendment is becoming a little more acceptable, so we have to make a decision. However, I think that this matter needs to be resolved in Article 210, if it is not sufficiently resolved, and in the Employment and Insurance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u78	Thank you very much. I have listened carefully to everyone you have discussed, including the Secretary of State, and I also expected Mr Brenčič to continue what I intend to say or defend right now. Mr Brenčič said that we did not vote on the amendment to Article 110, so we did not open it. And the Secretary of State has found that some of this content is already covered in this law or in others, but that some things remain an open question that needs to be clarified. Not only for procedural reasons, but also for substantive reasons. I therefore propose that we support the amendment and, of course, until the third reading, this matter is examined and designed in a manner consistent with this and other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the amendment to the amendment, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 54 votes against 3. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We are now going back to the review, and we are also deciding on the amendment of the Committee for the new 211.a. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 219 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 220 and the amendment to the amendment, under number 1 of which the proposer is the committee; also under order number 2 is the amendment to the amendment of the government of which the committee is proposing; and under number 3 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment to the amendment, under number one. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment, under number one, has been accepted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment, under number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment to the amendment, number two, has been accepted. We're still deciding on the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 221 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 222 and the two amendments to this Article. Under number 1, the amendment of the Committee, with a footnote, if adopted, shall be without prejudice to the amendment referred to in point 2. The proposed amendment under order number 2 is the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. On the table you also have an amendment to the amendment under order number 2. I'm putting both amendments to the debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. From the outset, when I represented the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, I said and pointed out that, on the one hand, there is a law on labour relations, which sets out the scope, level and, of course, also procedures that deal with workers' rights. On the other hand, the law should also talk about a more effective way of ensuring these rights. The amendment to Article 222, both the Committee and the Social Democratic Party, is aimed at preventing, in some cases, arbitrary conduct and preventing irreparable harm in order to prevent an inspection of the work of the action and, of course, to suspend the enforcement of this document, which inadvertently interferes with the rights of the worker, i.e. to retain the decision of the court or arbitration. Not until the final decision, but until this provisional order or to this preliminary procedure. We believe that this is an effective way, of course, to raise up or have a new mandate to inspect the work. Otherwise, it is already being implemented, but it is a much clearer transparent provision so that the inspectorate can also intervene and retain the employer in the event of obvious infringements. It may be possible to illustrate this provision in the case, since if, because of the employer’s will and manifest violation of the rights of workers, a worker has been denied a working relationship, of course, the inspector may hold this enforcement pending an appropriate arbitral or judicial decision. This would, of course, prevent irreparable damage, as if the employer had cancelled social insurance and then all other matters, this would be irreparable for workers. And we believe that this mandate will also achieve significantly better preventive action. For if the employer knows that the inspector has teeth or the possibility of doing so, he will, of course, consider whether he will benefit from such inadmissible waivers or interference with the rights of the worker, and of course that will be less and the infringement will be less. We therefore propose that either the Committee's amendment or the Social Democratic Party's amendment be supported and that they seek the same objective, which is the aim of increasing the powers of the labour inspector in cases of manifest violation of the worker's rights by the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u82	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. On the part of the Secretariat, in particular with regard to the amendment of the Committee, since the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group of Members is being corrected, we would like to point out that it is necessary to take into account that the Act on Labour Relations on the conclusion, enforcement and termination of the employment contract provides for judicial competence. Such a wide extension of the inspection powers also to provisions relating to enforcement and termination of the work contract, as provided for in the first paragraph of the amendment of the Committee in particular, could in fact raise the issue of jurisdiction. From this point of view, we point out that, in our opinion, the regulation as envisaged in this part is more appropriate. However, as regards the specific regulation of the period prior to the initiation of the procedures for the protection of rights for failure to work, in fact, we believe that it is still necessary to look very closely at the combination of procedures, namely, the administrative procedure, as some kind of additional protection in the pre-trial or judicial proceedings, and the possibility of combining these proceedings. I think that this is a rather minute or precise professional question, and I think that there would still be time in the third reading, because we are also predicting certain reservations at this point, or we would also be giving further attention to this issue by the secretariat in the third reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u84	So, if I understand correctly, we have two amendments before us that were actually identical in the first form, the amendment of the committee and the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. Like the first ones on paper, they're the same. If I understand correctly, it means a correction of this, Mr Visjak, that the second paragraph does not change, but that a new third paragraph is added to Article 222. And given what has just been said, in terms of the system of jurisdiction, the judicial powers and the powers of the executive authority, to which inspections also belong, I must say that we support such an amendment, to supplement or add a new third paragraph, that is, we support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. While the amendment of the committee, which was originally the same, is too wide and we think it can actually interfere with the area of jurisdiction. So that the government would determine for these revised amendments of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you so much for your support. I would just like to say that it seems very appropriate for me to support the amendment, even from this point of view, that the article is open and thus an open opportunity to drink or perhaps remove some formal dilemmas regarding the division of powers between the judicial and administrative branches. However, if both were to fall, then this is closed and the opportunity to take a step forward in the faster and more effective provision of workers' rights is still delayed. That is why, of course, I am pleased with the Government's support, and I hope that Members will also support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much. In any event, the Committee was also at the point of opening the article from the source of the opinion of the secretariat. However, I would like to ask the proposer, says Mrs State Secretary, because the amendment of the Committee also introduces a new third paragraph, in which there is now a difference between one and the other amendments, just to get to know each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u90	In fact, the Committee supported two paragraphs. Amendment of the second paragraph, new second paragraph and new third paragraph. The second paragraph is one which, in our view, is problematic for the reasons stated by the representative of the legislation. While the third one is who we think is actually giving a little more scope for better inspection.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First of all, the amendment under order number 1, which is the amendment of the committee, with a footnote as far as it is accepted, is irrelevant under point 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. The vote was 5 to 52. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We are also deciding on the revised amendment of the SDS Group under order number 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 224 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on 225th Article and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. This amendment does not stand exactly as it should. That's why we accepted the amendment. This number, which is the first, is not 5 because it's right, they just took me down. [[...]] It's okay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u93	Thank you very much. We decide about Mr. Visac, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u94	I'd have a question. For the matter may also raise doubts for me. Is the number in the basic text 50,000 meant, or is it just a mistake that one zero went there before the comma? That's what I'm interested in, and I'd like an answer from the government, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u96	Zero fell out, and that was the problem. It's a clean line.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u97	It's a tough line. So we have to decide on the amendment. Amendment. I conclude the debate, we decide on the amendment of the committee. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 57 votes against no one. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 226 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 227 and the Government's amendment to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 45 votes against 7. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 228 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 230 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting on the amendment. There are 57 Members and Members present. 48 votes against 3. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government for a new Article 231a. Under 1 is an amendment to the Committee's amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 59 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on the government's amendment. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus a new article. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on a new 231.b Article, whose proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Just a minute. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new article have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment for a new 231.c. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the government's amendment for a new 235.a. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on 237th Article and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! There are 56 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are still going to discuss the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? Because no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles. Let's vote! There are 55 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. I also put to the debate the following proposal for a decision: "The proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." Does anyone wish to discuss the proposal for a decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 59 votes against no one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Under-Secretarys and the representatives of the Secretariat very much for participating in this extensive law. And we're moving on to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSAL OF AMENDMENTS TO THE TRANSPORT SAFETY LAW, REDUCTION OF THE PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first-signed Zmaža Jelinčič. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mr. Sasha Patch, please. Mr. Peca, can you come in front of the payphone? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u98	If you'll excuse me, Madam President, I'll ask for so much time to get things settled or calmed down in our Chamber, and then I'll start with the presentation. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party, we tabled a proposal for a law amending the Road Traffic Safety Act. It is essentially about the changes in the law that have somehow been made in substance by the two applicants already before us, namely Mr Auschwitz and Mr Kangler, but both the law has encountered negative support or withdrawal from the procedure. The proposal for changes that we are making following a reduced procedure, precisely because of the procedure and, in our opinion, less difficult changes that we are proposing, we are proposing two major changes; the first, so-called divided area of sanctioning, and the second, the establishment of a positive law system. Under the first issue, which is contained in a modest law, i.e. a divided area of sanctioning, we propose in the Slovenian National Party that the degree of influence of alcohol on drivers and its sanctions, i.e. the withdrawal of a driving licence, should be separated from the categories for carrying out the knowledge test. In our view, this is a systemic change, a change reflected in the smaller area of customers of this law, i.e. those who have several categories of driving licence and who are essentially dependent on these categories; it is mainly on professional drivers who face this issue in their lives. And the second minor change proposed in the law is the establishment of a system of positive law, where we are essentially replacing the "winter" with "winter conditions". Here only allow me to quote a part of the attached opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters: "Winter situations by nature are quite consistent with the winter period, but they may also occur outside this period." In our opinion in this case, therefore, with a new "winter situation" dictatorship, we are making the law a much more life-form, namely that the State or its competent authority can decide beyond the winter period on this regime, which, in our opinion, will have the consequence mainly of road safety. I propose that the proposed amendment in the form of the law of the parliamentary group represented in this national assembly be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As a working parent, the Committee considered this at its 14th meeting on 7 December, which means last year, because we expected this item to be included in the December session, but its final consideration did not take place, so we will try to do so today. First of all, I must say that the representative of the secretariat warned that the content of Article 2 and Article 3 of the proposed law meant a repetition of the previously rejected law and therefore, of course, did not specifically justify their position. The government representative said that the bill did not support, for the same reasons as it did not support the previous law, the law of the other applicants. Nor do they support the solution proposed by the applicants in Article 1 of this Law, this is about changing the term "winter" or "winter time". A representative of the Auto-Moto of the Association of Slovenia also participated in the discussion, who agreed with the drafter of the law on this different dictatorship. A representative of the Road Traffic Prevention and Education Council also participated, who explained briefly after this technical floor how the current law is better than the proposed amendments. In the debate, the members of the committee generally felt that they considered the previous law to be the case; therefore, in the current situation, it is not possible to stimulate drivers to drive faultlessly, alcohol is still too often a passenger in our means of transport. Well, and it was also particularly stressed that security is the one for which we adopted this law; and security in winter conditions can only be guaranteed as it is now arranged, because if we leave it, as the proponents wanted, to each individual to assess when winter conditions have arisen, or if we impose it, say, to the ministry, someone would, I will say, have gone on the road when the sun shines and went into winter conditions, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u101	Please, honourable Members for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u102	It's okay, because I'm talking about a magnetogram, not a problem. [[...]] It was in a way - so the drivers would be stimulated to drive like this. That is why we have assessed that the law is not appropriate, and the Committee is proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law amending the Road Safety Act should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u103	Thank you. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? Excuse me, representative. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Dr. Bojan Bulgarian, Secretary of State of the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u104	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, very briefly. What's really important about what Mr Lavrinc said is, I don't have to add. Only with regard to the amendment relating to Articles 117 and 119 of the ZVCP, i.e. with regard to guilt, would I add one more thing that you know for certain that the offence law of Article 31 - allows a judge to impose a minor penalty on such a perpetrator in such cases, which means that the withdrawal of a driving licence is not a necessary penalty. In short, from case to case, this may be judged differently. Which means it's not just some absolute drastic measure that would have hit every driver. As for other arguments, I wouldn't really add anything. In the tyres themselves, however, we estimate that the arrangement, clearly not the best, is not ideal, but without an adequate systematic analysis, studies, it would be absolutely too risky to change this regime according to the degree of safety and culture - transport culture in Slovenia - to leave to drivers or to unspecified procedures to judge from day to case when and when to use such tyres. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u105	Thank you. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want to talk? [[None.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which reads: "The proposal for a law amending the road safety law, the reduced procedure, is not adopted." Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] Passing vote. We're voting, please. 56 Members and Members present. For 44, against 9. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The decision was adopted. The legislative procedure is closed on this bill. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th C.E.L.D., which is a defensive proposal for a feed law, a quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I welcome the secretary of state with my coworkers. Would you please have a word? Here you go. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Welcomed very much on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mr France Booth, who will join us later because the government's meeting is still under way. I would like to give you a brief presentation of the feed law, which is actually one of the European laws and, on the other hand, a very professional law governing the whole area of feed, which has not yet been regulated in the Republic of Slovenia. The law regulates or summarises those directives which speak in the European Union about the production of feed, the transport of feed, the additives which feed may contain. Then they talk about the conditions for registration of the feed facility, about the conditions of transport, as I said before, and - of course - ultimately also represents control of the feed. The law also complements in some parts the veterinary law, which in this case, of course, remains in force, but in certain parts is its upgrade. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is the central responsible body as well as the coordinating body for feeding in the country; this will also provide for contacts with the European Union and for reporting to the European Union. As you yourself have observed, the feeding law is a considerable amount of time under consideration and is accompanied by many amendments. I would like to say that we have long coordinated the marriage, because this is the first law in the National Assembly that governs, as I said, the whole area. We wanted to write, on the one hand, a law for those who will implement it in life, these are feed producers, and also for those who will use it, so to speak, for animal breeders. We tried to make maximum use of each other’s wishes, and so many amendments were born. I must also say that unfortunately part of the profession became involved in the drafting of the law quite late, despite the fact that it had the possibility and that the law had been published for some time in the Rapporteur, but we also tried to take their wishes into account. So now I think that with the amendments that have been tabled, the law is in line with everyone, and I think that it is also ripe for adoption. I would like to stress another aspect which the Ministry of Agriculture and, in particular, the veterinary part wishes to highlight. This law is part of a strategy called ‘food safety’ of a strategy or safe food that includes the whole chain: from field or barn on the one hand to plate on the other, and to complete this chain with complete control, this law and the intended veterinary control in it must also be kept. I therefore hope that you will accept these amendments or the text of the law with understanding. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u107	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Nutrition as the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. I would like to make a brief report on the feed law that has been dealt with by our committee. The draft law was drafted by the Government, as has already been said, and put it into a rapid procedure. The law must be adopted in connection with the process of adapting our legislation. It is a law that will be comparable to the regulation of the safe food system. The law lays down health and quality requirements, provides for the control, regulation and production of feed in registered establishments, lays down additives which may be used in feed, also lays down procedures for the authorisation of additives, regulates the use of feed containing genetically modified organisms. The Committee on Agriculture, which is ahead of us, has dedicated a number of meetings and three further meetings, as well as some coordination between stakeholders. Representatives of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, the Agricultural Institute and the Association of Agrofood at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the meetings of the Committee. We also discussed the comments sent by interested companies. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has drawn up a written opinion with some specific comments to each article. On the basis of comments from the secretariat, interested institutions and companies, as well as the discussions of the members and members of the Committee, the Government has prepared amendments to the law. Colleagues and colleagues. We have spent a great deal of time on the Committee with amendments to Article 9 of the Act, which provides that feed which is a product of industrial processing containing products of animal origin or feed, additives and premixtures must be accompanied by a health certificate on the market. We called him a veterinary certificate. Government representatives have explained to us why such a health certificate is needed. This is a specific feed containing animal proteins. This is based on a decision of the Commission of the European Union from 29 December 2000. Members and members of the Board did not convince the Government's arguments by overwhelmingly defining themselves until the amendment that the article should simply be deleted. The amendments of the Government and the other amendments tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure have been considered by the Committee and adopted by a large majority. He also accepted some of his amendments. At the end of the hearing, we adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law should be adopted in a rapid manner, with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Colleagues and colleagues, we also have before us a comprehensive report of the Committee and a review of the amendments tabled, so that all the conditions for quality decision-making on the proposed law are met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you, Mr Kramberger. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The first is announced by Franc Sušnik, who will present the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u110	A respected choir! In the Socialist Party's Group, we support the reasons for the adoption of the law and the objectives and the principles followed by the legislative proposal. We are also convinced that it would be possible to find cheaper and more rational marriage solutions that would put less burden on already overburdened Slovenian farmers and taxpayers. We point to the vague and inadmissible separation or vaguely defined relationship between agricultural crops and feed, and in this regard we also fully support the deletion of Article 9 of the proposed law. We have serious concerns in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group and we support all comments on how the feed law is dealt with in a rapid manner. Such practice, which is the treatment of agricultural legislation by rapid procedure, can be shown and has already proved to be very harmful for the development of Slovenian agriculture. This is also further justified by the prescribed deadline for the issue of sub-legislative rules, which the Minister is not required to issue until two years after the entry into force of the law. Once again, we express and justify our view that there is no valid and justified reason for the proposed rapid procedure. However, the adoption of the Feed Law lacks accurate and effective answers to questions related to the financial consequences of the implementation of this Act. How much will it cost taxpayers to reorganise within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, since you have already stated in the proposal of the law that costs will not increase and that you will immediately find only a partial existence of these services within the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food? All the costs of registration in the register and the costs of obtaining licences, the costs of obtaining decisions and licences related to the feed law, the costs of examining feed, all of this will be broken at the end of the farm to the farmer, who will thus increase the costs of feeding and feeding difficult or not at all at the price of crops. Sooner or later the latter will apply. The Feed Law will trigger a series of regulations which will have to be monitored and monitored by an appropriate number of inspectors, as mentioned in the fourth chapter of the Financial Introduction and other consequences. On the basis of this, a very reasonable question is raised as to what the relevant number of inspectors mean. This is 100, 150 or 200 new jobs, and what burden is this for taxpayers and indirectly and especially for our farmers? How much and what resources will it take to operate an extremely numerous feeding world? To establish a number of registers, records and databases and the functioning of the information system involved? How much and what resources will it take to produce the monitoring, analysis and other measures envisaged by the law? We are also wondering how many additional people will be employed in the various offices of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, how many additional officials will be joined by such a large and huge agricultural bureaucracy, which we so efficiently supply with ever-increasing new staff, by adopting the agricultural legislation that our Parliament adopts in the quick procedure, often unthinkable, without the possibility of affecting the general public in the course of the legislative process. At least - and this is the greatest sadness - it takes into account a Slovenian farmer who ultimately pays or suffers all the consequences of the legislation adopted. Not all the financial consequences of the enforcement of the Law on Feed are certain to be the same. Unfortunately, the reality of the introduction of legislation in this area is all too harsh and is still a justification for these concerns. The new and ever-new veterinary regulations and other exacerbation of farming conditions have brought the agricultural situation to the brink of long-term and acceptable. I cite only a few obvious and in the sky-sweeping injustices that have occurred and which are blaming their backs and testing their patience and the proverbial humility of our farmer. First of all, I should state a regulation whereby farmers milking cows are required to carry out health checks every six months. Such a review, by the way, costs 22,000 tolars and is still in force despite the written assurance I received in response to my parliamentary initiative, although this provision is highly discriminatory and unfair compared to neighbouring European countries where these checks are carried out by dairy farmers for three years. Not to mention the overpriced price of beef, which for at least 60 and more tolars is lagging behind production costs in the fact that subsidies for young cattle in question are far behind similar subsidies in the European Union. The recent invitation to tender for European Union agricultural grants is also extremely unfair and exclusionary. It is more than clear at this point that this call will not achieve its purpose, as the response to the harsh and non-lifely criteria is minimal. I do not think it is necessary to stress that this is a call for Sapart funds, all five measures [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u111	Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u112	19 applications for invitation to tender [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u113	One moment, please. [[...]] I'd suggest a little restriction on the feed law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u114	Only 19 applications for Sapart's assets should be a clear signal that something is very wrong here. By implementing the Veterinary Act and by banning the implementation of inseminations as a basic zootechnical measure to persons without veterinary education, contrary to the practice in Europe, which also allows breeders, we have burdened farmers annually for more than a billion tolars. If things were to take place normally, such a decision or the success of a veterinary character should not have occurred, nor should it be necessary to provide a means to cover such increased costs of breeding. Unfortunately, or to the detriment of a Slovenian farmer, this did not happen. Do we ever wonder why in our space there is no way to revive complementary activities in agriculture? All of us who have been informed or are familiar with the government regulations governing this area have been able to make sure that the main cause of the extensive and overly strict health-veterinary rules, whose consistent enforcement means the burial of everything that we have already achieved in the field of enforcement in complementary activities, as well as the urgent need for enlargement and development. It is no coincidence that, due to various complications, the feed law has been dealt with at six meetings of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food and that this procedure has lasted more than half a year. This is particularly significant or even significant for the course and content of the debate - and this is the rulefulness of the debates, which at all meetings of the Committee, when European agricultural legislation is being addressed - that these and these debates deal exclusively with the interests of services operating within the Ministry of Agriculture and various agricultural institutions. To everyone and to everyone, the main interest in the adoption of European agricultural legislation is how you are in the current law - and this is also indisputably true for the feed law - to acquire as much competence as possible and, consequently, to obtain money for own validation, for own enlargement, for new employment and consequently for a larger portion of the agricultural budget. That's all this is about. Unfortunately, this is at the expense of the Slovenian farmer, the livestock farmer, the milker and is reflected in the low buying-in prices of meat and milk, as well as the increasingly poor farming conditions and the increasingly difficult agricultural situation. In this ruthless and uncompromising battle, which we witness and directly support, few ever listen to the Agricultural - Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, even less hears and feels the impact of Slovenian trade unions. Completely without influence and powerless are Slovenians, our farmers, whose survival and existence should be in the national interest of our country if we want to preserve the settlement of the countryside and the appearance of the cultural landscape. That's why we're calling: let's stop this train while it's still time. Let's stop this wagon, which is unstoppable, because the negative consequences of such irresponsible and flat-rate creation of agricultural policy will not be remediable. Let's stop the vets who have gained too much and too much power in this game. The prices of veterinary services are in the form of a solid loop, stuck to our farmer's door, and it's only a matter of time before he runs out of air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you. On behalf of the Nova Slovenija Group, he will present the opinions of Alojz Sok. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members. So, some things have already been said by my predecessor on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. So, although it's cold and we won't want anything in the short term, it's only right to adopt this law, although I have to say here again that in New Slovenia we objected to adopting this law quickly; but then our proposal, however, did not get the majority needed in this House. However, the feed law, as it has been introduced, is an eloquent example of how laws do not enter into the procedure. For I must say, on behalf of the opposition, that it is a law in which this area - the real area of transport, production, then feeding, then production of additives, registration of establishments where feed is produced and the area of control over it - is regulated in a European comparable way. However, I wonder what this European law actually is, if the government puts it into procedure once, then replaces it with a new law, then replaces this new law with a third proposal, and then, on its own proposal, which has thirty-three articles, introduces the 55 amendments you have before you today - that is, what is the European law - and then we make amendments to this law, even so far as it is proposed to delete one of the essential articles of this law and then I get on the table again, I would say, editorial corrections in the form of amendments by Ambassador Rokavac. So, this is an example of how laws are not actually done and because we do them in this way, then it appears that the law cannot be implemented; then these laws are found before the Constitutional Court, so that Parliament can quickly re-enter them and correct them. If the law were then to be dealt with on a regular basis, they could also be at third reading today. However, the law is still in a fast process, and I already know that it will not be what this law should be. On behalf of our New Slovenia Group, I would like to say that we resent this law; this has already been quite a point. First of all, the law introduces excessive administration. Under this law, the Minister will have to issue a series of sub-legislative acts and because the basic framework, the substantive framework of the law itself, is not regulated, is in fact left to the Minister to regulate this area by means of sub-legislative acts according to his own personal judgement. This is the way I object - on behalf of our parliamentary group - and I will also say the same in the livestock law. In fact, if we do this way, then I would estimate that these laws are empty, that they do not provide a basic framework of legislation, but leave the matter alone, I would say, some wills, past parliament, and thus Parliament does not do its work. I don't know if you're listening to me when I say this, but, as my colleague Lavrinc said, I'm talking about a magnetogram. This law therefore introduces an additional administration, which will amount to a cost. Of course, this will be a cost for producers, a cost for our farmers, so it is not possible for us to settle matters in our agriculture as regulated in Western Europe, because our agriculture is not comparable to agriculture in the European Union. If the average farm in the European Union is 18.4 hectares, this is 5.4 hectares. Thus, we are sub-dimensionated as regards the size of farms, and we cannot be over-sealed in the field of legislation, as is the case with our legislation in this area. Soon we will have more agricultural rules than we have farmers in Slovenia. And that's the sad story of this arrangement. When I was recently with the Committee on Agriculture in Brussels, representatives of the Committee on Veterinary and Phytosanitary Regulations in Slovenia said to us, "You have to do so, so, so." However, when we asked them what they thought about the principle of subsidiarity and what they thought about Europe of equal nations, they changed their tone and said, "We do not require you to do so and in such a way, but you must tell who is responsible in your country." Well, this law introduces an additional and new feed inspection based on the model of the European Union. I am strongly protesting this and I have also tabled an amendment on this subject, because today this area is under the supervision of the agricultural inspectors who are doing this work well. I don't know why we should introduce a new inspection service; why we should introduce some new state bureaucracy, but when you are in the budget you have adopted - and also in the coalition contract you have written - to reduce red tape in this country. On the other hand, agricultural inspectors do such work as counting cattle on stables when it comes to direct payments. Highly qualified people walk around our farms and consider whether a farmer has applied 5 or 6 cows to obtain a subsidy or has not reported any more. I wonder if this is worthy and if this is a rational system for the resolution of these agricultural tasks. This law introduces a large feeding world, which does not have any powers under this law, in fact, it is some consultative body of the minister; it is said that a singing society can sing from time to time, and no one listens to it. But, of course, this singing society will cost so much and so much money. I'm sorry to say this, but if there's no institution in this marriage, let the world feed no powers, no real powers, then - in my opinion - it's no different than the singing society. With the amendment, I suggested that we remove this world, but I changed my mind later and announced that I would withdraw the amendment. However, I am still convinced that this world does not have any essential powers for feeding. As far as the deadlines for granting certain authorisations for the registration of establishments are concerned, then when registering additives added to compound feed and premixtures and the like, I am opposed to the fact that the Ministry of Agriculture allows itself to issue licences one year after the submission of the full application. One year after the full application is made, there is absolutely too much time and such a way of working is actually creating economic damage. Another point I would like to touch in this section is the veterinary certificate for compound feed or feed containing protein supplements. My personal opinion is that the proposal to delete this article is an extremely controversial proposal, a controversial amendment. We should think together about a solution, because I personally believe that at a time when the whole of Europe is facing a major challenge in the field of agricultural policy, when there are some very dangerous infectious diseases in our immediate vicinity, such as foot-and-mouth disease, I would say not, these are the most frequently mentioned BSEs in the first place; but I think that foot-and-mouth disease is much more dangerous to our agriculture than BSE. There are also some other infectious diseases that can also be extremely dangerous, such as classical swine fever, including chicken fever, and any other diseases that could be listed. It seems to me that some kind of control and certification in traffic should be accompanied by these concentrates, but it is not said that this should be resolved in the manner proposed by the Ministry. I am asking you in the coalition to sort of coordinate around this and still give you the opportunity to have some certificate, some paper feed in traffic in some way; to sort this matter out so that it will be cheap, which can be cheap, that it will not be too expensive; but that the feed could circulate in traffic without any paper – this matter seems very dangerous to me and I think that it can happen quickly that we will oppose such a decision, especially if it happened to get involved in Slovenia in this way, some of the very dangerous infectious diseases. I can tell you that a very dangerous infectious disease has been brought to England by foot-and-mouth disease, or that an appropriate certificate has not been required. In 1998, classical swine fever was brought to the Netherlands, also through uncontrolled transport. The price of this can be extremely high. Once again, try to coordinate in the coalition and find a solution. As far as our party is concerned, we will certainly support such a solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you. Do representatives of other parliamentary groups also want to perform? Please, Geza Juban of the LDS delegation has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I don't think there will be a comment on what the parliamentary groups have presented. In fact, we agree with their views to a large extent. And our findings are similar to the fact that we are dealing with a third version of the law, which has been amended by the new amendments, which are mainly amendments of the government, including those which the Committee has taken as its own, that, like the committee, we have met several times in the club on a topic that is being addressed, in particular with regard to the creation of new administrations and services that will be burdened by the feed chain. Such a law as it stands before us does bring about a new system of control. And in our opinion, control is strong enough to prevent any negative phenomena from being introduced or tolerated by feed. We have gone through a review of the amendments and we have found that we can support, except for one case, all the amendments of the government, as well as the amendments of the committee and one amendment of the fellow Member of Parliament. Otherwise, if necessary, we will be involved in the debate on individual articles if the matter is incomprehensible or our position will be different from that of Parliament here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you. The opinion will be presented by Janko Weber on behalf of the United Nations Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to everyone. According to the UK Group, the biggest dilemma remained in this law precisely because the title of the law was not adequately defined and, of course, later on the content itself or the width of the treatment of all components or products which were indeed to go into the category of feeding. By the way, we're talking about the feed law. The content of the law itself is, of course, about feeders and the production of feed materials or feed materials. Here is this dilemma regarding control, of course, remained unresolved and also all the concerns that have been given, that by deleting Article 9 there will be no control of the veterinary administration over the feed, of course they do not hold. However, such a measure can have extremely severe consequences for itself, for feeding in the broadest sense of the word is, of course, all that is used to feed animals, and if we imagine a farmer sewing hay from the field and, of course, then taking it into the barn, it is only possible that a veterinarian will give an appropriate certificate that this hay is appropriate and that it can be placed in a manger of animals. If we concentrate solely and solely on feed and feed materials, many dilemmas would be significantly lower. The amendments adopted both on the Committee and later submitted by the Government do not in any way solve this problem, and our assessment is that the impact on farms is likely to be greater than it would have been if the European Union strategy, which also applies only to feed production and feed materials, were consistently followed. So the costs for farmers or farms will certainly be higher and we are actually worried because there is no good explanation as to what the costs will be. At the same time, of course, we can also see that due to tighter controls, there will be greater budget entry due to fines recovered, fines collected or infringements of the rule of law. At the same time, of course, we do not have an adequate response to whether it is already due to the adoption of the Veterinary Act, which also provides that the feed is accompanied by a veterinary certificate or other relevant health certificate - so we do not have an analysis of how the Veterinary Act is adopted or is already being implemented, which is also addressing the exact same procedure as it is supposed to be once again in the Feed Law. If the veterinary law is not implemented, then why write another provision in the feed law? By doing so, we are twice in breach of legislation, and we will probably have to, even in some reports, if we are already talking about the European Union, then also provide explanations as to why we are not implementing these two laws. In short, we are clearly prescribing much more than we can do in practice, but this should also be analysed in detail by, in particular, the proposer and to give clear answers to whether it is really reasonable to adopt provisions that duplicate or specify something that is not possible to implement in practice. Therefore, even in our Member State, we see no greater need for Article 9 to be supported or to remain in this law, for if Article 35 of the Veterinary Act is not already being implemented, then it is not reasonable to write a similar provision in the Feed Law and then we are in breach of two laws. Otherwise, we support the direction to put in place as much control over the controls as possible, and especially on the imports of these feeds and, of course, also raw materials for all these feeds, because this is that crucial moment or these are the key raw materials that really affect whether we produce healthy food or whether we eat healthy food or not. All these provisions, which go in this direction, are for us those that we will support, and we will not, after all, support this law, as it was submitted, complemented by these, but with a taste that some financial consequences and the possibilities of implementing the law will not be imposed in a way that would lead to the development of Slovenian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm adjourning the session. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m. Please listen to another message. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u122	Mr. Chairman, thank you very much. Just for a little while. Members of the friendship group with Croatia received a notice today that they would meet briefly in a large salon at 2.00 p.m. It is also about the formal establishment of a group in the Croatian Parliament in Zagreb yesterday and the negotiation of a meeting in Krske and Bizell on 12 February. Given that there are very complex situations in different areas between the two countries, I think this association will be useful. So I invite you to come to the big salon for a short while at 2 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u123	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We will continue with the suspension of the 12th session and with this end of the 9th point, with the consideration of the proposal for a feed law. I have some additional apologies. We have remained in the positions of the Group of Members, and we will continue with the views of the Members and Members. Colleagues and colleagues! Of course, many more cards have been inserted than the Members and Members present. You're not the only one, Comrade Sok. Good to see you, or I wouldn't hear you. I'll try to determine the presence in the hall so that we can continue with the suspension of the 12th session. Please press the "quorum" button. [[...]] We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. In order to speak and present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, a colleague of Peče has applied. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u124	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! To the extent that it has been exposed to the views of the groups before me, we also say in the Slovenian National Party that the law is not appropriate for this treatment at the moment. By allowing that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u125	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you. To touch on those particularly pressing matters arising from the law or in the opinion of the Slovenian national party. For the first time, it is a speech by the editorial who submitted a report on the Feed Law, as well as an explanation that it is one of those laws relating to the so-called European acquis, where it is a matter of connection or acceptance of obligations, criteria and meaningful provisions applicable abroad In this regard, I think it has also been exposed, but despite the fact that a Slovenian farmer cannot even be equated with a related activity or with a farmer who deals with this activity or with a person who is engaged in this activity in the European market. Therefore, we find this comparison and presentation to be very inadequacy and even uninhabitable under this condition. As you probably know, at this point, any difficulty in the position of farmers, the legal difficulties in the operation, is the only way to get closer to the collapse of this activity, which many already claim is on the verge of, say, existence and that this country, the National Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should approach, but not further restrict. According to our belief, the law itself, as the government has given us in the procedure of its long-standing own procedure, with huge amendments of its own, with amendments to the law, shows that even the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in this area has not been united, represents only an increase in the legal void on the other hand, meaning that the competent or the competent ministry in this area will take so much power that it will substantively create everything with its sub-legislative acts. I think that this is unacceptable to the National Assembly and unacceptable to all those parties to the laws, because they will not have a roof law that should be, which sets basic aspirations and standards in its contents, but, above all, the tasks and duties of life will come to life by means of sub-legislative acts. In our opinion, in addition to making the life of the Slovenian farmer more difficult, one of the substantive provisions by which the government seeks to enforce its right, so-called introduction of administrative bureaucracy, is that the state administration will only increase in the form of different inspectors, in which case the feed inspection, which will be additionally substantive and financially controlled by the Slovenian farmer. But it would be good if we were just monitoring, not assigning him specific weightier tasks, with which, of course, if he wanted to carry them out, he would not be able to compete in the so-called European market, on which you all want Slovenia to step. Furthermore, as in one previous law, it has already been said that, as a rule, whether in the form of laws or regulations, matters will start and end in the form of financial rules. I think it's one of those laws that's the most inappropriate in this area. It is probably most inconvenient because the government will try to determine the obligations it will commit to a Slovenian farmer after a new one, mainly by means of sub-laws. I will not talk about the ambiguity of the delimitation or definition from crop to feed, because I think it was a speech, and I believe that it will continue to be discussed by individual Members. However, I would like to say that we do not intend to support the law in such a form by Members of the Slovenian National Party because of the four basic facts listed above, which, if not otherwise, would make Slovenian farmers deserve a different treatment of this issue, as attributed to them by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or that part of the Members who agree with such a form of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Please, Comrade Mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I would like to say that we will support the proposal proposed by the Government. Otherwise, we have a slightly different position to some amendments adopted by the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food. We will try to put these views on the procedure. Otherwise, I do not want to, because I cannot, by the rules of procedure, politicise with some of the colleagues who spoke on behalf of the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Does any other group want a word? Otherwise, I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. There are no written, no oral applications, so please, do you want the word again? [[...]] As a Member of Parliament. Please, you have the floor, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. President. Before that, some claims were made that I had to react to. In his performance, Comrade Sušnik used very resounding and very strange words. He said, "let's stop the vets who have gained too much and too much power in this game." He also spoke of the prices of veterinary services that shudder at the door of our farmer. Here I will try to say in these five minutes that the veterinary service is privatised, there is a part of the veterinary service seven years on the market and this service is not actually affected by Parliament and not by government. It's in the market. Secondly, in the Veterinary Act, which was also assisted by a fellow Sušnik, this law defines the user council and here users can also, real farmers, co-form these prices. Second, the fees or fees charged by the inspection services are the inspectors. However, for this reason, a regulation of the Ministry of Veterinary Fees Regulation is the responsibility of the Government to determine the amount of these fees. Specifically, "gis" for meat and milk, these gentlemen have calculated that the price of these fees per kilogram of meat is 1.5 tolar. Colleagues and colleagues, that's the price of control. That's what we have to ask ourselves. Is it too much or too little? However, the feed law states in the same provision that 5 points are paid for a tonne of feed, and that one point is 15 tolars. So, for a ton of feed, the registered plant will have to pay 75 tolars of fees. This fee will be paid at the time of issue of the veterinary certificate. That's what we're talking about! Colleagues and colleagues, here, when we have gone from SAPARD to sublegal regulations and everything, we can take this as an interpretation against the Minister of Agriculture. And that's a completely different subject. Now we're talking about the feed law, we're talking about control of this feed that's going to be produced in registered establishments, and not control the feed on the lawn, so that the veterinarian will have to stand by the farmer when he gives the weed to the cow with the pitchforks. This is a registered establishment under this law where veterinary supervision will take place. I think this is where we decide whether we have control or if we don't have control. Now all the anger and everything that's wrong with agriculture, I'm also sure that there's a lot of things wrong and there's a lot of things that need to be settled, and we should have fixed it a long time ago, but it's not the vet's fault. See how many jobs are on the state budget, which are also paid by taxpayers and farmers if you want. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u131	Fellow Jerovšek and colleague Sušnik have been reported. First, my friend Jerovšek. Otherwise, I would like to invite the debate to develop after we vote on the amendments, because we will go to the vote on them immediately.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u132	On this general part, and this dilemma, how much control and in what form, and how expensive control in the production of feed, I also have to speak to myself. I believe that colleague Kramberger looks very professionally at these matters and knows both the salaries, the real agricultural side and the veterinary side, as well as the legislative role of chairman of the Committee on Agriculture. However, I think it is necessary to listen to signals from the field, from the livestock sector to the voices of farmers who have become extremely critical or in great distress. Any additional toll that burdens their production actually pushes them into an unenviable position, because it is necessary to find that farmers, especially livestock farmers, are extremely burdened by price scissors and by the natural disasters that have taken place in recent years. In doing so, I refer to the occurrence of severe infectious diseases, which all the elements in this chain appear to have borne most of the additional costs to livestock farmers. In this chain, however, some elements are also extremely good, despite this crisis, and have great profits and, in fact, their material situation has improved. I think there's a balance to be hunted here. All these jobs and the ministry must listen more carefully to what is happening. We cannot oppose the law that is needed, but, as with most other laws, we also see alienation in this law. It's alienation from the point that we're going to have a healthy diet of animals. And, of course, rationally, too. Look, I have to point out that our farmers are crazy cows when the first case occurs, and I have to say that I was mostly farmers, livestock farmers, at some convention, and I have to say that they were skeptical about whether this phenomenon of mad cows in the Upper Savin Valley actually appeared. Their belief was majority that it was planted. So far things have gone that the matter has been planted, that some lobbyists have invented it by putting more pressure on the breeders. As the fact is that living animals are constantly falling at all prices, this is by no means known in the store, in order to reduce consumption, the price of meat accidentally falls. This is a country error protecting one in the production chain. And from this point of view, they also look at all the new developments that are needed by these new laws. That's why I'm calling on this government party to be extremely rational, to also tame veterinary appetites. Veterinary appetites have grown in these diseases. I have to say, we know there's a lot of need, a lot of improvement. However, the fact is that the veterinary appetites have multiplied so much and that today, if you are watching mostly, that the farmer and the veterinarian no longer feel the ally they have so far. In the eyes of most farmers today the veterinarian, unfortunately, operates in some perception of administrator, bureaucrat. In order not to see farmers in a bureaucrat's veterinarian, I think that the most can be done by the veterinary organisation itself, but also through these laws, we have to limit extremely to the emergency level and to the necessary prices. I'll be done. Mr Kramberger used to count the points. It seemed very similar to the lawyer's -- that's so many points, that's so many points, that's so many points. There, we know there's never anything cheap. But we need to be more rational. This livestock production does not bear high costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u133	Thank you, Comrade Jerovšek. Comrade Sušnik has the floor, followed by Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like to say to the honourable Mr Kramberger that I have cited some of the most pressing problems as an example of the effect of the law, which has been adopted quickly, inconveniently, even in the sense of the proposed rapid procedure for the adoption of the feed law. Look, no one can convince me that these hair claims have been drawn and that they don't. Nobody. Only a comparative examination with neighbouring Austria says so. The slaughter of cattle, old cows today cost us half or even a cow. Listen, this cannot be the case, compared to neighbouring Austria, when this is significantly cheaper when the country pays the cost of destroying harmful veterinary waste. It just doesn't work. See, this measure around the slaughter - whether it is humane, is it economic to drive cattle from all over Koroška to slaughter somewhere in Maribor or elsewhere. This seems to me both in terms of costs and in terms of animal torture and slaughter humanity - this is certainly not good. And I believe that this has been legalized in the last period as a result of the adoption of the Veterinary Act and the regulations. Secondly, no one can convince me that it has been established that six times in the same period as a comparable farmer in a neighbouring country should be subjected to a health-care check that this is a tendency towards a higher standard. This is purely simple discrimination and charging unnecessary costs to our foster parents. Where he's going, look where that policy's going! Where we came from, how you imagine rural development in the fact that practically in the entire area of Crassus there is no more organised milk purchase. How do you imagine the development of the countryside in the fact that, practically with these strict regulations, we have made it impossible for that small farmer who has arranged one or two cattle for his own needs, who is practically a communer who has cared for or prevented the cultivation of the countryside. If these are not arguments that should lead us to reflection, then I think something is very wrong, but I think they are.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. May I say that because more and more colleagues are now taking note of the word - first of all, Comrade Rokavec - that in this general debate they would not interfere with the explanations of the contents of the amendments, because otherwise this discussion will be repeated. I propose that we now hold a general debate and then go from the amendment to the amendment, even through the debate. Comrade Rokavec, then colleague Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I would like to ask you to remind actually the debaters that they are actually moving around the topic on the agenda in their debates, not the whole issue of agriculture, although it is also related. And to a large extent, or almost everything that my colleague Sušnik said, I also agree. But the problem is that, since our country has long been far from ready, it is not yet ready to do so, so that it can actually take an equal approach to all regulations and adaptations, as well as to the economic power of agriculture in the European Union. But so much for that comment. Second of all, this feed law. I am confident that if we accept those amendments adopted by the Committee, then this law will probably constitute one minimum compromise of what is likely to be bearable in this area, on the one hand, for farmers, for agricultural producers, as well as for a country that must take care of proper control and quality, the quality of food in its entirety. However, I think it would be necessary and that there is not enough demarcated area, what feed is, basic production feed, and what feeds represent. I have tabled an amendment. Although representatives of the government here argue that this is impossible to separate, I am confident that there will be different interpretations in practice and interpretation. It can also be interpreted as meaning that certain agricultural services will interpret things differently or prepare a sub-legal content for individual solutions in this direction, that in fact it will not be the starting point for what is so far natural and, in itself, conditional. I can only make one case. In fact, it is possible to explain under this law that if a farmer produces a non-quality silage, the basic vulminous feed that will not yet be used for feeding, but if the inspector wants to control this feed, because it is possible that it will not be as high-quality, health-friendly, but that it will not be so high-quality that the farmer can be punished because of the adverse weather conditions that he has to pack so much feed and that it affects the lower quality, the lower quality, would also be punished. This dilemma needs to be clarified clearly before we adopt this law. This is one of the key fears and dilemmas that farmers are asking about. I think that if we clear this up, then I think it will be much easier to vote for the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Your warning is also valuable and I will stick to it, as I said at the beginning of the discussion. Comrade Kramberger, you're the last person on my list.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to object to my colleague Sušnik, and I also wanted to say that, in fact, all these statements that my colleague Sušnik is talking about are not the subject of the feed law, but are other problems that are undoubtedly. Let's say it's a problem of nursing examinations. This is what we have discussed on the Committee on Agriculture, and this is also where Comrade Sušnik has asked this question, and I also deeply agree with it, but we are still waiting for the Minister of Health to amend the regulation. This is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, but this is the problem of the government. This is not a veterinary problem, it is a problem to organize these services and how this industry is organized in our country. It is known that if farmers then exercised 45% of that property in cooperatives, it would be quite different today. But that's not really what we have to do. There's no more agreed economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u139	There are no more reported on my list, which could mean that we are closing the general debate and going to review the amendments tabled. I am closing the debate and moving on to a second reading. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. We are voting on this proposal. Please. Let us vote on this procedural proposal! There are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. 43 were in favour, 2 were opposed. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are now moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 22 January this year. Two amendments were tabled in Article 2. Anyone want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] We will then vote on them, and I would point out that the amendment under order number 2 is a substantive link to the amendment to Article 7 under order number 4. First, vote on the amendment under order number 1. Please, let's vote! There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 40 for it, no one was against it. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the first amendment has been adopted. We will vote on the amendment under order number 2. I have already warned that it is related to the amendment to Article 7 under order number 4. Explanation of voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u140	I would only ask for 3 minutes of breaks for very short consultations in my parliamentary group or in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group before the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u141	It's 3:02 p.m. You were very clear. You need three minutes. We'll pick it up at 3:05. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u142	We're detecting presence in the hall, please press the quorum key. I'm going to have to rediscover the conclusion. Please, colleagues and colleagues, if they press the quorum key, there are enough Members and Members present to make a decision. There's enough of us in the hall. I don't think it's about politics, it's about too little concentration. Who's against me if I ever see another presence? I'm gonna rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the quorum key. There's enough of us in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There's 51 of us in the hall. The National Assembly is adjourned. Mr Peče wanted a break on behalf of the Group of Members. You want to explain your views? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u143	Thank you. Indeed, the break requested by the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group was not intended to prolong the debate. But, ladies and gentlemen, allow me a minute or two. I'll count three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve, no others.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u144	It's not a general debate right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u145	It is not general, but rather the position as to what the Group of Members has agreed and then the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u146	You can't do that. My friend Patch, you can't. You can explain the views of the amendment under order number two to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u147	Then I withdraw the debate and I ask you to give me procedural advice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u148	You want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u149	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. The Minister prescribes more detailed conditions, the Minister prescribes more detailed conditions, the Minister prescribes more detailed conditions, the Minister prescribes, irrespective of the provisions of the previous paragraph, the Minister prescribes, republishes, the Minister prescribes more details, the Minister deletes etc. There is no article in this law that would not give the Minister the authority. We take an empty pile of paper. Accordingly, I propose to accept the following proposal, given that the law is fast-track and that everything is in the Ministry's hands as a motioner to change the title: the Law on Minister's powers with two articles: for the first time, it is prescribed by the Minister, and for the second time, which will be the dictates of the existing Article 43, this law shall enter into force 15 days after its publication. I think that by doing this we will all be saved by what we want, you will have a good feeling or good news that you have done something to join the European Union, the Minister will leave here with the authority [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u150	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u151	that this law gives him or her [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u152	He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u153	the position will gain in time. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u154	From experience, my colleague and Member, you know that you have now abused the procedural proposal. It can't be put to the vote, you know that. I therefore propose that we do not continue this discussion and that it may communicate its views to the amendment under order number two to anyone else if it so wishes, or I will put this amendment to the vote. There are no more applications, so I am putting an amendment under order number two to the vote. Colleagues and colleagues, a little concentration will be required in order to be able to deal with this item on the agenda. We have a series of votes ahead of us. I reopen the vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 2. We're in the middle of a vote. I'm taking ten minutes off. We'll continue at 3.21 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u155	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. In a minute, we will vote for the third time on the amendment and at the same time on the article. We are in the middle of a vote, Comrade Jerovšek, now I cannot give you my word. I shall put to the vote the amendment under order number 2 to Article 2. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present; 47 were in favour, and one was against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Please go to the 4th page of your review and to the proposal to amend Article 7 into the text as set out below. We have a procedural proposal. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. During the break, we consulted a little and will make a procedural proposal. We're at the beginning of second reading of the law. We have adopted two amendments and I think it is a good time or a little late to propose, in accordance with Article 179, that the treatment be terminated and that the second and third treatments are carried out in accordance with the normal procedure. Indeed, we have examined some of the other critical comments, and in fact, the first reading has shown that the law is extremely important, but is in fact not substantively harmonised, even to an additional extent inconsistent. Furthermore, yesterday the European Union - or in these days - adopted financial frameworks for the approximation of the European Union, which suggest that our agriculture will receive significantly less resources in the accession status process and at the time of entry. Therefore, it is not wise for us in Slovenia to be more papal than the pope. In fact, that would destroy our own base. Look, all I'm saying is that some of the comments are experts, for example, I'm going to read one: "Therefore, according to the proposal of the law, traffic in feed has been controlled in a way that no one in the world knows about food." I think it is wise to take the time to deal with this law properly, and I hope that it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure that the second hearing be held at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u157	Comrade Jerovšek, the decision-making process is irreversible, is not reversible, it is not possible to reverse the possibility of such a procedural decision. This was possible before the initiation of the hearing and the decision on the amendments. But now we're in the middle of this, and you missed that opportunity, and I have it in the script when we went to the vote, and it's not possible to go back to a procedural decision like this. So we have a vote on the amendment of the text7. Article 2 Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Excuse me? This is an amendment under order number four on the fourth page, to Article 7. I put this proposal to the vote if no one wants a word. We're voting. 56 colleagues and colleagues were present, 50 voted in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] That's how the amendment was adopted. This is related to the amendment to Article 8 under order number one and to the amendment to Article 22, under order number one. Anyone want to talk about these two amendments? [[No, no, ……]] We will then vote on them, first of all on the amendment under order number one to Article 8. We're voting. 49 are present, 44 are present, 1 is present. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. Now to the amendment under order number one to Article 22. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 46 of whom were in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] This amendment has also been adopted. Now we must vote on Article 2 in full. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on Article 2 in full. 46 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. We are now moving forward to the amendment under order number one to Article 3, on the first page of the review. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I have to say that I do not intend to support this amendment, but I do not think it has been supported by its mother's working body. This amendment states that a new fifth paragraph is added, which states that the Minister may lay down more detailed conditions regarding the health or quality of feed produced on the agricultural holding. I am personally convinced, and I have already discussed on the committee itself, that such solutions must respect the principle of legality, in accordance with Article 120 of the Constitution. I am sure that already the basic article, the basic law, should contain the substantive framework within which the Minister can then lay down some additional conditions. If this is not in the law, then the law issued can go beyond the law itself. Therefore, I will not vote again, once again, to warn that for approximately the same reasons the mother's working body was against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u159	Anyone else want a word? He does. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the introduction of a new regulation on health adequacy. This is regulated in the second paragraph of Article 3, where it refers to the health adequacy of the feed, which is regulated by veterinary law, and here the Minister prescribes only quality standards in paragraph 5 and the applicable regulation of the proposal of Article 3 is appropriate and I will vote against this amendment by the Government, as did the Committee on Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u161	Anyone else want a word? I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3. Please! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3 on page 1 of the review. 57 colleagues and colleagues are present. 8 for, 48 for. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. We are voting on the whole article. Please! Let us vote on the text of Article 3. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present. 49 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text of Article 3 is adopted. We have five amendments tabled for Article 4. I suggest we discuss all of this together. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Now we'll make the decisions in order. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 4. I'm putting him to the vote. 54 attended. 50 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Please. 48 present. 47 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote! There's 49 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 3 has been accepted. Before we go to the vote on the fourth amendment, let me point out that if the amendment is adopted under order number 5, it is irrelevant. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. 49 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was adopted, making the fifth meaningless. We vote on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. There's 48, 46 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] The text of Article 4 is adopted. We have a proposal for a new 4a. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We are voting on a new Article 4.a. There's 47, 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. You do not have an amendment in your review for the new 6a article submitted by your colleague Franci Rokavec, but you do have it on your hands. My colleague Rokavec wants to explain his proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. I've already talked about this amendment in the debate. I would suggest, Mr President, that the content of the amendment should be supplemented by the following: "The provisions of Article 6 of this Law shall not apply to the transport of feed produced on farms and agricultural holdings in the Republic of Slovenia." In fact, it is a provision of Article 6 which speaks of transport and storage. This correction removes any doubt that any new documentation for the transport of feed is necessary, but there is still a possibility that inspection or inspection services for the control of feed may also control this feed. Let us be clear, however, that there is no need for any new documentation, only in the case of transport for feed or storage. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u163	Your intervention is accepted: the provisions of Article 6 shall not apply to the transport of feed produced on farms and agricultural holdings in the Republic of Slovenia. Anyone want a word on this proposal? Comrade Sok and later the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you for your word. It would be very good if the representatives of the government, with the minister at the head of this amendment, supported it. This amendment would resolve many of the dilemmas that have arisen in the debate itself in the adoption of this law and which will follow in the implementation of the law itself. If this amendment were to be adopted, certain dilemmas would be raised, whether this law applies only to compound feed, additives and premixtures, or whether this law applies to the whole area of feed. I think that this amendment would actually exclude these issues and dilemmas that have arisen with regard to the production of feed in agricultural establishments. Our Group of Members or I myself propose to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u165	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. What's the government's position? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u166	Your Honor! The government opposes this amendment, because feed produced in an agricultural establishment, as Member Rokavec said, does not need a certificate. This is evident from this law. However, if an agricultural establishment processes products of animal origin or additives or premixtures which are registered in the register of establishments, then it needs this certificate. This is specifically set out in our amendment to Article 7. That is why this concern of the Member is too great and we would ask that we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u167	That's the government's position. Anyone else want a word? My friend Rokavec, the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you for your word. I'd like to fix my friend's juice. In fact, we do not delete the provision on feed produced on agricultural holdings under this Act, but clearly define already Article 6a that there is no need for any new documentation, apart from, of course, other rules, for the marketing of feed produced on agricultural holdings. That, I think, should be distinguished. That is why I have also proposed that, for the word 'definition', this basic amendment of Article 6 should be corrected, which speaks exclusively of transport and storage. However, it still remains in the provisions of the feed law as a whole, as well as the basic aluminium feed as well as other feed materials and compound feeds and additives. I think there's been a slight misunderstanding here, and I think this correction really solves the dilemma.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u169	The government opposes, we've heard. Would you like to explain your position further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u170	We remain in our position to oppose, because we must stress, however, that the feed produced in agricultural establishments must be under the health control of veterinary inspectors, which is now. The farmer who feeds the livestock eventually lands on the plate of the Slovenian consumer. So far, we have only talked about health concerns, in this case we are also talking about quality, which means that this amendment is linked to Article 3, which then also allows us to control farms or to act if the inspector in his monitoring is called a regular review, but the feed is not medically and qualitatively reliable or objectionable. Otherwise, we cannot provide a chain of safe and healthy food.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u171	Comrade Juban, then colleague Sok, by suggesting that we do not repeat the arguments for and against. Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u172	The purpose of the amendment may be good, and if it came out that way, or if it were written as it is in the explanatory memorandum, it might even support it. This is not the case, however, because we are talking about farmed feed and farm holdings in the Republic of Slovenia, where we can produce a variety of things so far as to obtain complete animal feed or a complete meal. Thus read in the text of the amendment. Then we can also exclude this from full control as regards quality standards. I don't think it would be good here, but even when we speak in the Republic of Slovenia - that is to say one part of the law and also the control that is needed. I agree with everything you've said about excessive control. But one part of the law will become rickety because it will not interfere with quality standards, which are also necessary controls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you very much. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I'm reading if I have an amendment the way Mr. Rokavec put it here on the table, as it says. Thus, it is proposed that a new Article 6a be written in the law, which will become probably Article 7 of this Act after the drafting is done, and which will state that the provisions of this Act - called the Feed Law - do not apply to the transport of feed produced on farms and agricultural holdings in the Republic of Slovenia. If we write that down, then of course all the dilemmas about when this law is applied and to what extent it is applied, we exclude vulnominous, actually vulnominous feed, what it then says to the educated. Feed concentrates, protein supplements, etc. However, they can only be produced in registered establishments. That's how I understand this law. It means concentrate compound feed, premixtures, additives, etc. they cannot be produced in establishments which are not registered for this purpose. Of course, farms and farms are not and will not be able to register under this law. I suggest we support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u175	I see some lively consultations, not just among Members of Parliament, but also among the government. I ask everyone for discretion, so that colleagues can communicate their views normally when they speak. My colleague Rokavec wanted an explanation and then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you for your word. I would only correct my colleague Juban, who said that the amendment was written so that a lot of other things could have been produced. I'd like to draw attention to the definition of "made." Something's a product, but something's been grown. When a product is a product, of course, it can be many other things, and this law clearly limits it. But if the word "manufactured" is feed, it is known what kind of feed it is -- that feed that is naturally produced.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u177	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor. Mr. Minister has the only word in the National Assembly right now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u178	Yes, very briefly. It is very embarrassing and unpleasant that, in fact, it is possible even in such a way to have a government that is somehow in contact with its Members, which is, of course, extremely inappropriate. It is, however, a fact that if this amendment is accepted, in essence any control of the supervision in the sense that it is necessary. But I think the other things have already been sufficiently defined and explained, so I think it's the amendment that doesn't show support.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u179	I will, of course, give my word, but I think the arguments and explanations are repeating now. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. Mr. Minister, I need to correct you in your statements. Indeed, the fact is, I have spoken to a fellow Austrian Koroška in these days, and I specifically asked him how they have domestically produced feed in Austria. He assured me that there was no administrative regulation in this area. Then let's see who's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u181	Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u182	I'd like to support or support this amendment. At the same time, I think it is the definition of quality control in the face of the law in order to ensure that the feed is fit for health. Let's leave it up to you, please, cattle, see if the feed is good enough to eat it or not. The second is medical fitness, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u183	Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u184	I'm sorry. I hope, of course, that he will never again ask me what is going on with any safe food strategy and with the control of product integrity, with consumer protection and everything else, because these are, of course, not serious discussions in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u185	I suggest we vote. Comrade Sponik wants a word before that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u186	Thank you, Mr. President. Before voting, I would like to request a 15-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u187	Yes, I would have closed the debate before that. I'm sorry, I haven't cut the session yet. I'll close the debate. Anyone else want a word before that? [[He does.]] Comrade Juban, colleague of Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Perhaps there will be a reflection of the Group of Members, which is fine with them taking time to think. Look, I'll give the case. Soybeans are also produced on the farm, on the agricultural holding. The soybean grain is so far away from the conditions in this grain that the micro-organisms found on this grain become toxic in their diet. For this reason, I see no reason not to prescribe in any way how to deal with such material, which is then the basis for the assembly of compound feeds, in order to avoid any deterioration in the transport or storage process and to avoid harmful phenomena. And that's also my reason for thinking that maybe we shouldn't have made too many exceptions to harm someone we wouldn't want to harm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u189	Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr. President! I admit I'm not an expert in this area, but there's something I can say for sure. And this is that serious control of the quality of feed undoubtedly increases the market value of our agricultural crops.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u191	Anyone else want a word before I close the debate and order a fifteen-minute recess? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this amendment. We'll continue at 4:02 p.m. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u192	I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the Chamber, we will proceed with the 9th interrupt at the 12th meeting. In particular, I invite the SLS Group, which took a 15-minute recess to join the National Assembly, to communicate its position if it so wishes. Please come to the hall, I'll determine the presence. Please take your seats. We're at the end of the 9th item of the agenda. Mr Rokavec submitted a proposal for a new Article 6.a. The debate opened, it was closed, and the SLS Group requested a recess. First, we will determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present. Comrade Companion, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u193	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In those 15 minutes, we consulted in the Group of Members on this issue, which is covered by this amendment. We have found that this is an important issue and the Group of Members will support the position of the government or of the Minister of Mags. Booth and the proposed amendment will not support it. And your fellow Member, Rokavec, will decide on his own conscience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u194	Thank you very much. We are voting on the proposal for a new Article 6a. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a new Article 6a and there is no peace in the Chamber without a vote. 59 present, 18 for, 39 versus. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] The proposal did not receive the necessary support. On page three, we have a review of the amendments to Article 7. We have already decided on the amendment under order number four; I am opening a debate on the first three. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote, first of all on the amendment under order number one to Article 7. I'm putting it to a vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We'll try to get this marriage under the roof today. Present 57, 54 for, no one against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] This proposal has received support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two to Article 7. We're voting. There's 53, 48 for, no one against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And finally, an amendment under order number three. We're voting. Of the 57 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. Of the 56 present, 52 voted in favour, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have already decided on the amendment to Article 8, so we can now decide on the whole article. We're voting. Of the 56 present, 52 voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have three proposals for amendments tabled on the 5th and 6th pages of Article 9. Anybody want a word? Yes, Comrade Sok. Excuse me? [[A question from the bench.]] You want a word? You have the floor, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to point out that the amendment to Article 9 was adopted by the Committee in order to delete Article 9 but that I do not have it in this review. And I don't know if this amendment is now under consideration?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u196	This is an amendment under order number one.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much. So I would like to explain because I myself have proposed an amendment to this article. It seems to me that the deletion of this article - as proposed by Ambassador Geza Juban and, of course, this amendment on the Committee has also received a minimum majority, given the representation of LDS Members in this Committee - is an inappropriate solution to this law. I'll try to explain why. Of course, it's hard to explain anything here in some way, I would say, the moment when the government in this House is some sort of anti-theterinary or I don't know what it would call this mood, and actually it's a bit of a torment to me. Veterinary, however, is very important through its legislation in the countries of the European Union. Unfortunately, with us in the past, this area did not matter, or many people didn't even know that there was a vet in the country. It was only as we began to approach the European Union that this area became extremely important. Look, it's just a line that seems a little controversial to me. I myself have proposed that Article 9 should be amended and that it should somehow be reported that it feeds mixtures and medicated feed - it is said to be a certain category of feed - that it must be accompanied by either a veterinary certificate or another document prescribed on the market; another document prescribed by the Minister and accompanied by a compound or medicated feed on the market. I think this matter is very important. Even today, when I first stated the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I said - and you will remember - that in England, not long ago, it was spreading an extremely dangerous infectious disease of foot-and-mouth disease. 10,000 animals were killed. It was found, however, that the disease was brought to England by garbage, meaning food that had not been examined and which came from a cargo ship in the diet of pigs. In 1998, classical swine fever occurred in the Netherlands. If I recall correctly, 2 million pigs had to be killed in the Netherlands at that time. The price they paid for this was over 2 billion marks. It may not seem important to you, but it's a very big deal. A certain animal infectious disease at some point, if it does occur, may disrupt the national economy of a country. I think we're all aware of that. I can tell you one more experience. In the mess hall where I worked - I covered it as an inspector - they could not export feed concentrates to neighbouring Croatia without such certificates. I think that's still the way it is today. And I don't know if the government or the individual Members have a say in this border traffic. Croats simply request this certificate or a single customer cannot take cross-border compound feeds, a feed concentrate. I'm warning you. It is not necessarily for you to listen to the opposition, but because - as my colleague Lavrinc said - because of the magnetogram I speak, not because someone in this House would listen to me; because of the magnetogram that I could tell you, perhaps even in this mandate, it could be very quickly: "You were the one who opposed and you blamed it." So, once again, I propose that we adopt one of these two amendments, if not what I have proposed, perhaps the government, to leave this article open in some way, we can at the end of any additional decision to find an appropriate solution by the third reading of the Ministry. It is said that the compound feed and medicated feed in transport is accompanied by a document. A document certifying that the establishment in which the compound was produced is a premixture or a supplement that it is under control. A document guaranteeing that the compound feed is medically, hygienicly, sanitaryly sound. I think that if we delete the article and leave it without any document in circulation, we will make a huge mistake in Parliament. As an opposition Member, I should actually defend the deletion of this article. But coming from the profession - I think I know this extremely delicate area - I think the deletion, as you suggested, should not be taken into account. I suggest you reconsider whether you can listen to me or not, this will remain in the magnetogram as I suggested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u198	I've got a few applications for my word. First, Comrade Sušnik, behind him is a colleague of mags. Kramerget, colleague of Juban and colleague Weber. First of all, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I myself support the amendment proposing the deletion of this article, even if the amendment proposing a new Article 6a has been rejected, which represents a kind of veterinary domination or veterinary victory again. I can't imagine that all the feed that appears on the market should be accompanied by a veterinary certificate. For feed also appears in bags of 25, 30 and 50 kilograms, in small stores on the left and right, and if I understand correctly, it means that each bag must be accompanied by a veterinary certificate with some document, with some paper, a document. If I understand the proponents in that it is in the fact that this feed can occur in a million, two or three bags, and if you count to issue for each bag your certificate, and 150 tolars, then it is an additional 350, 450, 600 million, which will probably remain, in this case, in the case of the one who will issue the certificate. This certificate and the certificate shall be called a veterinary certificate. Therefore, please reconsider and decide to delete Article 9. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u200	My friend, mag. Kramberger, behind him colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, we have spent a lot of time on this marriage, as I originally said. We convinced each other, and we always stay on the same shores. And I find that some colleagues just don't understand the point of this law. And the points of control. In terms of protection, i.e. in terms of healthy nutrition. This is - and now see if we read the third amendment proposed by the Government and read it carefully: feed which is a product of industrial processing containing products of animal origin, animal origin or feed additives or premixtures - these terms are explained in Article 3 in the first, third and must have a health certificate on the market. For my sake, let it be written so that no one gets in the way. I don't know who you want, Franceta, Loyzet, I don't know who's in the way. It's about control. The Minister shall then prescribe more precise conditions for the issue, content and form of the veterinary certificate referred to in the preceding paragraph. This amendment and this article are therefore given on the basis of a decision of the European Commission, which we have also had the opportunity to see. And some people, they understand it differently than others. And when the representatives of the association write to me on the committee, those who interfere with this terrible interference as a consumer and also as a farmer, not just as an MP, I can ask them why it bothers them. So far, there has been no control, and now all of a sudden everything is wrong with this control. However, it is not necessary for veterinarians to control this, to control, I don't know, pharmacists if you want. Only control has to be - that's what this is about. And this ton check is based on today's regulation - a regulation bearing the date 23.5.2001. 39-75 tolls a ton. That's the control. That's how much this control costs. And the rotation, of course, must be registered. And we can't agree to these cheap arguments that farmers will have to pay for all this again. If, of course, the mixer does not "eat" those 75 tolars, as it is called, it will charge the farmer. But for 75 tolars after this regulation, we will put on the weight of whether this feed will be the product of industrial processing and will contain animal protein, so that we do not need control here, which is our decision. I think that this control is for the benefit of such a farmer and ultimately for the benefit of those who produce this feed. So you could say, "That's the feed that's medically appropriate." I think it's in the interest of all of us. Probably not - after how many letters and how many cases were said when interested representatives of the Chamber of Economics, when they also stated that they would do anything to ensure that this law would not be adopted. And then I started thinking in person why they were doing it. So now there was no control - what did they do now, if that's the case? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u202	The list of applicants has been significantly extended at this time. I suggest that the lively debate that has taken place on the Committee should not be repeated at the National Assembly. I propose that the outcome be brief and that the vote decide how it is with the arguments. At the end of the day, the minister will speak. First he has the word of his colleague Juban, then his colleague Weber, then his colleague Sok in order. First of all, colleague Juban
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This Article 9 will show how anti-biocratic we are - as we have predicted in the explanation of the groups of Members - or how much we are not. This is not about restricting control, but it is about a document that complicates the feed production process. This is a veterinary certificate that is supposed to be issued - I don't know from whom and in what way - and would be a manufacturing process because we're talking about industrially processed feed, these are mixers where the input raw material is on the one hand, for example, corn, barley, oats. If we were to accept the amendment of Comrade Rokavac, that part would not be controlled. It is now controlled in the manner referred to in Article 28, where you have the responsibility of the feed inspector in the 17 paragraphs. This is a new job that we have never had in this country, and there are people who will work exclusively with feed and will monitor quality feed standards. Second part: feed additives in a mixing plant, in a factory where the feed is produced in bags or in bulk comes from domestic factories, at the level of the pharmaceutical industry or from imports. At the border we have two inspectors, a veterinary inspector or an official veterinarian, who in 12 items has the tasks of health control of feed, and a feed inspector who has the responsibility to control feed in seventeen items. Do these two get a certificate at the border that the vet is talking about? The health certificate must monitor each consignment of animal feed at the border, because otherwise it must not cross the border. And these two are monitoring whether this document really exists. Kopride material across the border, the official veterinarian shall record the notification that the consignment has crossed the border, shall make a record of the removal of the sample, the consignment shall be stopped and until there is a sample or result, when the veterinary administration, through the service, authorises the circulation of such, possibly problematic, feeds forward to the mixing room. This is the first airtight control material coming across the border [[Like, fish flour, recorded milk powder, and I don't know what else, a vitamin-mineral mixture.]] . When the feed comes into the blender, the technologist, the veterinarian or the agronomist - I apologize, this is essential - it can only interfere with what is legally allowed, meat-bone flour must not. The minister prescribes what the bag should contain, the inscription, or he can add what he wants. However, the law lays down basic rules on what the Minister must prescribe, which must be evident on the bag, including the full nutritional value and ingredients, which is important. The check referred to in Articles 27 and 28 shall be re-established from the mixing room. On the one hand, the official veterinarian who controls the raw materials, the procedure, the vehicle, the storage, to the animals as long as the feed is fed, and then health surveillance. On the other hand, there is a feed inspector - the other, not the one on the border, this is the other person - exclusively for feed, which again controls quality standards. Look, they both have exactly the same description of the works and tasks, only one of them is doing medical surveillance, the other quality surveillance. Within the two inspectors, the whole production process, the industrial production of feed to animals and animal nutrition can be controlled. Between these two, however, another veterinary certificate should be produced, confirming that what they all control is true. I think this document is too much and we need to support the amendment of the committee to delete the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u204	My colleague Weber, also you and everyone behind you a warning: not too extensive to explain opinions, although I know this may be necessary to clarify. However, the Committee has extensively discussed the professional dilemmas, and the National Assembly must only politically sever those that have remained. Please, colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. Well, I would actually object if this article were deleted, if there was no control over the feed. Actually, that doesn't hold. In fact, the control of the feed and the issue of the certificate provided for in this Article 9 is already provided for in the Veterinary Act. Article 35 speaks of this, and we are merely duplicating this provision in Article 9, if we simply write it down. However, what is the essence of this article is that neither the feed law nor the veterinary law prescribes a more detailed condition or even any condition on the health of the feed. This is left to the minister, both in the Veterinary Act and in the Feeding Act. Since this is a special feeding law, I would expect that these conditions will be stated in this law, but not that there is a duplication of a diction in the veterinary law, which says something that one certificate must be, and how this certificate arises, and no one has said at this stage in the adoption of the feed law. This article is essentially unnecessary because it already solves with the same content of control of feed - and the issue of the certificate has been confirmed by the veterinary law; but we miss, I repeat, the criteria that we know how we can get someone to issue that is medically appropriate feed. We've been essentially pointing out the whole time how someone's going to issue a certificate if they don't have anything to do with it. It can be written, but you have to monitor some manufacturing process, you have to have some lab tests, probably, and then eventually you issue a certificate. Whether a vet will be an integral part of this manufacturing process is a question to which there was no answer, etc. These are the dilemmas. By rejecting all the indications that have been, in fact, put in this direction, that if this article is deleted, there will be no control. The supervision is, however, provided for in this Act on the exercise of control in Article 26 and beyond, because it speaks of the fact that supervision is carried out with inspection services and also specifies all these procedures. However, I would like to point out that we will probably have some kind of certificate that will be difficult to issue, and this is this problem that needs to be solved, and if we already have something written in one law, which is difficult to implement, why should we write it in two. That is why I do not support this article or feel that it is unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Comrade Sok, after you, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u207	Thank you. Once again, I would like to say that I will not be misunderstood. So if this matter is already resolved in another law, then I also share an opinion with you, Mr Weber. And then let's say we don't cheat, it's not necessary - why would we cheat? But here are government representatives who will be able to respond if this is really resolved in this way. I don't think so. But I'm asking your next question. Look. If it does occur in practice, let's say that poultry growers, say poultry, get a rudder and it's a rudder - I don't know, we've talked earlier about the toxins on the spores, etc., which is why there's a big failure in breeding, that he's got a lot of death. If he does not have a certificate to prove in court that he will be able to prove the health claim of the feed he lawfully bought on the market - I say not. Maybe they can help me out here from legal work if he makes it. So far, all such procedures, as far as I know, have failed in court.They simply fell because they did not have documentation to prove that he had been sold health-friendly feed. But as for what my colleague Juban was talking about, about this traffic, how it's going. Well, I've spoken myself out of experience, not so much in mind. So, from experience, I was talking about how it was possible for a mixed room in the Centre near Drava, which is in the Ormož municipality, to sell, not in a refusion or I don't know, tons, but in a small-scale process, in the small-border traffic of individual bags: I don't know - 50, but also less than 10 kilograms, 20 kilograms for chickens; because that's where people from the neighbouring country go. You know, for our inspection, it's not meticulous what this client has to do with himself. When he leaves the country, you can let him go without anything, but the Croatian inspection demanded a single confirmation. I know this is what they asked me to do because I was involved in this process. But we have not been able to give them such certificates under our legislation in the manner proposed here. I propose a veterinary certificate or other document prescribed; which, however, should be decided by the Minister. It is important that he does not make unnecessary and unnecessary costs. I really don't know what we'd do. Consider all these matters if this article is deleted in this way. Or we may have some opportunity until the third reading to arrange and round up this article in a meaningful way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u208	Mr. Secretary, your word. You're the last one on the list, then we'll decide. Please come to the hall of colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Now there is probably some confusion that I think is worth clearing up or clarifying. The point of Article 9 is to issue an appropriate veterinary certificate for each series, as we are talking about an amendment to Article 9. So not for every bag. For the show. Then, in the next series, the same veterinary certificate must be obtained again. This means: the certificate is issued by an official veterinarian pursuant to Article 9, because otherwise it is not clear on its own that an employed veterinarian will actually write it as an inspector there or, of course, be equally understood or equally perceptible. This means that I personally think, and the government has thought so too, but it comes from all together that the amendment to Article 9 is not supported. This means that Article 9 remains because, as has already been said, if we do not have an official certificate issued by an official veterinarian, I am not talking about a veterinarian who is employed in a particular organisation, but in this case we have only confidence that - for example - everything made in accordance with procedures and regulations and regulations could, in the opposite context, be too much of a risk in these risky times. If we had estimated that all of this had already been resolved in other laws or by-laws, then we would not have proposed Article 9 as it is. And maybe it really looked like violence and something that means new and new costs, which accumulates and accumulates in this Slovenian production. However, I think we need to take into account that it is increasingly clear that consumer confidence in the integrity of food - but here we are talking about the whole chain, from field to table - is the basic and best form of agricultural subsidies, that is to say, for the great benefit of producers. Therefore, even subsidisation or any favourable or in any case more favourable outcome of negotiations than is indicated now, it also makes no real sense if consumers do not buy food. For this reason, I propose not to support the amendment to Article 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u210	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Anyone else want a word? My colleague Weber wants to replicate his colleague Sok, then his colleague Kramberger and colleague Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u211	I'd just like to add my colleague Sok to what happens if someone is in court and then has the paperwork or not. This law resolves this by keeping records of all stages of production or storage and preparation for the market and other data that ensure the integrity and traceability of the product and must be kept for at least three years. So it's guaranteed. So anyone who places on the market a feeder must, in fact, keep at least three years all this data, which also proves traceability and integrity. But I think it's that period that probably ensures that any questions can be resolved in a very clear way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u212	Replics cause new replicas. I'm not sure this is important for decision-making. Of course I'll give you my word, but I'd like to ask for a short performance. First the replicas, colleague Sok and colleague Juban, then was it a replica? [[...]] Replica, colleague Kramberger, then colleague Sok. First, my buddy Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to refer to my colleague to the Vice-President of the Committee on Agriculture, my colleague Gezi Juban, or to correct him in the statement. Comrade Gez, you gave a nice, visual account of how the raw materials are coming into the plant and how they're coming out of it. You said it was also in the plant - so it must be under this law whether it is an agronomist or a zootechnician, a chemist or not, which we wrote in this law; that is, an expert who will be as a technologist in this plant. Then what is the content of this amendment is that when the feed is mixed from all those raw materials that have come into the plant that already have a certificate - I cannot agree with this that the technologist who is paid by the owner of the mixed room, who works for the money that is there in the service, that he is the one who will sign that and that archive document, which will be stored somewhere for three years, is the bond document that the buyer will take, that is, the trade or the individual who will feed his animals with it. This is the point of this, and we are not talking about all feed, but we are talking about feed, which is a product of industrial processing and which contains products of animal origin, we are talking about only this compound of feed, not all feed. The one who doesn't have it won't contain it, the feed will go "so" to the animal, so to the buyer and to the breeder. That's how I understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u214	Comrade Juban, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u215	First of all, Mr Minister, you have the possibility in Article 4 that this part, which is listed here, speaks of the label, quantity, manufacturer and - this is important - raw materials, nutrients or additives, etc. Genetically altered, we know they're banned so far. And or feed in transport is accompanied by a document the content of which is prescribed by the Minister - this is the document in which everything is blocked. If you look at the penal provisions on page 14: nutritional value, if declared, I do not know how many energy units and the official inspector, or agricultural or veterinary, both samples can be taken; one for quality standards and one for health. If the feed inspector does not have a professional who has not had one, he finds that it does not meet the quality standards, that the energy value - say 10% lower - is paid by the company 500 000 to 10 million fines. Will he afford to make such a mistake as to risk such a punishment? And the feed inspector, who will have five or six mixers in his region, can control them every day and night. It can visit and control them every day and take samples; the veterinary part can also be used where the raw materials of animal origin are. As for the paper itself, for someone to issue a document, a certificate, one farm that feeds 100,000 pigs a day, 300 tons; it means that this is a continuous process like in a car factory where the input raw materials of corn, the industry fed, which then goes on to the farm firehouse and we should stop this process so that I don't know what to do: take samples, put them in a laboratory, store feed for seven days and then send them on. I think if I was the process of issuing a document, they would interfere. However, in order to see only the papers, whether what I have here in my hands is true, when the first certificate goes over the border, the second ban on the shipment, the third analysis and then the re-analysis, if we accepted this provision of Article 9, they would stop the whole process and, because of the organisation of the work, would strongly encourage production and make life miserable for the blenders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u216	My friend Sok has the floor. No one is reported behind him, and I ask that he remain so, because we will vote on who gets the majority. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u217	Yeah. I would like to tell Mr Webru that the food in the establishments where it is produced is accompanied by a very accurate record, to be precise. However, these foodstuffs must have an appropriate certificate on the market. To find out - exactly what the minister said - that you can figure out what series those foods were produced in, or there could be a mix-up. And this paper, this document, of course, protects both the manufacturer and the consumer in the event that a judicial judgment is reached, which of the parties to the proceedings is the one who is right. By deleting this, you will not do much of a service: not one, not the other.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Anybody else want a word? Then I conclude the debate. Before making a decision, colleague Kacin wishes to explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When it comes to choosing between the position of the government and the committee of the National Assembly, Members are always embarrassed about what to do, especially because the government is ours, ours of all, and especially when it comes to coalitions. I have listened carefully to all these discussions by the Minister, explaining all these embarrassments and dilemmas. My understanding is that the people's occupation on behalf of the government is wrong. This is where Minister Dimovski should sit, who is responsible for his work. Because a marriage could be called the Veterinary Employment Act. However, such a law could not be included in the procedure, and such a law would be discriminatory to other job seekers. That is why I have decided that I cannot support the Government's position and will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? I think we're in the voice-explanatory phase. Yes, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u221	Thank you for your word. I will support the amendment of the committee, for at least three reasons. First of all, because it means the basic Article 9 total distrust of the mixers. Secondly, since it means Article 9 and the amendment to Article 9 of the full evaluation of the feed inspection which this law has just established. Thirdly, since it means acceptance or amendment or article 9 of additional non-competitiveness, both mixing plants and agriculture as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I will support the amendment of the government, the third amendment. Explains why I'm going to back him up. I'm not going to back him up because I've said this before. I would have found the following, which, Madam Vice-President, you did not find that colleague Jelko Kacin abused the Institute of Voting Explanation. And I must say, Comrade Jelko, this is a low and rude end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Mr. Sok, Mr. Onion, then Mr. Jerovšek. Just a minute. Procedural proposal. Mr. Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u225	Madam Vice President! Please remind your colleague, because it is not possible to replicate the explanation. And the evidence of who misused anything in this Rules of Procedure is possible, but the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is within the purview of the President and that is you. Therefore, it seems to me that my colleague has exceeded his authority to replicate where this is not possible, so I would like to ask you procedurally to remind him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u226	Thank you very much. My dear colleague, because I was just at the time of the drafting of the documents, because we have changed the President's presidency, I sincerely apologize to you for not following your debate closely, and in fact I would find it very difficult to make an assessment. So accept my apology for not following your statements in such a way as to be able to make quality decisions about who is more or less in breach of the rules of procedure. I think Mr. Onion now has an explanation for his vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you very much. I think it would be a correct and correct assessment of the procedure for the adoption of the law itself, so that this would not be a quick procedure. In part, I agree with Mr Kacin as well as with the debaters on my left and, of course, also with Mr Juban in relation to Article 9 of the same law. The point is that everyone has something right in short, but given that the process is a quick process and there is no time, clearly, to harmonise the right dictatorship, because this 9th article - and in short this law, is very important - but this conflict between coalitions arises. And that's why I agree with Mr. Kacin in part. Of course, I cannot vote for the amendment itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Done - Mr Jerovšek, I apologize. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you very much. I cannot support this article myself if I stepped into the Chamber in time, I would also oppose Article 8, but we are not. But look. I do not understand simply the preparers and also the virtues that have a considerable impact on this - veterinary - that it is working with all the crevices to legislate such conditions in legislation so that those from whom they live will perish in good time. That's what you say, cattlemen. All of this, if this remains in law, leads to the fact that we will no longer have livestock in Slovenia in time. Although we will have very strict regulations and laws, under such conditions farmers will not be able to live. And I think the only thing that matters is that this article is deleted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving to a vote on the first amendment to Article 9, with a footnote, of course, if adopted, the amendments under order number 2 and 3 are irrelevant. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present. The vote was 38 to 13. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and thus the article is deleted. We turn to the discussion and decision on Article 10 and the amendment of the Government to this Article by noting that the amendment is related to Article 12 under order number 4 to Article 14, under order number 2 to Article 17, under order number 2 to Article 27 and Article 28, amendments to which Mr Rokavec is proposing and to Article 41 under order number 1. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 10. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 10 has been amended. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments that are related and I have listed them earlier. First of all, I am putting to the debate the fourth amendment to Article 12, in order number 4, on page 8 of the amendment review, the proposed amendment is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 4. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the second amendment to Article 14, on page 9 of the review, the amendment's proposal is the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the second amendment to Article 17, on page 11 of the review, the amendment's proposal is the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us now move on to the amendments proposed by Mr. Rokavec [[they're not in the review, they're on the table.]] . I am putting to the debate an amendment to Article 27, of which Mr Rokavec, as I have already said, is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? Because he doesn't want to, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am also putting an amendment to Article 28 in the debate and decision-making process, and I am also proposing to Franci Rokavec. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 50 votes against 1. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment under order number one to Article 41. It is on the 20th page of the amendment review, the amendment's proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're going back to page 7 of the amendment review. In the debate and decision-making I give Article 11 and the two amendments to this Article: under one is the amendment of the Government, also under order number two, with the footnote that the amendment under one is related to the amendment to Article 16 under order number one. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment under one. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment is adopted under one. We're still deciding on an amendment under two. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving to page eleven. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting an amendment under number one in order to Article 16, the proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting in debate and decision 12 paragraphs and 5 or four amendments because we have already decided on one. The proposed amendment under one is the government, under order number 2, Mr Sok, under the 3rd government, we have already decided on the amendment under 4 and the amendment under 5 is proposed by the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 46 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment under Article 1 to 12 has been adopted. However, since this is linked, as you can see in the footnote, to amendments to some other articles, we will first vote on these amendments. In order to discuss and decide, I first place the Government's amendment to Article 12 under order number 3. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting the Government's amendments under Article 1 to 15. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment under order number 3 to Article 16. Anybody want to talk? The government's amendment. Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the decision-making and debate on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 17. The proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 18. The proposer is the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. From the examination, we are moving on to the amendments of Mr Rokavac. Since this adopted amendment is also linked to the amendment of Mr Rokavac to Article 37, I am putting an amendment to Article 37 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Back to the amendment review, page 8. We decide on the second amendment to Article 12. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the fifth amendment to Article 12, of which the Government is proposing [[we have already voted on the third and fourth]] . We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 44 present. I think there's more of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention. Second, we decide on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting. Since this is the second time we have not carried out a valid vote, I am putting an end to this work in ten minutes. We will continue at 5:13 p.m. when we vote on Article 12 in full for the third time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u231	Respectable, respectable! The time is 17.13 minutes, this is the time when we announced that we would vote on Article 12 in full for the third time. Please, if you'll join us. This is the third time we have voted on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 13 and on the two amendments to this Article. Under order number one is the amendment of the committee and under two is announced withdrawal. There's an amendment to the government under two. Of course, with footnote one, if the amendment is adopted under one, the amendment under order number two is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 14 and only on the amendment to the government's amendment because we have already adopted it. I am putting an amendment to the Government's amendment and Article 14 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 15 and on the two amendments. Since the amendment has already been adopted under one, under two there is an amendment to the amendment of the government, the proposed amendment of which is the committee, and under three the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under two - the amendment to the amendment. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present, 44 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 16 and only on an amendment under order number 2, of which Aloise Sok is the proposer. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 17 as a whole; we have adopted amendments under headings 1 and 2. Who wants to discuss the whole article? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the Article. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 18 and only on amendment under Article 1 here. The amendment is proposed by the government. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under Article 1 to 18. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 45 present. I think there's enough of us in the hall, so I'd like some more attention. Second, we decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 20 and the amendment of the proposaler Alojz Sok to this article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Just for a moment to explain the importance of this amendment. The second paragraph of Article 20 lists the authorised laboratories. This Article states that approved laboratories are test laboratories, official testing laboratories and reference laboratories. If we read this article to the end, we can see from this article that some official significance of testing or laboratory work is limited to official testing laboratories and reference laboratories. However, this, it is said to be a test, internal laboratory must meet all the conditions as well as the reference and official test. For this reason, I propose in my amendment that the word "test" be deleted in the second paragraph of Article 20. And that's because this lab, the tests, the analyses of this lab don't have any legal functions. So it's just a lab that's testing an internal control that doesn't have to use the officially prescribed method for this test. Unfortunately, on the board, this amendment of mine has not received adequate support, but I think it is wrong for us to create as many as three types of different laboratories. This is completely inappropriate. I therefore propose that this amendment be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision, first of all, the amendment. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, with 14 votes against 33. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 45 of us present. I think there really are more of us in the hall. There's only half an hour's work ahead of us, so I'm asking for your attention. Second, we decide on Article 20 as a whole. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, with 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 21 and on the two amendments. The first is Aloyz Sok and the second is the Government, with a note, if the amendment is adopted under one, the amendment under order number two is irrelevant. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u234	Thank you very much. There was a lot of talk on this article in the committee itself. All in turn agreed that this feed world is too large, so we are very happy to talk in this Parliament about rationalising costs, about what all burdens our agriculture. For this reason, Section 9 of this Law was also deleted, which I do not think is wise, but, well, so you decided most of it. Well, here we are now implementing some kind of feeding world, I think, with a lot of over-representatives. I would expect the feeding council to be composed of experts, not politicians, as indicated here. I don't know why ministries in this world have to have their representatives, but when this feed council is just some kind of consultative body of the minister, and in fact it has no executive duties and functions. This world gives only some opinions, non-binding opinions, but, of course, as it is composed, for the Ministry itself will be a very expensive matter. I announced on the committee that I would withdraw this amendment because I know there is no way I could succeed. Now, if I may, I am withdrawing this amendment. Do I have to do this in writing?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you very much. You can also remove it orally. We consider the amendment, Mr. Sok, withdrawn. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u236	I agree with my colleague Sok's position that we have an amendment under number 2, the article remains open, and if we are seriously willing to reduce the number of representatives of the Council from 14, I do not know, to 5, then we can write an amendment until the third reading, which will reduce the number of unnecessary members of the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u238	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Look, I feel pretty bad when Mr. Sok announced the withdrawal of this amendment. The fact is that every law in the field of agriculture draws the creation of a single world, from the veterinary board to the feeding council, then we have a livestock world when we go to see the number of members, is as many as any world in the law as it is in the law. [[...]] The last paragraph of this Article also states that the financial, spatial and human resources conditions for the functioning of the Council shall be provided by the Ministry. Never, nor have we ever received an answer as to how much such a world, such as a veterinary or a feeding world, costs our taxpayers or all of us. And I would very much like to join Mr Juban's opinion that we should leave the article open and think carefully, but once we have finished with these saints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. Since Mr Sok has withdrawn his amendment under number one, we are deciding on an amendment under order number two of which the Government is proposing. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 22 and the amendment under order number 2 to this article, of which the Government is proposing [[The amendment of the committee under number 1 has already been adopted]] . Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 25 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the amendment. There are 47 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Articles 26 and three amendments to this Article. Under 1 is the amendment of Aloys Sok, and under 2 and 3 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to explain the amendment under order number one. At the moment, we have control of the feed in Slovenia so that quality control is exercised by agricultural inspectors. This law, however, introduces a new inspection, namely the feed control inspectors. I do not know for what reason, at least if it were explained in the very explanation in this law, why it is inappropriate for this task to continue to be carried out by the agricultural inspection. In this way, we are duplicating our services, introducing new bureaucracy and, of course, the related costs for the state budget or, more precisely, for the Ministry of Agriculture. Now, of course, we're going to start a new inspection service that won't have enough work to do. I must say that the production of feed in Slovenia is not at the same level as in the countries of the European Union, where, of course, these establishments are much larger than we are. With us a little while longer with this concentration, we may have all three or four high-powered mixers in Slovenia. At this point, we are introducing a new inspection service and, at the same time as the proposal in this regard, we are withdrawing a phytosanitary inspection or replacing it with a new inspection service. I do not think that this is necessary and I propose to all those who have so advocated the costs of Article 9 to support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much. I cannot help but answer the criticism of my opening act with this question, which I will repeat again. The point is that several times I was told or suggested that I fill something up. Since I don't have official numbers or official information, I don't have any left. I said in the opening recital, "I don't know if you're gonna have to hire 100, 150 or 200 new inspectors." In the fourth chapter of the financial and other consequences of the interpretation of the law, and also in the article to which the amendment is now under consideration, it clearly speaks of the establishment of a new inspection service or the establishment of a new inspector, the feed inspector. I'm curious, I think at this point, given that they're ready or they're already coming out of law enforcement, we should know, on the basis of this law, how many new jobs there are going to be in this service, which is called a feed inspector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u244	Now we're there. If they accepted that certificate, they would probably have experts at several locations who would issue these certificates, and now they are, by chance, a feed inspector, who will still cover a number of locations. I therefore agree with you that this new service may not be necessary and that the agricultural inspection could also monitor the quality of the feed, with all the analysis procedures, etc. Only one article is understepped, Comrade Sok, then all the following articles should also be amended, which speak of the feed inspector. Then it means that we make the law incompatible and the matter will not work. Maybe I'm interpreting what the government should be interpreting. I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you very much. And a word, Mr. Sok, and then Mrs. Chadonic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u246	Well, that's of course, Mr. Juban, a bad excuse for that. I will not vote in favour of this amendment, because not all the other members have been amended, because we know these amendments, which then editorially correct the matter before the final adoption. I would like to say, however, that today, highly qualified agricultural inspectors within the Ministry of Agriculture walk on the stables and count the cattle and watch the ears as we call them - numbers if they are properly placed on the left and right side and if the number in the logbook and in the ear matches. This is what agricultural inspectors are doing today to a large extent. I wonder what kind of country it is that highly qualified people - many of them are also masters - are used in this way to count among our farmers, whether the farmer has applied for five or six cattle for direct payments. It would be better if they were used for such matters as food control, production traffic and not to introduce any new inspection services. I understand that. Someone at the Ministry of Agriculture needs to run an office and some people need to be hired there, and immediately some service will be exposed to some influential, cliently February.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u247	Thank you very much. Mrs. Chadian. Just a moment, a replica, Mr. Juban, then I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u248	Comrade Sok only has so many replicas. It is true that agricultural inspectors control these numbers, and we both know the requirement that these numbers be inserted by certified veterinarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Chadonian.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u250	Thank you so much for saying that. It's only right to explain what we meant by these feed inspectors. We really didn't mean new jobs. And that we really didn't think so, evidence in pre-law is justified by financial and other consequences, which clearly states that there will be no new employment. Secondly, Article 26 on control states that controls will be carried out by food control inspectors operating within the framework of the agricultural inspectorate. It is only that these inspectors will specialize in obtaining the necessary knowledge of the control of feed, as set out in Article 3 of this Act. This is said to be just an additional education for the agricultural inspectors, whom Mr Sok meant. So we would really ask that it remain as it is written in the law or as it is in the amendments. The government cannot therefore support the amendment of Ambassador Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u251	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u252	Well, I have to thank the Secretary of State for the first time I've found out that you need to come up with another name for some kind of inspection so you can send them away for extra education. Really, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u253	Thank you very much. Since there are no more debaters, I conclude the debate. We move on to decision-making, first of all to amendment under order number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 17 to 30. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the amendment under number one has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number three. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. There were 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 37 to 8. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Since we have voted two amendments to Articles 27 and 28, we must also vote on these two articles in full. We decide on Article 27 as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We decide on Article 28 as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 29 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 44 of us present. We did not succeed in the first vote. May I have your attention, please? In the hall, I think we've had enough. Secondly, we decide on Article 29 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 30 and the two amendments of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision first on the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're still deciding on an amendment under two. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 34 and on the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 4. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 36 and on the eight amendments to this Article. These are all government and committee amendments. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision first on the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number two. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number three. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 52 votes against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 3 has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number four. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under 5. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 45 votes against 4. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number six. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on amendment number seven. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the amendment under 8. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 37 and on the three amendments to this Article. The amendment under 1 of which the government is the proposer has withdrawn. I am therefore putting to the debate the amendments of the Government under paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 and 37. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to an amendment under two. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under four. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 37 as a whole. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 38 and on the four amendments to this article: one is the amendment of the government, two is the amendment, the amendment of which is proposed by Mr Franci Rokavec - I apologize, under two we will vote on this amendment - under order number two in the review is the amendment of the government and under three equally the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? No.) We're moving on to decision-making. First, we are voting on the amendment under one in the review. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We now vote on the amendment of Mr. Rokavac. We're voting. There are 36 present. I think it's a quiet process because I mislabelled Mr. Rokavec's amendment. We will vote on Mr Rokavac's amendment after we vote on the amendment under order number two. Mr. Gasparini, thank you very much for your warning. We are voting on the amendment under order number two, this is the government's amendment to Article 38. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving to a vote on the amendment, which is proposed by Mr Rokavec. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the amendment under order number 3 in the review, this is about the amendment of the government. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 39 and the two amendments of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all the amendment under number one. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Since the amendment to Article 40 has been withdrawn by the Government, we are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 41 and the two amendments to this Article, sorry, on the four amendments to this Article. The first amendment, number one, has already been decided. Under number 2, 3 and 5 are the amendments of the government and under number 4 are the amendments to the amendment of the committee. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number three. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment to the amendment, under number 4. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under number five. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have held a debate on the amendments tabled and are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, very many amendments to the various articles were adopted. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so or, of course, notify this intention now. In this case, we're going to break this point at this point. We already have one third-reading amendment. If you'd like to make more amendments, I ask Mr. Juban, please. [[...]] Is there anyone involved? Mr Geza, if I may sum up your proposal to stop at this point, because qualified candidates will prepare amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u254	I don't need any more.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-31-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u255	If you agree, please ask qualified candidates to prepare amendments by 10 a.m. tomorrow for the third reading if they intend to continue the consideration of the amendments in the third reading at 10 a.m. tomorrow. I thank the representatives of the government and representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. Your Honor, I interrupt the 9th item of the agenda in the third reading. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the 9th stop on the agenda. Thank you all very much. Then we'll move on to the 10th point, and then we'll move on. Thank you very much.
