ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues! Can I invite you all to the big debate room again? I'd like to begin the 19th extraordinary session as soon as possible. We have a lot of work to do this week. Once again, even because of the people accompanying our work, that the convening of an extraordinary meeting does not mean that this is an emergency. It is a matter of seeking a business opportunity for the National Assembly to do as much as possible in these months, when we need to speedily coordinate our legislation with Europeans. So I'm asking you to come to the hall. Please colleagues - 5 minutes after 2:00 is - to come to the hall. Please insert the cards into the voting devices so that we have close control of our presence. Colleagues and colleagues, I will determine the presence in the hall! I'd like to ask you again if you'd be so kind. Insert the voting cards into the voting devices. Before I begin my 19th extraordinary session, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, I would like to inform you which of our colleagues and colleagues may not participate in the work of the National Assembly for reasons of restraint. These are colleagues Rokavec, Peterle, Gerencher, colleague Jakič at 3 p.m., colleague Kavtičnik, from 5 p.m. on will not be a colleague of Kopuzar. At the beginning of the meeting, a colleague of Partljič would not be present. Otherwise, our colleagues, Švagan, Terchón and Kontic, will be absent. Now, please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Is it wrong? It's not working? Several colleagues point out that there is something wrong with the voting devices. Could the technical services please come to the hall immediately? Is he okay? Can you see if everyone burns the lights on the card? Is he all right now? May I have your attention, please? One more time. This is the first time I've ever seen a presence in the hall! Please. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! Please press the "quorum" button. Everything all right now, buddy Merlo? Comrade Juban, are you all right? 55 present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. There are also two ministers with us, the Secretary of State; I welcome all representatives of the government. First, of course, we will set the agenda for the 19th extraordinary session. You received it, the proposal, by reference to 9 May this year. We will decide in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64. First, we'll move on to motions for withdrawal. I have not received such proposals, colleagues and colleagues. Does anyone have such a proposal in the session itself? I find that this is not how we can move on to enlargement proposals. I also did not receive proposals for the extension. I'm guessing they're not in the session either. That way we can move on to the decision on the agenda as you received by reference. And I am putting this proposal to the vote. I'm sorry. I'm calling off the vote. You want to explain your voice?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u2	I want to change the agenda. Is that possible?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I suggest that point 17. - a proposal for a consultative referendum on the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO liaison should be classified as item 1 of the agenda. I believe that the integration of our country with the North Atlantic Union in the long term can be said to be a historic decision that goes beyond our mandates, with four-year mandates. We should have such an important debate right now, or I can't imagine how we want to go to NATO, and we don't even want to discuss this point. Otherwise, I trust Mr President, when we have discussed that, in the case of a point, we could place a point a little earlier, but the work so far, the over-consumed work of this National Assembly does not promise me this. By proposing an amendment to the agenda, item 17, as item 1 of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u5	I didn't mean to interrupt you, Comrade Levich. We'll decide the agenda first. Then the National Assembly decides on priority. If anyone proposes moving the proposed points, we will therefore do so after the decision and also continue the discussion you started. So, first of all, if no one else wants a word, I propose a vote on the agenda, and then we will decide on which point your proposal will also be considered. I shall put the draft agenda to the vote. I'm asking you to plead for him. 58 present. 38 for, 10 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the National Assembly has adopted the agenda for an extraordinary meeting. Now we continue with the adjourned debate opened by my colleague Levič. First of all, I would like to say that - so you were informed also by letter dated 26 April - the assembly will meet today, tomorrow and Thursday, all the days between 2 p.m. and 7 p.m. We have agreed on the proposal made by my colleague Levič, both informally today with the chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, colleague Kacin, as well as with the College. This proposal was forwarded to the College, and we have exchanged some opinions on it. As President, I have also proposed and decided that the President or Head of the National Assembly, who will chair the meeting these three days, should also consider this item of the agenda so that it does not be postponed to the very beginning of the decision today. It is, of course, important here, perhaps even decisively the opinion of the Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Policy, as the report is not yet ready for decision. Please, President, if I may have a word with you. My friend Katsin
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u6	My opinion is not decisive. It is a decisive decision of Members and Members whether or not they support this procedural proposal. It's true, President, what you just said is that the report has not yet been completed, but will be completed in the course of today. More importantly, two conclusions were adopted by the mother’s working body when it addressed this item on the agenda. The second decision is to ask the President of the National Assembly to invite the President of the State to this point in his capacity as Commander-in-Chief, who should also address the National Assembly in this regard. For these additional reasons, I find it somewhat unrealistic to expect the Youth Party to discuss this issue today. I therefore propose that this procedural proposal should not be accepted, but that it should be clearly defined when this point should be considered. All I can do is share the content of our conversation, and we were thinking about agreeing on Thursday at 2 p.m. at the beginning of the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u7	Before we vote on the procedural proposal, let me just say this. Mr Kacin, Chairman of the Committee, has already mentioned that, among other things, his Committee, the Committee on Foreign Policy, has adopted a decision to invite the President of the State. I was also formally informed about this proposal today. The President's invitation has been granted. I also spoke to him on the phone to warn him early enough that he would be invited, but of course his decision was whether he would take the invitation to the meeting. I will now, because this is a procedural proposal, put my colleague Levič's proposal - if I understand correctly, this is a proposal from the entire parliamentary group - to the vote. And your proposal is, Comrade Levič, to address this point? [[...]] Please take into account, Comrade Levič, the fact that the report is not yet ready so that the National Assembly does not wait today for the report to be prepared.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u8	As we have already announced, we have requested a postponement to the 1st item of the agenda and we insist on doing so. Besides, I know the board's got a lot of work to do, but I think the board was on Thursday, Wednesday, so we can prepare. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Well, let me just warn the National Assembly, if we're going to accept your proposal, we're going to have to postpone the session. Your proposal that the National Assembly should therefore classify this item as item 1 of the agenda, I shall put it to the vote. We're voting, please. 60 present, 7 voted in favour, 48 against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposal has not been adopted. However, I would like to say that, in accordance with the agreement with the Vice-President and both Vice-Presidents, we will be careful to address this point in the context of this meeting. So, we've decided to set the agenda as a priority. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act. This law is introduced by a rapid procedure. He was presented to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I invite the Minister of Defence, Dr Grizold, to present the proposal for a law. You've raised your hand. You want a word procedurally? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Procedurally. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we estimate that the proposed amendments to the Defence Act are indirectly linked to the integration of Slovenia into NATO, in particular in the part concerning the deployment of Slovenian reserves to military intervention abroad. Since this National Assembly is not willing to talk about such an important decision as the referendum initiative to join NATO, the Members of the Youth Slovenia Party will obstruct this item on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u11	So you have announced obstruction; it is not my right to comment on it, so I will abstain. Minister, you have a chance to present your proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Last year, after numerous analyses of the situation in the defence system, and in particular in the Slovenian military, we adopted basic constitutional, developmental and strategic documents that set out guidelines and solutions for the transformation of the entire defence system as well as the Slovenian Armed Forces. First, in July 2001, the government adopted a programme of measures to improve the readiness of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2004, which essentially sets out guidelines in all areas of the defence system. The National Assembly adopted a resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, a general long-term programme for the equipping and development of the Slovenian Armed Forces, as well as amendments to the Basic Development Programme Act in November. On this basis, the Ministry of Defence developed the concept of transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces until 2004. However, the government has adopted a defence strategy, a civil defence doctrine and some other documents. These documents represent the whole. They are coordinated and interconnected. This is a promise that we will arrange strategic and doctrinal documents in the field of national defence. We conclude this part by proposing amendments and supplementing the law of defence. There will be an amendment to the Military Duty Act, which will also cover changes in the Army's system of replenishment, and the Material Duty Act, as you know, was passed last year. We have also prepared a proposal for amendments and amendments to the law by taking into account the laws adopted in recent years in Slovenia, such as the Police Act, the Owl Act, the Secret Data Act, and the preparation of some new regulations that will regulate the public sector. I am primarily referring to the Labour Relations Act, the Civil Servants Act and the Public Sector Salaries Act. We are of the view that the defence system should also be subject to all the rules governing the public sector, but that those issues arising from the characteristics of the defence area, particularly military organisations, should be addressed by the law on defence. The basic starting point in the drafting of the law was to include changes and additions meaningfully in the existing text, to balance this from the point of view of the development of individual institutions and to regulate the details by means of sectoral laws such as the Military Duty Act and the Material Duty Act. The bill has three parts, as you know. The first part includes the extension of the general provisions on defence, its purpose, the implementation of military defence and so on, all with the aim of providing adequate grounds for the inclusion of Slovenia in the collective defence system. The second part of the proposed changes includes a new organisation of the military, a change of powers, a complement to the system of promotion, military education, military discipline and the like. The third part of the law is mainly provisions of a legal nature which regulate the characteristics and specific requirements of professional work in the defence field and in particular in the military service which cannot be regulated by other general rules. Allow me to give some emphasis or basic characteristics, additions and changes to a particular part of the bill. In the first part of the law we have expanded, as I said before, the purpose of the defence so that the defence of the state is also realized by the integration and active participation of the State in international security relations, of course, on the basis of international treaties. The increased threat of an attack against the country is also a threat to an armed attack or armed attack against the countries with which Slovenia is an ally. An attack under this law shall be considered an attack within the meaning of Article 51 of the United Nations Charter of Fundamental Rights, which gives the affected State the right to individual or collective defence. Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations also refers to Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, which establishes a collective defence system. We have summarised these provisions by supplementing the introductory provisions in Article 3 of the bill. In particular, Article 51 of the Charter of the United Nations, Article 5 and Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty are essential. These provisions are crucial in terms of the integration and participation of the State in the collective defence system. The powers of the national assembly, governments and, of course, constitutional provisions are taken into account. If Slovenia is invited to join NATO, it will adopt international treaties. These are the 10 basics governing the fundamental relations in this organisation. With the Government's amendment to Article 30, we have further supplemented these provisions. With the Government's additional amendment on arms trafficking, we will align the law with the laws already adopted on restrictive measures against dual-use goods. We have also complemented the provisions relating to the Ministry's intelligence and security service, its area of work, and have drawn up powers transparently and rationally. This was also found by the Security and Intelligence Committee. The second part of the law stipulates that the military consists of intervention forces, main forces and complementary forces. The purpose of individual parts is also determined. The additional amendment of the Government also lays down the legal basis for the introduction of voluntary service in the military reserve. The powers of the General Staff have been changed to ensure the transfer of direct command with units to the Operations Command and the Lower Command. Part of the current powers of the Minister are transferred to the Chiefs of Staff and subordinate commanders. This applies in particular to the appointment of commanders, the decision on allocation, status issues and the like. Military service outside the State in peace and military defence is being reorganized. Military service outside the country in peace is governed by article 48a. Professionals do this job. These are military personnel and, of course, also civilians employed in the military, as well as other persons employed in the Ministry of Defence. This may be the case for those who are employed in the military for an indefinite or fixed period of time, or it may only be a contract for a particular mission. A member of a military or reserve staff may be employed on the basis of a contract for participation in individual missions for a certain period of time. During this time his legal and other rights acquired are at rest and after the mission he can return to his previous work. In this way, we have significantly expanded the opportunities for recruitment, to participate in peace-support operations. Otherwise, military service shall be carried out in peace outside the country, in particular in military diplomatic missions, in joint headquarters, bodies of international organisations and similar cases. Under the fourth paragraph of Article 48a, military bonds may also be assigned to training outside the country in peace during military service or in reserve service, provided that they are deployed into the military composition. These categories, except for training in peace, cannot be sent to military service outside the country. 48.c. Article 48.c of the draft law governs military defence outside the country. Allow me, in particular, to draw particular attention to this article due to some incomplete claims in the public media in recent days. The Article provides that, in the event of an increased risk of an attack on a country or a direct war threat, in a war or state of emergency in accordance with the Defence Act, the decisions of the National Assembly and the international treaties concluded, the military service outside the State, in addition to members of the professional composition, shall also be carried out by members of the military composition, those being reserves. In that case, several conditions must be met. First, there must be an increased risk of attack or a direct war threat for a country defined by the Defence Act or an emergency or war situation must be declared. On this basis, the National Assembly may decide to use the military. This jurisdiction gives him Section 92 of the Constitution. If the National Assembly is unable to meet, it shall be decided by the President of the Republic, who shall give the decision to confirm the State Assembly as soon as it meets. We're changing this constitutional regulation by law. The use of the military may also be decided by the National Assembly in accordance with international treaties if it does not declare a state of war, which is governed by Article 82 of the draft law. Such a provision makes sense only if the State joins the collective defence system and does not necessarily always declare itself an emergency or a war state. There must also be a condition that only those who have serviced military service and are deployed to the military are in the military. Therefore, it is not possible to send recruits to military service outside the country and it is not possible to use the military composition unless a decision has been taken previously by the National Assembly, which is once again conditional on the threat of the State. Due to changes in the completion system, it will only happen in the future that we will have two categories of reserve during the transitional period in the war. Those who will be assigned to it on the basis of their civic duties and those who will carry out the reserve service on a voluntary basis. However, this does not change the constitutional duty of citizens, provided for in Article 123 of the Constitution, which states that the defence of the State is compulsory for citizens within the borders and in the manner laid down by the law. By moving to a professional army, with a voluntary reserve, we will leave in peace the implementation of only individual elements of military duty, such as recruitment, military service and reserve service. However, military duty as a civil duty and an integral part of the country's defence duty will remain. The entire system will be put in place once the security of the state is compromised, under the conditions laid down by the Military Duty Act. In summary, the use of members of the military composition outside the State for military defence is only possible if the security of the State of Slovenia is compromised, if the National Assembly has taken or has taken a decision on the use of the military and if the State has the relevant international treaties on the basis of which it participates in the collective defence system, where the principle "all for one, one for all" applies. However, military defence does not mean cooperation, which is repeatedly mixed or used in the media, so it is not intended to participate in peace-supporting operations in which the State is already participating as a member of the United Nations or a member of the Partnership for Peace programme or in the future as a member of NATO, if of course this becomes so. Military defence is explained in the introductory provisions of the law, Article 1, paragraph 5, which states that it is a defence with weapons and other military means. Dear Members and Members! We have also updated the provisions governing military discipline. We have also complemented the provisions relating to the act and the promotion. We have aligned the groups of acts with comparable armies and have substantially sharpened the conditions for the promotion of officers and officers. There are as many as seven types of conditions that must be met for the promotion of the higher rank, which will allow the planned introduction of the career path of subcontractors and officers, and therefore we cannot support the amendment of DeSUS Members in order to further exacerbate these conditions, so that it has to run three years and not two years from the last increase. The arrangements for military personnel, who are the new category of military personnel, are similar to those for officers and officers. The previous provisions provide for the abolition of title acts within one year. The most extensive part is the third part of the law, which covers the provisions governing professional work in the defence field. The working conditions are defined more restrictively than in the current regulation. Employment contracts shall be concluded for an indefinite or fixed period of time, in the case of soldiers only for a specified period of time. The regulation is more flexible than in the existing law and the rights and obligations are complemented during the duration of the contract by extending the grounds for unilateral termination of the employer's employment contract. The law regulates the specific working conditions, working hours and distribution thereof, taking into account the characteristics of the defence work. Institutions such as the guard, the watchman, and the readiness to work that other areas do not know in such a way as the defence or the military. With regard to vacations and rests, it is possible to ensure that they do not suffer from official needs. The temporary deployment to another work and allocation to another formational duty in the military and certain specific issues such as specific hazardous works and the like is further regulated. The law does not allow for wage changes in the defence area. As one of the few countries, Slovenia will also have a union association in the defence system or in the military by law. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Amendments to the Defence Act are necessary. I thank you for supporting his handling on a rapid basis. The adoption of the law will allow us to continue the smooth transformation of the military and the implementation of its new structure this year. We do not resolve this, as I have pointed out many times, some inconsistencies in the field of human resources, which will be particularly present after the reorganisation of the military. It is a fact that we have only a symbolic number of professional soldiers, large deviations from officers and officers in terms of categories such as age, general and other military education. The reduced size of the army will also be adapted to the administrative part of the ministry, which will highlight additional discrepancies according to the number of employees. We are intensively preparing a series of solutions that we will gradually propose to the government and, if necessary, to you to address these inconsistencies in a deliberate and without negative influence on the readiness of the military. Amendments to the law cover those solutions that enable further strengthening of the permanent composition, greater flexibility in employment and the recent amendments of the government, we also propose necessary extensions for the launch of the voluntary reserve service. The direction towards a gradual transition to a professional army is defined in the documents adopted last year. However, we have also drawn up proposals for individual solutions concerning changes in the completion system decided by the Government on 25.4.2002, the final result of which will be, of course, a change in the law on military duty. In view of the above, I propose, ladies and gentlemen, that you support and adopt amendments to the Defence Act, together with the amendments of the home labour force and the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was treated by the Defence Committee as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! At its 12th meeting and following this meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia discussed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Committee was informed of the draft law, the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly and the opinion of the Commission on the supervision of the work of security and intelligence services. In the introduction, the text of the bill was presented by Minister Anton Grizold on behalf of the proposer. In doing so, the Secretariat noted that the legislative proposal is in line with Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, which means that it is sufficiently precise and sufficiently justified for a rapid procedure. The representative of the secretariat also stated in this regard that the secretariat had pointed out in its opinion some uncertainties and editorial shortcomings. After the general discussion, the members of the Committee supported the adoption of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on defence by means of a rapid procedure. The Defence Committee, on a proposal from the proposer and in accordance with the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, has adopted the following amendments to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence. A new Article 1a - amendment to the first Article, to Article 42, to Article 44 and Article 45 shall be added. Following a discussion on the articles of the draft law or amendments to each article, the Defence Committee adopted the following decision: The Defence Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to consider and adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Defence Act by means of a rapid procedure. In its opinion, however, the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly announced that it would continue to make corrections to the editorial nature in the final reference and would duly number the entries of the sub-chapters. Following the adjournment of the meeting, the Government has subsequently drafted amendments to Articles 3, 15, 27, 30, 32 and 42, which it already contains on behalf of the proposer, namely the Government, the Defence Minister has already explained the importance of these amendments with a corresponding comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups shall have the floor. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dorijan Marsič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! In the National Assembly, we have adopted a number of development and strategic documents setting out guidelines and solutions for the transformation of the defence system and in particular for the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. This includes in particular the resolution on the national security strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, the long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces for the period 2003-2007 and other documents was adopted. The Ministry has developed the concept of transformation of the Slovenian army by 2004, while the government has adopted a defence strategy and other important documents in this area. With this amendment and the addition of the Defence Act in the National Assembly, we are also finalising a project on the regulation of strategic doctrinal documents and legislation in the field of national defence. I also have here to thank the good work of Minister Grisold and his team. The following will be followed by an amendment to the Military Duty Act, in particular by an expected debate on the gradual transition to the professional army and the abolition of the recruitment system and any further discussion on Slovenia's entry into Euro-Atlantic military, political and other integrations. The latter deals with the first part of the proposed amendments, which includes the extension of the general provisions in defence and its purpose, the implementation of military defence with the aim of providing appropriate grounds for the inclusion of Slovenia in the collective defence system. Whether this is a possible NATO membership or a common European security and defence policy within the European Union. The amendments are also complemented by some vague dictions that have been pointed out by the Secretariat of the National Assembly and the Defence Committee, and we support them in our Group of Members. In particular, the amendment to Article 30, which explains in more detail the delimitations within the powers of the Government and the National Assembly concerning the participation of the Slovenian military in the preparation and tasks of joint defence under international treaties and the use of members of the reserve staff deployed to the military. A more appropriate and transparent regulation of the field of intelligence and security services, which, inter alia, re-forms provisions governing intelligence, counter-intelligence and security tasks and sets out a clear separation between intelligence and security activities, clearly defines the powers of authorised persons. The legal framework, however, lays down the electronic monitoring of international union systems and clearly defines the powers and responsibilities of the Minister of Defence and makes it possible for the competent authorities to monitor this service more easily and transparently. The set of proposed changes also includes the organisation of the military, change of powers, complementing the system of promotion, military education, military discipline and the like. In our parliamentary group, we also support the government's amendment, which introduces a new category into our defence system, namely that military service is also carried out by members of the reserve team who have concluded with the Ministry a contract of service in the reserve. However, we appeal to the Government to provide special incentives, both for members of the voluntary reserve and for their employers, by means of special conditions and ways of carrying out this service, so that they will not be placed in a less favourable position on account of their obligations and their return to work. The law introduces new provisions of a labour law which regulate the characteristics and specific requirements of professional work in the defence field and, in particular, in the military service, which cannot be regulated by general rules. We support the new management of military service outside the country in peace and in the implementation of military defence. Therefore, out-of-country military service can be performed mainly by members of the permanent, professional composition of the Slovenian Army and a decision of the National Assembly is required for members of the military. Members of the reserve or military composition may also be sent to military service outside the country in peace if they enter into a contract of employment in the Slovenian Army. So there is no fear that, at a time when the recruitment system will still exist, there will be no way to send recruits abroad, but at the same time we will allow the participation in peacekeeping operations to those citizens who have not been granted this wish so far. We support the tightening of the conditions for the promotion of officers and officers to achieve standards in Western European armies, thus achieving comparability with other armies. Certain conditions, which must be met at the same time for progress, will allow for a deliberate introduction of the career path of officers and subordinates, and above all it seems important to us, the current system of dual acts, positions and personal careers. And in the end. Following the adoption of these amendments, the Ministry of Defence and the government will have to face the consequences of such strategic changes and decisions on the reorganisation of the Slovenian army. In particular, because of the poor structure of the employees, the relationship and the relationship between the military and civilian work of the Ministry of Defence, the poor educational structures and the imbalance between officers and subordinates compared to the number of soldiers. Articles governing the area of possible administrative retirement or other regulation of the excess of the force in the defence sector have been released so far and the decision has been left to the future. However, not so far into the future, as with the projected reduction in the structure of the Slovenian army to 27,000 members, as stated in our documents, or even any start-up process, with the abolition of the recruitment system, the government will face more than 700 redundant workers this year, for which appropriate solutions will have to be found. Otherwise, the reform will not have such a successful conclusion as we have seen in the strategic documents adopted in our National Assembly. We will therefore meet again with the Defence Act, especially if the Government's draft on the abolition of the recruitment system in 2003 and the Transitional Professional Army in 2004, which is the subject of the Military Duty Act, and some decisions are specifically linked to this law. The proposed law will be supported by the LDS Parliamentary Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Defence Act, which we are amending or adopting today, entered into force in early 1995. That law, in fact this law, which is still in force, has made it possible to transform the Territorial Defence into the Slovenian Army. At that time, a law was also adopted to provide funds for the implementation of the basic development programmes 1994-2003. Other documents in this area have also been adopted. During this time, the first individual partnership programme was also adopted. In 1996, the National Assembly defined itself to international defence connections, which was upgraded by a joint statement of parliamentary parties in support of Slovenian integration in NATO in 1997. In 1999, Slovenia launched an action plan for NATO membership; in 2001 it adopted a new long-term programme for the development and equipping of the Slovenian Armed Forces, which provides for the reduction of the military composition from 47,000 to 26,000, of course with all changes in structures. Emphasis was given, at least it should have been given, to greater professionalism. All these changes must also be defined within the legal framework, which should allow for the necessary changes to the law before us. The situation in the field of recruitment is worrying and this is a fact and appropriate solutions must also be drawn up. The proposal before us offers the possibility of a voluntary reserve, but nothing more. In the Social Democratic Party, we support the proposal for professionalisation as quickly as possible and the abolition of the recruitment system. This amendment to the law before us does not, of course, solve it, but gives certain extensions to be made by adapting, by amending legislation which is being announced and which is possible, it can do so. In view of the fact that since 1995 when the basic law on defence has been passed, a number of changes have to be defined and all of the changes mentioned should also be defined by law, which should also be done due to the fact that we are adapting to the current situation and to the existing situation, we will support this proposal in the Social Democratic Party with all the amendments, and this is not what we propose and what we believe we should do - not that it is right, but we should do. However, in doing so, we recommend that the Government take a bolder look at the professionalisation and regulation of all the situations involved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The opinion of the parliamentary group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Ivan Kebrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the parliamentary group, we have examined in some detail or, otherwise, very carefully the draft amendments and the addition of the defence law. Our position is as follows. Not because of Nate or anything, but because of the defense of our country, the country, we believe it is right and necessary, not only useful, that we have on one hand a good law that will ensure to the armed forces what we expect of them, even taking into account our other, financial and other abilities. It is not only a reason for someone to say: Let us be neutral - it is, it is very good, but neutrality must be defended or protected. On the other hand, we think it's time we got this change, and I repeat, not because of Nate, but because of our own country. In order to harmonise the entire public sector, including the military, as it is financed by the State budget, we are therefore making the following amendment so that we cannot agree and we will not agree - and please bear this in mind - when we have proposed to article 23 of the amendment that the military cannot be an exception to the public sector so that they can advance in two years. If I may remind you that we already have too many officers and deputies, what logic then dictates that after just two years we have the opportunity to advance. Of course, we respect the conditions set out in Article 23, which must be met by someone or anyone who wants or wants guidance in order to make progress. All those who survived the war and served in military hands know that the best and best would be that war and that would never be. However, if we want to join the other defence systems on one side, then our army must also have the same conditions as weapons and everything else, so that the other, for the first time, will take us in, and if they take us in, they will also take us in due account. That is why we support this proposal in our parliamentary group, and also on page 31, we have not put a special amendment on the second indent, which says, "It has been a duty for a certain time, but for at least one year." However, I repeat, we insist on our amendment that there can be no progress after two years, because, purely theoretically speaking, we could have the generals themselves in 20 years and, on the other hand, who these generals will then command or who will lead, who will be formed into a good soldier, conscious of the protection of our country. I don't want to be long. I appeal to you again. Think about it and consider this logic, that we already have too many officers and officers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. Does any other group wish to present its position? [[He does.]] The colleague, Danica Simšič, will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. This is, as far as I can assess right now, the last of the parliamentary groups. Then we will proceed to the hearing of the Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Mr. Secretary, Mr. Secretary of State! Let me begin by saying that the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the amendments that we have before us. These are the first major changes to the Defence Act that are necessary after the adopted concept of the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces by 2004 and after the adoption of the Defence Strategy of the Republic of Slovenia, followed by the adoption of the amendments to the Law on Means for the Implementation of the Basic Development Programmes of the Defence Forces, by which we provided the basic necessary means for the transformation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. The Slovenian army is awaiting major changes over the next two years. It will be necessary to provide conditions for the redistribution and completion of new formations, which will also ensure the adaptation of the Slovenian Armed Forces to international cooperation and, on the other hand, to the decision on the almost professionalisation of the Slovenian Armed Forces. However, we were not fully convinced in the United List of Social Democrats that, at a time when we are preparing large-scale changes to public administration, including the regulation of the status of public officials, the authorities in the composition of the administration, as well as the unification of the pay system in the public sector, there is a need for such a large-scale amendment to the defence law, which for other reasons is likely to be subject to new changes soon. We were particularly disturbed in the first stage by some proposals that envisaged resolving the Slovenian Armed Forces' human resources issues, which are undoubtedly very serious, by early retirement of a large part of the current staffing structure. It was not acceptable for us to allow such extensive and favourable early retirement once soon after the adoption of the pension reform, with which we tried to limit the exceptions to retirement. However, I can say that the billers later listened to our many comments on these first proposals, and we are pleased that they have made a difference in the resolution of the urgent staffing restructuring of employees at the Ministry of Defence, and in particular the Slovenian Armed Forces. This is because we need to build awareness into the social security system of employees, and we need to build the awareness that people with specific skills are useful and indispensable for the development of our country, not that we are looking for the easiest ways to get rid of as many people as we currently need under some of the envisaged programmes. And of course the solution is simple - early retirement. The activities currently under way through cross-cutting coordination show that different paths are also possible. Only true will is required. Despite the obvious progress made in amending some chapters of the law, we still have some doubts or questions in the United List of Social Democrats that we would like to get a slightly broader explanation from the applicant. In particular, there are certain provisions in that part of the law relating to professional work in the defence field, where rights are governed by the labour relationship, which we are not fully convinced in the parliamentary group that they are in accordance with the adopted law on the system of public sector wages and certain rules to be adopted, relating to the reform of public administration and the situation of public servants. We are particularly interested in whether there are different additives that are foreseen, e.g. in Article 91, a special allowance for work restrictions which is not compatible with the activity of the Ministry, and in Article 96, which lists a number of additives for special working conditions, in 98.d, 98.e and 98.f of Article, which lists additives for special skills and especially hazardous work, a supplement for specific professional knowledge and training and a special allowance for permanent residence. Are all these supplements compatible with the adopted law on the public sector wage system? It is true, however, that in these applications the term supplements are usually used in accordance with the general rules, but we are not entirely convinced that in practice there will not be a discrepancy between the defence law and the law on the public sector wage system, which we have just adopted. Otherwise, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we expect an answer to these questions and concerns, while at the same time assessing that the proposed changes are mainly necessary if we are to ensure the smooth implementation of demanding reforms in the Slovenian Army, so we will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. As far as I can tell, we have exhausted the presentations on the positions of the groups. This way we can go to the discussion of other colleagues and colleagues. I don't have written statements, so I'm going to limit all the discussions to five minutes and ask who wants a word. I therefore expect him to respond to the presentation of the parliamentary positions, probably the Minister. Please, Dr. Grizold, you have the floor. Then I will, if this interest is not to continue the debate, conclude the general debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u24	So first of all, allow me to reject once again the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members in a reasoned manner. As I mentioned earlier, Article 63 of the Law substantially tightens the conditions for promotion in higher rank, making it impossible to even military personnel and public servants. In the case of military personnel, under Article 63, a senior officer or officer may be promoted if he fulfils eight conditions and not just one. Please allow me to quickly list all these conditions. First of all, he has a prescribed education. Secondly, that he is appointed to the service of military service, not to any job. Thirdly, a higher act is required for this duty, which means that the formational duty must be free and that it is required to be directly higher than that of the candidate for promotion. Fourthly, that duty has been performed for a certain period of at least one year. Fifthly, he successfully completed the prescribed military education or training. Six, it's been at least two years since the last promotion. A week to meet the conditions laid down for psychophysical preparedness. And the eighth time he's rated with the least good job grade. Therefore, those criteria must be met cumulatively, not individually. Furthermore, the system of promotion is not linked to the promotion of payment grade, nor is the system identical to the regulation in Article 118 of the Law on Public Servants, which, in addition to its assessment as additional criteria, provides for the fulfilment of education and the fulfilment of obligations under training programmes. So the career path of a deputy or officer in the Slovenian Army, which will be based on Article 63 of the Defence Act, for example, established, provides that a theoretically subordinate may advance to the highest rank of a subordinate within 34 years and an officer within 32 years. This must ensure compliance, as I said before, with all eight conditions at the same time. Therefore, comparisons with the public service system are not appropriate and are not justified in this case. For the career path mentioned is also made, I must say, by taking into account the criteria and standards applicable in comparable military organisations, in developed countries and changing conditions as proposed by the amendment, it would simply cause the highest spells of subordinates or officers to be achieved just before retirement. This is, of course, totally unacceptable in view of the demands of the military organisation. Therefore, of course, I propose that you do not support the amendment. As for the questions raised by the United Nations Group, which are very specific, I propose that - Mr Bogataj is already preparing very specific answers here. Please, if you answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Now I will give my word to Mr. Rich. Let me point out that in the second reading, we will need two-thirds of the support of the Members present for the decisions. And that is why I am inviting my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall in advance, because it seems that there will be no major discussion of the law at first reading. Please, now you have the floor, Mr. Rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament. The law itself, as the minister pointed out twice in his opening statement, does not provide the basis for any changes in the salary system in the defence field or in the military organisation. Article 96, which concludes with the fifth paragraph, refers to the specific conditions of defence work and concludes that general rules apply. In Article 98, which refers to the criteria for government regulation, this is for work outside the country, for the performance of a job outside the country, these criteria are also governed by the State's payment law with some sub-law. Therefore, a regulation which has so far regulated this area will be repealed or repealed. In short, the law does not provide any basis for the military to be paid under another law. 98.d. Article dealing with specific knowledge shall be completed by the third paragraph referring to the general rules, general rules as adopted or enforced for the public sector 98.e., which refers to specific expertise, is also concluded by reference to general rules. And Article 98.f, which refers to additives for permanent use, shall be completed by a second paragraph, which shall refer to the rules. In short, none of these articles - I hope that I have covered everything that is and could possibly give anyone the opportunity to think about some specific solutions - are being invoked and concluded by general rules. However, in the existing legal technique, there is a general provision for those who are not in the field and who regulate salaries in the public sector's pay system. Similarly, we have a regulated working relationship where the introductory provisions themselves explain that it is a reference and a reliance on general rules, only exceptions or specificities are specifically regulated by this law. Once again, the implementation of this law, if adopted in the proposed text, will not lead to any changes in the defence pay system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. Colleagues and colleagues, this is how we go to second reading, this is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. As I have already announced, I would remind you that, pursuant to Article 124, paragraph 1, of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to this Act will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I am putting this motion to the vote. We are voting on a procedural proposal, please. I think there's more of us in the hall. I had already invited colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, and the debate was shorter than some had likely expected. Once again on this road, I invite everyone to report to the great hall. I will put a procedural proposal to the vote next time. We are voting on a procedural proposal. 54 present. 53 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues! We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. I will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 26.3.2002. You've got a list ahead of you. First, I will put to the debate and then to the decision of the amendment of the Defence Committee, the amendment for the new Article 1a. I'm asking, does anyone want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. I would like to point out that the amendment is linked to the amendment to Articles 1 and 45. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment under order number 1, to the amendment for new Article 1.a. Let's vote! 55 present. 50 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against two.]] The two-thirds majority were in favour of this amendment, which is why it was adopted. We also have an amendment to Article 1 of the Defence Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. Let's vote! 51 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the article has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes one amendment to Article 3. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 3! 50 present. 47 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us also vote on the whole article. Let's vote on Article 3 in full! 53 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. We have an amendment from the government to Article 15. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and put the Government's amendment to Article 15 to the vote. Let's vote! 50 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The amendment amends the text of the Article in its entirety. You also have an amendment before you, not in the review, but in a special document signed by colleague Kebrich, the leader of the DeSUS Group of Members. This is an amendment to Article 23. Anybody want a word? I'm a colleague of Kebrich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Minister and Secretary of State! I repeat what I have already said on behalf of the parliamentary group, that I ask you to consider whether we will really accept an exception from the public sector, when we have before us a law on civil servants. I do not agree, although the Minister has twice performed not to support this amendment and to insist on that two-year progress. I submit that it is not only what has been said that this is not conditioned by the payment classes as well as the increase in such and other salaries. That doesn't exactly hold up, and I object. I am saying that, if we are logical and realistic and take into account that we already have too many officers and that this is a problem of early retirement and I tell you that in the coalition we have long coordinated and a lot of things, except for this, I will use the expression that the Minister insists with this proposal that there must be an exception and progress in two years. Please, let us support this amendment and be equal citizens for such laws, where they can truly be applied to all and let us not make unnecessary exceptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We have before us certain amendments to Article 23 of the DeSUS Group. I put this proposal to the vote. Please plead with me. We're in the middle of a vote. 54 present. 13 for, 32 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Let us vote on Article 23 as a whole. 55 present. 47 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall submit one amendment to Article 27. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number one. 51 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us now vote on Article 27 as a whole. Let's vote on Article 27 as a whole! This one's been adopted, too. 45 colleagues from 48 participants voted in favour. No one was against it. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have an amendment to Article 30 of the Government. Anybody want a word about him? I'm guessing there's no one. Let us vote on the amendment of the Government under order number 1 to 30. 50 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the text of Article 30 in its entirety. 46 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Two amendments are tabled by the Government by Article 32. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will first decide on the amendment under order number one to Article 32 on the fourth page of the review. I'm asking for a meeting in the hall. 46 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We accepted the first amendment. We are now voting on another. We are voting on the amendment under order number two to Article 32. 47 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The second amendment has been adopted. And now we can decide the whole article. We decide on Article 32 as a whole. 46 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have two amendments to article 42 on page 5 and page 6 of the review, these are the amendments of the government and the committee. Anybody want a word? If one is accepted, the other is irrelevant. Nobody wants a word. Then we'll vote. We will first vote on the amendment under order number one of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. If this is accepted, the amendment of the committee under point two is irrelevant. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the government. 51 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The second one thus became immaterial. We are now voting on the whole article. We vote, please, on Article 42 in full. I'll wait a minute. I think there's enough of us in the hall. We will have to vote once more on the article in its entirety. In the second, we vote on the whole article. It's about paragraph 42. May I have your attention, please? We are in the middle of a second vote on the same article. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Defence Committee is proposing an amendment to Article 44. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment of the Defence Committee to Article 44. 49 present, 48 for, none against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have also voted in full with this. By Article 45, the Defence Committee shall propose an amendment to delete this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal. 53 present, 52 for, none against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's how we decided on the amendments. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. I'm asking for peace. We are in the midst of a vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. 53 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing all the other articles are accepted. That way we can go to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the title of the law to the vote. The title was adopted and 51 colleagues and colleagues voted for 52. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. This way we can move on to the third reading of the bill. I'm asking, do qualified candidates want to table amendments? I guess not. First, will we determine whether the compatibility of the provisions of the law has been violated? [[It's not.]] That way we can move on to a decision on the law as a whole. Anybody want a word? Don't you? Excuse me? Please, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Our parliamentary group requires a 20-minute recess before the third reading vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u31	We're ahead of making a full decision on the law. I'm taking a 20-minute vacation. We will continue at 3:42 p.m. when we give the floor first to Comrade Kebrich, if he so wishes, and then we will decide on the bill in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u32	In a minute, the break I ordered will expire on the basis of a request from the DeSUS Group of Members. I invite my colleague Kebrich to come to the hall and, of course, everyone else. In two minutes, I'll be there at 3:43 p.m. Please come to the hall. Please come to the hall! We will identify the presence by determining whether there are 46 or more Members present. Once again, once again, at this point of the agenda, when adopting the Defence Act, the proposal must receive two-thirds of the support of those present that it has been adopted, including the adoption of the law. Please! With this warning, I invite you all to come to the hall again. It's 3:42 p.m., so time for rest is up. I'll be checking in at the hall any minute. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the big debate room. Peace in the hall! I'm picking up the presence! Please press the "quorum" button. We're in the middle of finding out who's in the hall. 48 present. The National Assembly is adjourned. The remainder is a full vote on the law. Mr Kebrič would like to familiarise the assembly with the views of the Group of Members. Please. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! First of all, why did we ask for 20 minutes' time off? With respect to the Rules of Procedure, we are aware that we have no possibility of repeating the amendment in the third reading. So we simply considered what was good or better for the country. We have come to the conclusion that we are a democratic party and, as such, we respect democracy also in the sense that most decisions are made, but the minority has the right to maintain its opinion, but in compliance with this principle we have decided that we will nevertheless - and do not think that we are offended - that our amendment has not been adopted, but in the interests of the State we will vote in favour of this amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Good. I'm asking for peace in the hall! So now we will make a full decision about the law, of course, if there is peace in the hall. I remind you of the rule of a two-thirds majority. Let's vote! We are voting on the proposed law as a whole. 59 present, 53 for, one against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the Minister for his participation in the meeting. We're moving to 2. Agenda item - Another defense proposal of the National Security Programme against natural and other accidents. The proposal for this law was also submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I'm asking the Secretary of State or the Secretary of State if he wants a word? Please, Minister of Defense, Dr. Grizold.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of July last year, when it first examined the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, we have drawn up a proposal for a second reading and I would like to highlight the following in this proposal. Firstly, we have taken full account of the conclusions and views of the National Assembly, so that the structure of the programme is in line with the law on protection against natural and other disasters and the law on fire protection. Secondly, we have radically reduced the chapter on the findings of the risk assessments, and only the main points or findings are given. Thirdly, according to the views of the National Assembly, the guidelines in the proposal for the Objectives and Tasks programme are complemented. The basis for the resolution on the national security strategy is taken into account, which, as we know, is the hierarchical highest constitutional document in the field of national security and was adopted by the National Assembly last year. The proposal for a national programme is thus included in the entire hierarchy and the interrelationship of strategic development and doctrinal documents in the field of national security. However, some discussions could not be followed if all tasks in the programme need to be defined on a time-by-time basis, setting up institutions and the like. The programme includes basic guidance and tasks, with annual plans, in accordance with Article 42 of the Law on the Protection against Natural and Other Disasters, and these guidelines and tasks will be specified, both after the time, manner and operators of their implementation. The programme proposal for the first year of implementation of the programme has already begun to be prepared. Fourthly, we have also included in the proposal of the programme a part relating to funding or the necessary funds. For the medium term, we have covered programmes and funds at national and local level that directly relate to increasing preparedness for different types of accidents. We have noted that the budgets for 2002 and 2003 have already been adopted and that the verified macro-fiscal scenario is up to and including 2005. The programme therefore provides for a moderate increase in expenditure on direct protection tasks against natural and other disasters, without radical increases. Since it is not possible to cover all expenditure on protection against natural and other accidents in the programme, the annual plans will ensure that a gradual review of expenditure in all the different areas and activities is gradually established. Fifthly, we have also taken the opinion and initiatives of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development of the State Council into account to the greatest extent in the proposal for a programme. In addition to the already mentioned requirement for a substantial increase in resources, it was not possible to follow the requirement for a reduction of tax obligations in the field of protection and rescue in the national programme. These issues have been addressed more extensively in the National Assembly and it would be unrealistic to set some guidelines in line with this treatment. In view of the preparation for the establishment of the provinces, it was also not possible to include in the programme the detailed powers of the landscapes in the field of protection against natural and other disasters. These can be identified when there are sufficiently clear solutions for the provinces. Six. In line with the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, we support the proposals of the amendments of the parent working body, which improve the text of the entire programme. We believe that the addition of the text in subsection 2.2.2.1 of the Mine Accident is merely a editorial supplement. In the text of the proposal for a first-reading programme, we used the term "mining accidents and other dangerous phenomena in mining" to assess this source of danger. With such a broad dictatorship, we also covered the problems of abandoned mines or mine closures. Since we have reduced this part of the programme according to the Committee's position, we believe that this is also an editorial and not substantive correction. And last but not least, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen! The national disaster protection programme provides a coherent and planned basis for further enhancing the effectiveness of this system. I therefore propose that the Assembly adopt it in a second reading. I also propose that, in the second reading, only the editorial amendments are in place to allow the assembly, after second reading, to carry out a third examination of the programme in accordance with Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure at this meeting and thus to adopt it definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Good. The Minister suggested that, therefore, after the second hearing, if there are no substantive amendments, we should move on to a third. We'll decide that later. Shall we ask first - does the Chairman of the Defence Committee want a word? [[He does.]] Comrade Petan, Chairman of the Defence Committee. Then the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! At its 12th meeting, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed a proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, the Committee was informed of the draft law and of the opinion of the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly. Initially, the text of the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, on behalf of the applicant, was presented by Dr Anton Grizold, Minister of Defence, and Mr Miran Bogataj, Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Defence. In its opinion, the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs notes that when preparing the second reading text, the drafter took into account the opinion of the secretariat from the previous hearing and aligned it with the provisions of Article 41 of the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Disasters and Article 14 of the Fire Protection Act. It is also clear that the applicant accepted the position of the National Assembly adopted at first reading at the 7th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. In the debate, members of the Defence Committee reiterated the issue of the operation of the fire service, in particular the issue of financing and acquisition of fire-fighting equipment and the issue of VAT, which had not been successfully resolved when amending the value added tax law; warnings about the consequences of non-professional measures in abandoned or closed mines; cautioned that any construction in areas which had been undisputedly identified as falling within the category of flood-related areas should be prohibited. The Defence Committee has drafted the following amendments to the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters: the words "exposure" should be replaced by the words "geographical position"; the words "relief obstacles" should be replaced by the words "relief obstacles" in sub-heading 2.2.1.1; the words "relief obstacles" should be replaced by the words "relief obstacles" in sub-heading 2.2.2.1; and the words "relief barriers" should be added to the words "reliable mines and mine accidents in the mines in the first sentence of the second paragraph for "including" in the words "relied mines and closing mines"; and the words "reliable mines" should be added to subsection 3.1.5.1 in the first sentence of the second paragraph; and to subsection 3.1.5.1. - In the second paragraph, the information systems are "based on the private professional global computer network of the Slovenian Administration of Protection and Rescue" replaced by the text "based on the computer network of the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue". Following the discussion and drafting of the amendments, the Defence Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Defence Council of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of the second reading, to support the text of the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, together with the amendments of the Committee." And the following conclusion: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Defence shall propose to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in the context of the second reading, to support the text of the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters, together with the amendments of the Committee, and shall, at the same meeting, proceed to the third reading of the national programme if no amendments are adopted at the second reading or if only amendments of editorial nature are adopted." The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in its opinion, announces that, in the event of a related treatment of the second and third stages, it will also remedy the vocabularies and make minor editorial corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I will invite representatives of the groups of Members to the floor if they so wish. I don't see any deadlines raised, so we're going to move on to a decision on the proposal. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the chapters be discussed and voted together on the remaining chapters to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. I am putting the procedural proposal to the vote. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We are in the middle of a vote on a procedural proposal. Once again, I will have to ask my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the big debate room. [[...]] Besides, I think there's enough of us in the gym. Once again, I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal. Please vote. Please vote on the procedural proposal! There are more than 50 of us in the hall. It's not working? Good. I see the device has stopped. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, please pay attention! Please, if you can all press, then if you can decide on a procedural proposal! Is the voting device okay? Is it okay? Comrade Bayuk? It's okay. 53 present. 52 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. You have the amendments in the report of your mother's working body. As an individual amendment, an amendment was tabled by the New Slovenia Group, which was tabled on 14 May. We will vote on these amendments. I'll put a second chapter into the debate. We have four amendments. Anybody want a word about them? I would like to introduce you to the content of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. This is an amendment that reads, quote, "Erosion can also be the carrying away of humus or earth because of a strong wind." Anyone want a word about these amendments? Please, mate Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u39	I'd just like to explain this amendment. As I come from the Vipava Valley, where there is a strong storm, it happens that in autumn, when it blows, it takes so much sown wheat and, of course, wheat cannot grow if erosion occurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u40	Anyone else want a word? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u41	We accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Okay. The government supports this amendment. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll vote. We shall first vote on the amendment to subsection 2.1.2. The surface. It's an amendment to the board. Let's vote! Peace in the hall! We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment of the committee to subsection 2.1.2. The surface. 55 present. 49 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We will now vote on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. A colleague of Mamić was signed on her behalf. This is an amendment to subsection 2.2.1.7. Erosion. Let's vote! 53 present. 46 for, 5 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to subsection 2.2.1.9. Winds and strong winds. It's a committee amendment. I'm putting him to the vote. Peace in the hall! Amendment of the Committee to subsection 2.2.1.9. Winds and strong winds. 52 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have an amendment to subsection 2.2.2.1. Accidents in the mines. It's a committee amendment. We're voting on him. 50 present. 48 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that this amendment has also been adopted. We vote on II. the whole chapter. We vote on the second amendment as a whole, complemented by the chapter as supplemented by the amendments. 46 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Chapter II has been adopted. To Chapter III, we have one amendment to Chapter 3.1.5.1. Information systems. Anybody want a word? It's an amendment to the board. [[Nobody.]] We vote on this amendment. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. 56 present. 54 for, no one's against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. We vote on Chapter III as a whole. We're in the middle of voting on Chapter III. 56 present. One less vote than that for, say, 55, no one's against it. [[in favour of 55 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted this chapter. We are now moving on to a debate on the remaining chapters to which no amendments have been tabled. Does anyone want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will decide on the remaining chapters to which the amendments have not been tabled. We're voting. We vote on the remaining chapters to which no amendments have been tabled. 57 present. 56 for, no one's against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the remaining chapters have been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the title of the national programme. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll decide on the proposal. We're voting. We vote on the title of the national programme. The title is accepted. So decided 51 colleagues and colleagues, of 52. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] This concludes our second treatment. The Defence Committee has proposed to the assembly that, in accordance with paragraph 1 of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure at this meeting, we also carry out a third reading of the national programme. Is he opposed to the secretariat? Does he have any comment? [[There is.]] Please, Madam Secretary from the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Mr President, after consulting the applicant, we note that the adoption of the Erosion Amendment, which has been tabled by the New Slovenia Group of Members, is of an explanatory nature, and we believe that in this case it can be considered as an editorial amendment and that the conditions for the transition to the next stage of consideration are expired.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u44	Thus, the conditions for editorial correction are met. Please, Comrade Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u45	I object to this explanation because I do not know the concept of the explanatory nature of the amendment, because there has been no such terminology in the rules of procedure that have been in force so far. I do not think it is possible to have a third hearing under this Article. It is simply that we cannot interpret different rules of procedure in every law. I think it's a serious intervention. The amendment has been adopted and things are perfectly clear, as part of the follow-up procedure, this will be settled and I do not think there are any conditions for us to make this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Good. We have heard the opinion of the secretariat, we have heard the opinion of colleague Anderlich. We are certainly dealing with the proposal to hold a third hearing at this meeting, so I will put to the vote a proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: "The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the proposal for a national programme of protection against natural and other disasters at this extraordinary meeting." Anyone else want a word on this decision? [[No, no, ……]] We will then vote on this proposal. Please vote on the proposal to hold the third hearing at this meeting. 54 present, 46 for, 4 versus. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that we have adopted such a proposal. That way we can move on to the third reading. Amendments to the II were tabled. and III. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general Any of the qualified candidates want to table the amendments? I don't see the deadlines, so I don't see any suggestions for that either. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 198 I ask the Secretariat whether there has been a breach of mutual conformity? I see that they answer that this is not the case, so we can move on to a full vote on the national programme. Anyone else want a word before I put him to the vote? [[No, no, ……]] I'm putting the national programme to a vote. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 55 present, 53 for, none against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the national programme is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. At this point too, I thank the Minister for his cooperation. We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE CUSTOMS LAW. I invite government representatives to come to the large debate room because the government is proposing this law. Secretary of State Končan is already in the Chamber, and if he so wishes, I will invite him to the floor. You have the floor, so I invite you to speak for me. But everyone else I ask for peace in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At its 14th extraordinary meeting on 14 February this year, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the customs law and adopted the proposed law as a suitable basis for the preparation of the second reading proposal. At the same time, the National Assembly ordered the Government to prepare, as a proponent of the law, the text of the draft law for second reading, taking into account all comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. In the light of the views of the national assembly, the proposer drew up the text of the draft law for second reading, taking full account of the proposals and comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. The proposal also included proposals from the Ministry of Transport in the text, in Article 31 replacing the word "aircraft" with the word "aircraft". The correction in the text basically means alignment with the expression in the law of aviation. In view of the comments received from individual ministries, the proposer examined them and also accepted them in part and rejected them most by written and reasoned arguments. On this basis, some amendments were prepared. They are partly substantive and partly editorial in nature. Thus, the following amendments are substantive: the second amendment, which provides for the harmonisation of the provisions of the customs law with the provisions of the Personal Data Protection Act, the fourth, fifth and sixth amendments, which are more appropriate in the field of the introduction of goods into the customs territory and the provisions on non-customs goods and at the same time the seventh amendment relating to the completion of the transit procedure. The government has also proposed to the National Assembly, in the first reading of the law, the adoption of provisions that will achieve a full harmonisation of the area of exemption from import duties, where we have so far not been in compliance with the European legislation. This was based on our negotiating points for Area 25, which is the customs union, which states that the area of customs exemptions will not be gradually coordinated, but we will do it all at once. We are doing this right now at a time when, in view of the implementation of the new customs law, it is possible to establish autonomous measures to reduce or abolish the customs rate for certain goods not produced in Slovenia and, in view of the conclusion of the transitional periods in which customs rates have been gradually reduced by free trade agreements with individual countries or groups of countries, such as the EU, Efta, Cefta, the Baltic States, Croatia and Macedonia, Turkey, Israel and the country of Bosnia and Herzegovina, together with 33 countries with which we have had these free trade agreements and for all these industrial goods, originating in those countries, import freely at the customs stage and thus abolishing certain exemptions does not in fact represent any economic consequences for beneficiaries. The government is proposing to the National Assembly to approve the proposed law, together with the proposed amendments, as a suitable basis for drafting a proposal for a third-reading law. At the same time, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to adopt a decision to prepare a third review of this law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, since the adoption of this law has been recorded in the national programme for the adoption of the acquis in the European Union as early as 2001, and so will be possible in the 2001 progress report to be prepared in June. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State. Is the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy interested? [[He does.]] The chairman of the committee will have an introduction, and then he will give his position to the secretariat. Please, buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government representatives, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the draft law at its meeting on 4 April this year and focused on examining the provision of the 80th Article of the Act, which provides for the amendment of the text of Article 161 of the current law and relates to the exemption from import duties. In the context of the examination of this Article, the Committee, on the basis of the comments and amendments made by the Institute of Disabled Enterprises of Slovenia and the Council of Disabled Organizations of Slovenia, as well as the opinion and proposal of the amendment of the interested working body, focused on the proposed new text of Article 7(1), which provides for the exemption of import duties for objects specifically designed for the education, training and employment of persons with disabilities, provided that they are imported by persons with disabilities for their own use or disabled organisations and institutions for the training of persons with disabilities, unless such items are produced in Slovenia. Following a broad discussion, on the basis of the opinion of the working body concerned and taking these reasons into account, the Committee drafted a proposal for an amendment amending the text of Article 161, paragraph 7, of the Act. In view of the above, the Government does not, in principle, object to the amendment proposal as formulated by the labour force, but proposes an appropriate correction of this proposal in such a way as to delete in the proposed new text of paragraph 161 of Article 7 the exemption from the payment of import duties by disabled undertakings and the exemption from import duties relates to specific equipment and technical devices, either designed for the education of persons with disabilities or for their training or employment, but not for all three purposes at the same time as a cumulative condition. On this basis, the Committee then drafted and adopted its amendment to Article 80 to amend the text of Article 7, paragraph 161, which is set out below and reads as follows: "Article 7, paragraph 161, is amended as follows: '7. specific equipment and technical tools specially designed for the education, training or employment of persons with disabilities imported by persons with disabilities for their own use or by disabled organisations, associations and institutions for training and employment of persons with disabilities, if such objects are not produced in Slovenia." Such an amendment is also supported by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. At the same time, the Committee supported the amendments of the Government to Articles 2, 5, 6, 11, 12, 26, 58, 59, 52, which are referred to as the new Articles 62a and 80 of the Act. I propose to the assembly, on behalf of the Committee, that it support the proposed amendments to the Committee, together with the two amendments to the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much, colleague Pucko, chairman of the committee. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I would like to point out that we are in second reading, so we will first vote on the procedural proposal to discuss and vote together after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles. Of course, this decision will be adopted if at least one third of the Members present do not oppose it. I'm gonna wait a minute. I don't think there's enough of us in the gym right now. I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the big debate room. Heads of the parliamentary groups, I ask the secretaries to inform colleagues and colleagues that we will move to a second reading decision on the bill. I'll just wait a minute. I don't think there's enough of us. Please do it again. But I won't wait long. I will put to the vote a procedural proposal and I would like everyone's attention. Please, we are voting on a procedural proposal. Please, if you vote. We are in the middle of a vote on a procedural proposal. The first vote failed. I'll wait a minute. This point was quickly completed, but we are in the hall. 50 Members and Members. I understand that those who are in the hall do not want to press their presence there because they strongly want the societies of our colleagues and colleagues in the hall. That's why I'm gonna wait a minute. Now I will put this procedural proposal to the second, you know what we will decide, to the vote. I'm asking you to plead for him. We are in a second decision on a procedural proposal before deciding on the amendments. 46 present. 41 for, no one was against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] This procedural proposal has been adopted. Now I invite you to take the amendment review into your hands. This one was prepared on April 19th. This review has six pages. We will first open the debate and then decide on the proposal for a new Article 2.a. The proposer is the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal? I'm guessing there's no one. So I will put to the vote a proposal for a new Article 2.a. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a new Article 2.a. 47 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've adopted a new Article 2a. We have a proposal for a new Article 5a, which is also proposed by the government. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on it. Something's not right. I'm just asking for a moment. We vote on it. Now there's nothing wrong with the voting device. Please, we are voting on the proposal for a new Article 5.a. There's 57 of us in the hall, I think. I think there are mostly parliamentary groups, I was going to say, present. 61 of us are in the hall. I can ask for a little concentration. 61 of us are in the hall. We are voting on the amendment for a new Article 5a. Let's vote! 61 of us are in the hall. Please. Article 5a shall be put to the vote. 51 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it this one's been voted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also proposes an amendment for a new Article 6.a. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let's vote on the amendment for the new Article 6a! 51 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes an amendment to Article 11. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants a word, we will vote first on the amendment. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 11! Peace in the hall! We'll wait half a minute. There's enough of us in the hall. There's 60 of us in the hall. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to come. There is no problem with the quorum, Members and Members of Parliament. Once again, I will put the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the vote of the 11th Article. I'm asking you to make a decision. We're in the middle of a vote. National Assembly, please! 53 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we must vote on the whole article. Please, let's vote on the whole article! 49 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. On the 3rd and 4th pages of the review we have the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 12. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on this. Let's vote! Let us therefore vote that paragraph 12 should be amended to read as the amendment says. 48 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 12 has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also proposes an amendment to Article 26. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm putting the government's amendment to the vote. 51 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 26 has been adopted with this amendment. On pages 4 and 5, we have the government's amendment for the new 58.a. Anybody want a word? I don't see any interest. I'm closing the debate. Let's vote! Peace in the hall! May I have your attention, please? We're in the middle of a vote for a new 58.a. 51 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. The Government is proposing an amendment to Article 59. Anybody want a word? I guess not. Let's vote on the amendment of the government to Article 59! 46 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy proposes an amendment to Article 62. Let's vote on him because no one wants to say a word! I'm asking for peace in the hall! Let us vote on the amendment of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 46 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. For the new 62a article, the amendment is tabled by the Government. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude my word and put this proposal to the vote. There were not enough colleagues and colleagues to vote. I'll wait again for a moment to gather, and there are still enough people in the hall. Let me say we're in the middle of a vote for the new 62a. I think it is more useful if the National Assembly makes quick decisions, if there are no political differences and that it prefers to stop with time at points where there are differences. I think it's a smarter time. Let us vote again, secondly, on the new Article 62a. We're in the middle of a vote. There's enough of us in the hall. 53 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it this article has been adopted. Two amendments shall be tabled by the 80th Article Finance Committee and the Government. These are also two final decisions in the second reading of this law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will first decide on the proposal of the Finance Committee, the amendment under order number one. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. 54 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And now, finally, on the last amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under order number 2. We're voting. Once again, the vote will have to be taken. This is the last vote on the amendments, so I would like to ask for some attention, because then we are going to another substantive point, so it would be good to end this. There's enough of us in the hall. Secondly, I will put to the vote the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. This is an amendment under order number two. Please. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We are now voting on the whole article, this is Article 80. I ask that we proceed with this vote. 46 in attendance, 43 in, one in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that we have accepted this proposal. [[Comrade Jerovšek, your microphone is on. Thank you very much.]] We will now vote on the other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. It is a procedural proposal - sorry, it is a substantive proposal, not a procedural one. We are now deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled, not the procedure for doing so. [[my mistake]] . Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] So once again, I warn you, we are deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. We vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. 53 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles have been adopted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we'll decide on the title of the law. We vote on the title of the law. 52 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've adopted the title of the law. We have two proposals for conclusions, both prepared by the government. We will first decide on the proposal for the government to draw up a proposal for a third-reading law. Does anyone want to discuss this decision? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting it to a vote. We're voting. 48 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the government will draw up a proposal for a third-reading law. The second decision reads: "The third examination of the law shall take place on the basis of the second paragraph of Rule 194 of the Rules of Procedure." That's the government's proposal. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please decide on this further proposed decision. I ask for peace in the hall, we are in the middle of a decision. This is the last vote on this agenda item, and we would end it. I'll wait two minutes and then I'll wait for my colleagues and colleagues. [[...]] Once we have completed this point, we will move on to the law on amendments and additions to the law on the use of funds obtained from the purchase of the Minister already welcome in our midst. First of all, of course, we must decide on another proposal for the third consideration to be carried out on the basis of Article 194, paragraph 2. We're voting again. This is the second vote on this proposal. If we don't have a presence, there's enough of us in the hall, we're gonna have to take a break. 45. There's enough of us in the hall. There's 60 of us in the hall. 60. Does anyone object to another decision? Please. No one's objecting. I will put this proposal to the vote again. Excuse me? He's objecting. Good. Then it's like I'm taking a 10-minute break according to the rules of procedure. At 4:43 p.m., we'll vote. We've had enough of this. 62 of us were in the hall. I suggest in 10 minutes, we're all here so we can make a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Your Honor! We will briefly vote for the third time on a proposal for a decision to hold a third hearing on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. Your Honor! This is the third time we will vote on the proposal for a decision. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. This is the third time we have voted on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. He voted 42 against no one. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representative and representatives of the government very much for their cooperation, as well as the representative of the secretariat. And we're moving on to 4. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE AMENDMENTS TO THE APPLICATION OF FUNDS RECEIVED FROM THE BUILDING ADDRESSED ON THE BASIS OF THE LEGISLATION OF ENTITIES, A FAST PROCEDURE. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does a representative of the government want a word? Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Tea Petrin, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Nice greetings, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the use of the funds derived from the purchase on the basis of the Law on the Property Conversion of Enterprises. The reason is that, by abolishing the Slovenian Development Society, we want to transfer the funds previously allocated under the purchasing law intended to promote technological development to the Ministry of the Economy. The Ministry of Economy is, in fact, the legal successor to this area of technological development, when individual resources have been transformed and activities previously covered by the Ministry of Science and Technology have been fragmented. These funds would continue to be used for the purpose of promoting technological development. If you allow me, I would only point to the fact that you are, I am sure, well aware that in Slovenia economic growth is less than it could be, even due to a large backlog or so-called technological gap, if we compare the technological competence of our companies with companies in more successful and competitive countries. Of course, accelerated investment in bridging this gap is also the objective of government policy, which has already been a lot of talk. We are also just ahead of the establishment of the Organisation for Technological Development, following the example of Finland, which, on the basis of such an organisation, has greatly accelerated technological development in its country and is an example in this area for all other countries. I would also like to point out that the proposal before you has also been fully supported by the Committee on the Economy of the National Assembly. Perhaps another important information is that the money invested in the promotion of technological development in Slovenia, based on measurements, measurements, returns in the year and a half after the completed project, returns in eight times. So if we put in one tolar, the return of this tolar or the return of this tolar is eight times. I think that these are very important reasons for saying that the funds that would otherwise drown in the liquidation of the SRD are in the process of being abolished; as you know, this process is already under way and will also be decided somewhere in May on the liquidation of the Slovenian Development Society. Well, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to take this opportunity to say the government's position on the amendment tabled by the parliamentary group. I have to say, the government is rejecting the amendment because it's actually illegal. It is illegal, however, because it is contrary to Slovenian legislation - I stress, Slovenian legislation - which regulates the rules on granting state aid. The aid, as this amendment would somehow enable those affected and in the text of those undertakings, is essentially intended to bridge operational problems in companies and is not allowed in terms of State aid rules. That's why the government is rejecting this amendment. So much for the introduction, and if necessary, some explanation in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Ferry Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Madam Minister, Madam Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen! At its 24th session, 3.4., the Committee considered the proposal for a law. In addition to the explanations, written and oral provided by the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tea Petrin, the Committee was also informed of the opinion of the secretariat and took into account and therefore proposes an amendment to Article 3. The Committee agreed on the reasons, objectives and proposed content of the proposal for a law, namely that, when the Slovenian Development Society ceases to operate, purchases under the Law on Property Transformation of Enterprises are transferred to the Ministry of Economy for the same purpose, that is to promote technology and development companies. This is not just about formal automation. In fact, as Mrs Minister has already said, as the legal successor of the Technology and Development Fund, the Slovenian Development Company was the one who carried out the same or analogue activity and, at the end of the Slovenian Development Society, it is most appropriate to manage the Ministry of Economy, which is otherwise responsible for economic development and technological development, which is part of its core activity. This is an important substantive reason, and I would add that it is true, as the Minister said, that in the budget of the State of Slovenia from 1995 until 1999 the share of technological development declined. We have also received warnings from abroad in the European Union reports. The development report adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia at the end of April, prepared by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in the table, which lists the share of expenditure on research and development in the candidate countries and in the European Union, shows that this share has actually fallen to only 1.5% in 1999, with an average of close to 2% in the European Union and, above all, in the Scandinavian countries where this percentage exceeds 3%. One of these countries, Finland, was mentioned by the Minister. A similar percentage applies to Sweden as well as to some other countries. So the fact that this trend is necessary is not only to stop it, but to turn it up in order to increase the share of expenditure on technological development and technological modernisation of production, which is certainly one of the main factors for competitiveness and development. For the sake of correctness in the presentation of the debate on the Committee on the Economy, I must say - I will not go beyond what I have to say in the rules of procedure - because the amendment to Article 3 tabled by fellow Members was subsequently tabled, after the meeting, on the same day, but after the meeting of the Committee. However, the fact is that there was also a debate on this issue in the general debate on the Committee. Indeed, some fellow Members did not rightly point out the problem of the liquidity of companies and, in particular, the problem of companies from certain sectors with particular problems. In view of this debate, the Committee decided and then also organised a thorough debate at the next meeting on companies in difficulty, in particular from textiles, leather processing and some other activities. He discussed not only the problems in these companies, but mainly what the government is doing and what it intends to do in the future to improve the situation in these companies, to restructure them. I must say that we have not completed this consideration, but it is agreed that we will continue it at one of the future meetings in early June, linked to regional policy, which is also one of the weak points of our economic and development policy. In the course of this debate, the Committee, despite the warning of these problems, has supported such a bill as it is before us and has not decided on a specific amendment to direct some of these funds, which are either small or small, to address the problems of restructuring and in particular the resolution of liquidity problems, because it certainly requires much more than the proposed 400 million for this purpose, and thus would not have done any particular benefit to firms in difficulty, but would have done a great deal of damage in the field of technological development. By proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal be considered in a rapid manner and also adopted, together with the amendment of the Committee to Article 3, in the light of the Secretariat's comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the discussion of possible debaters is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and the amendments tabled to the bill. Since the bill has four articles, we will decide on each and at the time of Article 3 we will also consider both amendments tabled. I'm putting Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to decision-making on Article 1. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. It's 36 votes against 2. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 1 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on Article 2. We're voting. The first vote on Article 2 has not been successful, so I would like to ask your attention very much. The second time, we will vote on Article 2. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 3 and on the two amendments to this Article. This is the amendment you have in the report, which is proposed by the Committee, and the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 3, the first to be signed by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. I am fully opening the debate on both amendments and Article 3. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Dear colleagues and fellow Members! There was something about the amendments, the first of which I am a signatory, which has already been discussed by the Minister, and more has been discussed in the debate on the working body of the mother. Twice, however, this problem has already been discussed with both ministries, both the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Allow me a few words to explain this amendment and, of course, a few words to support this amendment. It may seem at first sight that the amendment somehow does not follow or that it does not comply with the purpose of this law. Far from it, Madam Minister, this amendment is illegal. This amendment may not sit in some rules that will be domesticated or also run away and enforced in the future in the European Union when we are members, but it is not illegal. I don't see what this amendment, as proposed, should be illegal. But you have to say that. During a certain period, which was crucial at the end of 1998, a whole range of good branded companies, with a reputation, with a market share, were in serious trouble. Many of these companies have opted for a forced settlement. On the basis of a well-prepared project, which was also given by the Ministry of Economic Activities, many of these companies have been saved from bankruptcy and are also doing well. They have re-established on the market and have good results. However, the problem is that at that time it entered the compulsory settlement programme without including the necessary amount of relief funds. I must say that when I was already familiar with the problems of these companies, which entailed a whole range of employment structures, I met that some administrations had even negotiated relatively far for the beneficiaries of the pensions, irrespective of the fact that the guarantee fund at the time provided the starting points for forced settlement to the workers. However, then, clearly, as I also welcome, the Ministry's decision at the time was that these forced settlements had been successful and that companies had collected, in favour of the large number of employees who had kept their jobs, survived the forced settlement, and this, so to speak, allowed this to happen. But then, of course, the law on the guarantee fund changed, the consequences of which I had already pointed out. On the basis of the rights of workers transferred to relief in the case of compulsory settlement to the basic labour law, a legal basis was laid down for the annulment, together with all late payments, of judicial costs and so on, to appeal. The execution under which these emoluments fall is practically putting these companies into a severe liquidity crisis, which they somehow win; some will also go bankrupt. But I do know that a whole range of companies, from the leather industry, Titana Kamnik, the cotton compartments of Tržič, the poultry of Pivka, and I can still list them, will somehow even be erased. At this time, however, there are all start-ups and well-established technological development projects, some of which are just before the last confirmations. And simply because it's all worth it, the big question is whether these companies will even be able to sustain it. For this purpose, however, I have seen some of these funds, which were also intended, in accordance with the Property Change Act, for technological development, to enter with a fraction of these funds as intervention funds for this purpose. The rules and manner, clearly, we have left the Ministry's right to do so and to prescribe them. Perhaps now is the time for us to do something while this country can do something for the benefit of businesses, for the benefit of the real sector, no matter how soon it may not be possible to do so in this address. But this is not the grant of aid as liquidity assets. I assure and argue that these companies must be helped to complete those development and technological projects that have been standing for almost six months and are impossible to finance. So I think maybe this amount is also, according to a project that the Ministry has with this fund of the former technology and development fund at the level of a good billion-and-a-half is somehow too large to enable them to realize. We can also agree here or, as we say, give a more acceptable solution, but some of these resources would be balm to these companies. I hope that I have been able to present in a short time what we want to do with this amendment; we do not want this amendment to prevent the rights of workers to dismissals, but on the basis of solutions such as this case, otherwise some workers, a nice number, will be granted discharges, but a much larger number of workers will be able to lose their jobs and lose their salaries. And even those parts of the workers who have not yet been paid for their retirement will lose everything. This is a big question concerning the real sector, and this house, this national assembly, despite some rules being agreed upon, will have much more obedience to the real sector in this country. We have a huge hearing when we are discussing wages in the public sector, when there is a real sector issue here, when none of the administrations asks these workers whether they are satisfied with their salaries or not; they know that they have one way to overcome this crisis if they want to keep the company, to keep the brand, to keep the market and the employment structure. Thank you very much. Please support this amendment. However, I assure you, of course, that if only anything were acceptable, we will also, if necessary, reduce the share of the expected funds as set out in this amendment. This, however, is the extent of the funds that are somehow still minimal to allow intervention for technological development in these companies to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Madam Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u58	Thank you for that opportunity. Maybe we should discuss this illegality first. Indeed, it is illegal in that it is contrary to the State aid law or the State aid rules. That's the whole point of what I said. He's illegal in this respect. Secondly, what I would like to stress once again is that, if you allow us to reduce funds to promote this technological development and all the other components that enable businesses today or the business elements that "de facto" enable businesses to operate in the market in the long term and to compete successfully in this international competitive fight, we will have more every year companies that are not able to provide jobs and then all these obligations to their workers, the less economic growth we will be able to pursue the very important goal that we all are committed to, and thus achieve full employment as much as possible. This is one thing I'd like to highlight. Secondly, the concern for the real sector is important, and I strongly agree with this, as I am also in charge of this area. We are designing the policy that we are designing just to make this sector, or the real sector, as strong as possible. We are also aware of these problems. That is why I would like to point out that, in essence, for the problems faced by such companies, the solution already lays down for them this law, which is ahead of us, where it is only one of these intents for the distribution of purchases, that is to say the Technology Development Fund. I mean, let these purchases come for the same purposes to the Ministry of the Economy, all the other intended purchases are unchanged. And if we look at point 7 or Article 7, we find that the dictatorship is that 13 per cent of the purchases are earmarked for the rehabilitation of businesses and economies. These funds shall be collected at the Ministry of Economy and Enterprise, if they are in real trouble, and may be applied to this call for aid that the State may grant to firms in difficulty. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and It was the first call. And companies have already applied and are already getting help from this address. Secondly, if these companies, which were discussed, were not really so much for - and it would be very nice, very good - for the issue of liquidity problems, for the real problems that bring businesses into, or forced settlement or bankruptcy, but more in terms of these development incentives, but also in our ministry, of course. An invitation to tender has been issued. 17 calls were published under the "Action Programme for Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness 2002-2006" scheme. And on the basis of this scheme - in fact for this year, it is, of course, only until 2002 - and in the context of these calls, important funds are specifically intended to promote technological development and at the same time pre-competitive research, which are also aimed at strengthening the development potential of Slovenian companies. And they have the opportunity and the opportunity to apply for these invitations. At the same time, I would like to inform you that solutions are still being sought if, in view of these 1998 facts, there were any additional solutions under the existing State aid legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We will first vote on the Committee's amendment to Article 3, which, as I said before, is in the report. First, on the amendment of the Committee to Article 3. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 41 votes to 1. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment of the Committee to Article 3 has been adopted. And now we are voting on the amendment of the Group of Members with the first-signed Mr Brenčič. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 23 votes to 23. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the amendment of the Group of Members has not been adopted. And we are now voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. It's 36 votes against 8. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that Article 3 is fully adopted. In the debate and decision-making I am also giving Article 4, which governs when the law enters into force. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 35 votes against 1. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 4 has been adopted. I'm moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. We're voting. There are 46 of us present. It's 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I understand the address has been accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading amendment to Article 3 has been adopted to the proposal for a law. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this Article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. Mr Brenčič, on the bill as a whole. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I certainly support the purpose of the law. However, I know that from this package of funds, the unallocated funds of 1 billion 500 million, would be the best use of the money to help complete the few well-established development projects that have taken place in these companies. On the one hand, I am pleased that the National Assembly, at least in this majority, has responded to this amendment, that practically one voice is too small. However, I certainly want the best traveller for the purpose of this law. However, I expect the Ministry of Economic Affairs, as well as the Ministry of Labour, to finally listen to some of these directors who have no influence whatsoever on the fact that these companies have gone into trouble. But they pulled the companies out with their management. And they gave up. The president of the administration, Titan Kamnik, is dismayed by the president of the Vrhnnik leather industry and is only a matter of days before he gives his farewell. You know, these are serious questions that we're going to have to ask ourselves until we can do something as a national assembly for our companies and talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please. It's all about the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Just like a replica to an explanation. We've met with these directors. We also asked them to give us accurate information and amounts that they had hurt and so forth, but we did not receive this from them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Someone else wants a full bill. Replica, Mr. Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Allow me a brief replica, Madam Vice President. When some of us, who are associated with our work in the National Assembly, first of all with a committee dealing with work, employment and so on, started dealing with this problem, it was a year ago. At that time, it would be very easy for both ministries to resolve this with a little goodwill. But then, you know, we've been fighting for almost a year so that these directors in the Chamber of Commerce or anywhere really can talk and present the problem. So lately, for which I also thank the Minister, there has been a little more willingness. However, I think that Mrs Petrinova will be very keen to hear that in the days ahead of us, we will do something, or it will be too late after our leave. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. I fully agree with what colleague Brenčič has said before and even now in presenting the problem, but we are different in terms of where the solution is. The solution to shift these 400 million from technological development to other measures is simple, in addition to what the Minister said, where there are also formal obstacles, but there is no substantive solution. Colleagues and colleagues, let me mention only the case of Moore, which is not listed here - I know that the list is not closed because it is 'itd. "in the end. In the case of Mura, as agreed between the Minister and the Prime Minister, as recently informed me by the Director or President of the Mura administration, the procedure for obtaining those funds agreed months ago in accordance with the procedure described by the Minister is still in progress, and at that time a number of things can happen if there are no intervention solutions. However, the solutions are such that if these 400 million were to fully address the current problems, the Mura would survive until then to contribute to the means for which it can run under the prescribed'regulators' so that nothing could be left to solve other problems. My argument is, this is not the right way, for technological development we have any change, but the government has to find other resources. The Minister, if I have understood it correctly, has also ensured that she is looking for them and will also find them to solve the problems raised by colleague Brenčič. In short, we will have the opportunity, colleagues and colleagues, to talk about the rebalancing of this year's state budget, which will be a difficult and hard debate, but we will then have the opportunity to define, of course, firstly, I recognise, in the coalition and all together, that projects that are in the interest of economic development and restructuring and similar projects, as well as those that we are talking about today. I go back so much, the original sin or problem arose when this year's budget was adopted, when too little funds were provided in the budget for these purposes. And we are, remember, those who are members of the Committee on the Economy, members and members and those who have read the report of the Committee when it considered the draft budget, that the Committee at that time pointed out that there is not enough money to restructure the economy and other interventions to the economy that are needed to accelerate development and restructuring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants to discuss the proposal for a law on the whole and since we are in full before deciding on the law, I ask the representative of the secretariat whether the provisions of the law could be violated due to the amendment adopted. [[It's not.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 44 votes to 1. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and our secretariat very much for their cooperation. We move on to agenda 5 - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on international occasional passenger transport or the Interbus agreement. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Not at all. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? Not at all. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it and since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law by the beginning of the hearing, I propose that the Council, in accordance with paragraph 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, decide to vote only on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal for a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Would anyone like to discuss the proposed decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 43 votes against 2. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to six. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF HUNGARY ON THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THE ESTABLISHMENT The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I propose to the assembly that no amendments have been tabled to act in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 before the initiation of the hearing. Would anyone like to discuss the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. The first vote on the proposal to vote on the bill as a whole, because the amendments have not been tabled, has not been successful. That's why I'm asking your attention. There's enough of us in the hall. Secondly, we vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Period of the Day - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Convention on Social Security between the Republic of Slovenia and the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[Not at all.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. [[They don't want to.]] Nor do Members and Members wish to speak. I propose to the assembly once again that the amendments have not been tabled to act in accordance with Rule 213 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. The first vote on the draft decision has not been successful, so I would like to draw attention again, because we are going to vote on the proposal for a full vote on the proposal. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And with that, I conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 8. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE UNITED GOVERNMENT OF THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA ON THE INTERNATIONAL TRANSPORT OF PASSENGERS AND GOODS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat representatives don't either. Do I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups? The MPs and the MPs? Since no one wants a word, I propose to the assembly that there be no amendments tabled to act in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Because no one wants to debate, we vote. We're voting. May I have your attention, because we are voting! There are 51 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. Period of the day - This is on the eve of a bill on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on international road transport. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Rapporteur of the committee, I'm sorry. Representative of the Secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give my word to Members and Members of Parliament? Since no one wants a word, I propose to the assembly that, in the absence of any amendments tabled, we decide in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I shall put the proposed decision to the vote. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. Point of the agenda - This is a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Austrian Federal Government on the amendment of the agreement on the planning of tourism in the border area. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur want to speak to the Foreign Policy Committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representative of the Secretariat? [[Not exactly.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Since no one wants to discuss it, I propose that the assembly decide in accordance with Rule 213(2) of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 41 votes against no one. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 44 votes against no one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government, including representatives and representatives of the secretariat very much for their cooperation. We're moving to 11. At the end of the day, that's a second defensive proposal for a law on student food subsidies. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with a first-signed Mark Diacia. Does the proposer's representative want a word? Mr. Marko Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! At its 10th meeting on 22.11.2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed the proposal for a law on subsidising student diet. In doing so, he adopted the following conclusions: The proposal for a law on subsidising student diet is an appropriate basis for the preparation of a law for second treatment. And the proposer should prepare a proposal for a second reading law, taking into account the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. The applicant took these decisions into account and prepared a proposal for a second reading law. At its meeting, the mother's work was adopted by amendments, which are editorial in nature. It was also accepted by the amendments of the government. The amendment to Article 6 shall be supported by the proposer. On the amendment of the Government to Article 4, the first-signed group of Members tabled an amendment to my smallness, according to the debate at the Committee's meeting. The amendment is also accepted by the Government's representative. The amendment thus amended to Article 4 is also acceptable to the proposer. I ask all Members for their support in the amendments, and I thank you in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. President, Mr. Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Members and fellow Members, the committee as a working mother has considered the draft law at its 17th regular session. The bill has been explained to the members as it does to all of us today, so I would not repeat anything. It should be said, however, that in addition to these current comments, the Secretariat has also had some principled comments and concrete comments in the area of the nomotechnical drafting of the law and has then resolved the amendment or amendment committee. Therefore, after discussion, the Committee adopted amendments to paragraphs 1, 3, 6 and introduced a new Article 9.a. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the draft law be considered together with the amendments adopted by the Committee and supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? Not at all. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mrs Ana Marija Tisovic will present the opinion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Our New Slovenia Group will support the law on subsidising student diet with amendments. We have also tabled an amendment to Article 8 of the proposal of this Act in order to clarify the provisions concerning beneficiaries. We add that they have the same right under the same article of the law, including the children who died as a result of the 1991 war injuries. The New Slovenia Group believes that the deadline should also be set for the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social and Disabled Persons to issue the instruction provided for in Article 3 of the Act. Allow me to give one more initiative on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. At the time of the overall tightening of the band due to the lack of budgetary resources, money could also be earmarked to improve the standard of students. Mainly, there are diets and student apartments. For some time we have been monitoring the work of student services through which students are employed to help themselves raise their standard. We know that these services remain about 10% of the student's earned money. These are not exactly negligible sums, but they are intended for various student programs. Many of these programs are known only by a handful of students, or this money robs us of strange ways that we can see in our media from time to time. I am therefore in favour of the initiative of the government, together with the students, to make more legal arrangements in this area, so that this money will be given to the largest number of students. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinion of the Group of Members. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented to us by Mrs Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the Ministry! Just for a little while. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we support the proposal for a second reading, and we hope that there will be a third treatment as soon as possible, as it is only a matter of legal regulation and otherwise well-ordered subjects, issues of student nutrition. We will support the amendments proposed by the government or the committee, as well as the amendment that regulates the dictatorship in more detail, with the first-signed candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. We have therefore heard the views of the members of the groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to five minutes. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of the individual articles of the bill. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments with date 22.3.2002 and date 23.4.2002. You also have two amendments from the New Slovenia Group, which are not in the review and you have them as an annex. Since most of the articles are amended, we will discuss and decide on non-amended articles without a procedural decision. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 2 to which no amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on Article 2. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 4 and on the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment to the amendment of the government, which is proposed by Mr Diaca and under 2 is the amendment of the government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment to the amendment under 1. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. The vote was 47, against no one.) [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the government's amendment under 2. Let's vote! The first vote on the government's amendment was not successful. I'm asking for your attention again. There's enough of us in the hall. This is the second time we've decided on the government's amendment. Let's vote! Since the second vote was not successful, I interrupt work for 10 minutes. We continue at 17.55 the third time we decide on the amendment of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Your Honor! For the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the Government to Article 4. The amendment of the Government to Article 4 is voted on for the third time. Let's vote! There are 57 of us present. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 4 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5, to which no amendment has been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on Article 5. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 5 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the three amendments to Article 6. There's two of them checked out, and one of them's on the bench. Under 1 we will decide on the amendment of the Government, under 2 on the amendment of the Committee and under 3 on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I am opening a debate on all three amendments and on Article 6. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. I would like to discuss the amendment tabled by the New Slovenia Group. This provision has already been introduced into the law at first reading. On the basis of the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters for first reading, we have then omitted this provision in some way from the applicants in the second reading. In this article, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs wrote: Although the text of the second paragraph is identical to the text of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the regulation in force so far, we believe that, given that the regulation has been adopted under the third paragraph of Article 2 of the Special Rights of Victims of War for Slovenia 1991, which states that I would quote the third paragraph of Article 2 of the Special Rights of Victims Act for Slovenia 1991, "the beneficiaries of the scholarship and the benefits of taking advantage in a student's or student's home and the right to cover the costs of the school meal are children who fall to secondary schools or have the status of a student, but for a maximum of 27 years of age". And now forward. This would suggest re-examine in terms of compliance with it. This is because the third paragraph of Article 2 of that Act recognises the right to cover the costs of a school meal for children who are regularly trained or who have the status of a student, but who are no longer 27 years of age. On this basis, we have also omitted this provision from the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u79	I would just like to give a further explanation as to what the reason was, in fact, leading the secretariat to such a resonation. This law regulates and explicitly states that it regulates the subsidisation of student diet, which is explicitly stated in Article 1. It states, "The right of students to subsidised student diet and method and criteria," now it will be "to subsidise." This is said to be true in this case, if it were to be extended to the complementary concept of the law, then some other categories that might be, I will say, justified by some subsidy, which should be reflected in the title as well as possibly reflected in the first and some other articles. Thus, from this point of view, we have opened up the problem of the concept of the law, which has been, from the very beginning, also with the title and Article 1, limited to subsidising explicitly student diets. The amendment speaks of students, apprentices or students. This means that, in fact, we should deal with some other acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Government representative Staša Baloh Plahutnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you. The Government does not oppose this amendment by content, given that this has already been established in the Student Food Subsidy Regulation. This is said to include these target groups as is currently the case. Thus, we estimate by content that this would not even extend the necessary financial resources, but I agree that, from the point of view of the substantive or, I would say, the award criteria would probably make sense, if the amendment were adopted, to introduce the necessary award criteria in the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we will vote on the amendment under order number 1 in the review, of which the government is the proposer. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under number one has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under number two. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 42 votes against 7. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 6. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 19 votes against 27. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the amendment of the Group of Members has not been adopted. We decide on Article 6 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against one. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 6 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 7, to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to decision on Article 7. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that Article 7 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 8 and an amendment that is not in the review, which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group. I am opening a debate on the amendment and the article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. It's 26 votes to 23. Mr. Janc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u83	I would ask because I was wrong about the vote if we could repeat the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u84	The proposal by Mr Janc, who raised his hand during the vote to re-vote, will be decided by the National Assembly. We must first decide on a proposal which, in accordance with the rules of procedure, is required to decide on the national assembly. We will decide on the proposal to repeat the vote. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 44 votes against 11. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to repeat the vote because the Member has made a mistake, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So we repeat the vote on the amendment to Article 8 which is proposed by the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. 21 votes against 36. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We decide on Article 8 as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. It's 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 8 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 9 which has not been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on Article 9. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 9 is fully adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment for the new A9 Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment and thus the new Article A 9 have been adopted. We therefore voted on the articles and amendments. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There are 57 of us present. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. I am also putting forward the next proposal for a decision in the debate. The draft law for third reading is prepared by the motioners, a group of Members with a first-signed Mark Diacja. Does anyone want to discuss this decision? As no, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal for a decision. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I find that that decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat very much for their cooperation. The 12th item of the agenda is the first consideration of the proposal for a bill on psychological activity. We've invited representatives of the State Council tomorrow, so we're going to go to trial 13. Agenda items - Defence draft law on the return of moisture to the public telecommunications network. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Here you go. Minister of the Information Society, Dr. Paula Gantar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u85	Madam Vice President! Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. The law fulfils the obligation under both the telecommunications laws of 1997 and 2001 to regulate the scope and manner of return to the public telecommunications network by means of a specific law. This marriage is now in front of us, as I said, and I believe that we are quite honest that none of you are particularly happy about it. For some, this law is unnecessary because they feel that there is no basis and that there is no need to return anything. For some, however, this law does not bring back much of what was expected or, as promised above all, to anyone else. However, the Government, in preparing the law, was of the essence that the obligation imposed by the law must be enforced, taking into account the principle of fairness, which applies both to the entities to which it is returned and also to the extent of the resources in respect of the period in which it has co-operated. As far as the beneficiaries are concerned, we have considered different options. Among other things, by restricting the law exclusively to those, in narration, 'investors' who have a contractual possibility of such or otherwise being reimbursed. Mostly blurry and wrapped in, as it were called, self-adjustment terminology. This would significantly reduce the number of beneficiaries, but in our view all those who, for such or other reasons, might be ignorant, well-intentioned or simply inadvertent, do not, in similar or similar circumstances, require such or similar determination in their contracts. With regard to the extent of return, which will certainly be an apple of the dispute, we have come from the following sources, which justify a reduced value of return on investments, given the periods in which individuals and local communities are involved, which law relates to, have contributed to the construction of this network. Firstly, it is absolutely clear that investments cannot be considered as a capital injection, as the beneficiaries did not invest them in order to obtain a profit, such as a share in profits, shares and the like. This, among other things, has not been possible in recent times, but this money has contributed to a faster access to certain services, such as the telephone. Under the current economic regulation, which was based in general on cheap infrastructure, not only in the telecommunications sector, but also in other sectors, from the public communication infrastructure of railways, if you like, even apartments. The activity of telephony has therefore never been a profitable activity, especially in the dispersed settlement structure. If it were different, the current PTT would of course be able to build a network of its own accumulation, as has been the case elsewhere in the world, but of course not. By the way, we've only recently come up with an approximate cost definition of the price of a phone impulse. This also suggests that, of course, the real value of the funds invested was not maintained through depreciation, but it was decreasing and, of course, the current PTT also had additional costs in the equipment that allowed new telephone subscribers to be connected. Today, too, telephony in a densely populated area, through a universal service mechanism, subsidizes telephony in areas of scattered telephony. And that's right. The legislator and the government, when they passed the Telecommunications Act, deliberately wanted this, because if we want to equalise the condition of communication accessibility in Slovenia, we need to ensure the universality of these services in this way. There are other contextual reasons that, of course, are against returning investments in full. One of such contextual reasons, which is particularly noticeable in the last year and a half, is that, according to very reliable sources, such as the Financial Times expert analysis, the value of telecoms in general decreased to 70 per cent during this period. Of course this does not apply to Slovenian Telekom, but in general. Particularly over-indebted telecoms have significantly reduced this value. All of this is justified by our starting point in the preparation of this law, which is simply embodied in Article 4, in order to determine the amount of reimbursement from the basis defined in Article 4 in the first paragraph, it is said that we shall deduct from this amount any unpaid connection and any unpaid contribution to the SIS in question and then reduce this return on a certain scale in the light of the time that this investment took place. Those who have invested in earlier years are fewer returnees and those who have contributed later are more returned. I will not, honourable Members, explain the technical details of the law, which are carefully thought out and will allow a relative and easy return of investments through the written settlement institution. In this respect, in particular, I would point out that the beneficiary does not agree to the settlement on the basis of this calculated amount as provided for by law, he may initiate proceedings before the competent court for the amount he considers justified. Therefore, we have not deprived any of this law of the judicial path to enforce this amount of the jugular that it is justified. The technical and technical tasks are carried out by the Commission set up by the Board of the Restructuring and Privatisation Agency, but, of course, the funds for the return of these investments will be created from the purchase of Telekom in privatisation and collected in a special fund as provided for in Article 11 of the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The draft law was regarded by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the committee, Mr. Ferry Horvat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u87	Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, Madam Secretary or Mr Rogelj, representing the secretariat, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will report as soon as possible, because you have a report from the committee in writing and it would be right not to waste too much time, so that we adopt the law as soon as possible, so that the beneficiaries can also get the money that this law will provide them with as soon as possible. The Committee on the Economy considered the draft law, 13th, 20th and 21.3. In addition to the bill, the members of the committee received the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, the reply to the opinion of the secretariat by the Ministry of Information Society, the amendments of the SDS and New Slovenia Group of Members, the amendment of Parliamentary colleague William Trophynik, the comments and proposals and the proposal of the amendments of the all-Slovenian association of beneficiaries for return to the telecommunications network and the letter of the association of municipalities, and subsequently, as you have probably all Members and Members of Parliament received, we also received a number of documents, from the declaration of the association supporting the adoption of the law, to a number of expressions of support that we received from the mayors of individual municipalities, even from some local communities, we received a special statement for the public of the Coalition of Slovenia and other documents not to mention everyone. Already in the debate on the committee to which we invited, in addition to the proposer, the secretariat, including interested representatives of the association, and in the debate, which was long, also controversial, different opinions were expressed by Committee members. After the general discussion, in view of the considerable number of comments made by the secretariat in its opinion, we also suspended the hearing and proposed that the proposer, together with the secretariat, study the comments, examine the general debate on the Committee and, on this basis, draw up a proposal from the amendments. This was also done. The Committee has adopted a number of amendments that you have in the report and in the review. The Committee also supported the amendment of the Coalition of Slovenia to Article 8 and the amendment of Parliamentary colleague Trofenik. To conclude, the Committee proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt a proposal for a fast-track law, together with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u89	Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Finally, in the National Assembly, we received a law on the return of overpaid amounts for the development of telephony. The case is not from yesterday, because the Constitutional Court's decision is years old and the decision in the National Assembly, when we passed the Telecommunications Act, is over six months old. At that time, we wrote in that law that the government would submit a special law to the National Assembly within six months to determine the return of these payments. Well, today is the law before us. The Minister briefly presented it, just as the law itself is short, but not as simple as it seems at first sight. The Minister said that the public opinion on this matter of return was different, especially dual, that those who thought there was no need to return. Of course, I would add to that that we understand, those who have not submitted anything think so, that's for sure. And of course, others who say that these funds must be recovered and that the amounts that the government has foreseen in this law are absolutely too small. On behalf of our Group of Members, I would say that the law is the same as it is, especially the law of another fraud. Just as the Slovenians and the Slovenians have been deceived many times before, so will this law. Thus, what many citizens and citizens have paid will be owned. In the end, some structure will become the owner of this. Otherwise, we're used to it. Just as a good part of the insurance company’s capital was granted to certain individuals a long time ago, so it happened with banks, so it will also happen under this law. I only hope that the final story of this law, even when the law is adopted quickly, as you suggest and as you are in this national assembly, as far as the coalition is concerned, will be used to probably finding another way. Talking about contracts that did not have defined returns is, of course, illogical. But who in 1974 continued to think that once socialism is over, that we will once be defined as capitalist social order in this country, and that everything that is ours, which is social, which is common, will once be owned. Of course, no one thought about it at the time, and neither did anyone allow such requirements to be entered into a contract. That is why, Mr Minister, it is illogical to speak of this. It's illogical to talk about. We will probably repeat this to you several times during the adoption of this law. I don't know if you're gonna get caught. That PTT didn't build out of its own accumulation - of course not. They concluded that it was possible to build this matter with the capital of individuals who were keenly interested in acquiring this great good - a telephone, which, of course, everyone today wears in his pocket and no longer means what it meant in those years when the phone was difficult to reach. At the post office, they realized that people were willing to pay a lot of money in order to do so, and they built these post offices, telephone centers, with multiple connections. All those who later joined these centres actually paid the same amounts as those who built these centres. The centres were re-assembled; if it turned out to be too small, then people gave up money again and replaced it and increased it. The smaller post office built it somewhere else, a smaller place, and sold it there as dearly as possible. If we went to explore these things, we would get a very long and pleasant story and a story, and we could see how, in fact, in a post office as a state institution, they were exploiting this desire and the position we were in when we actually wanted to follow Western European countries in development. What Telekom’s value is, of course, is unknown because the government does not allow Telekom’s shares to be quoted on the stock exchange; if they were quoted on the stock exchange, the value would be known, and so on to say that this value is not such and such, of course, is very difficult. The public is familiar with stories about how the Supervisory Board once voted to go on the stock exchange and that the second time under your pressure, it had to call off its decision. Otherwise, you've already made an effort as a department minister to make sure that the composition of these organs was appropriate, as it were, I'd say, as you wish. The technical details in this law, which you spoke about, are carefully thought out, so, of course, we believe you - are so thoughtful that those who are entitled to it will not eventually receive anything or anything much. If I say, for example, those who have invested in the years 1974 to 1980 should receive a refund of 20% of that value if, of course, the relevant documentation is submitted to this agency. That would mean someone who paid 5,000 German marks. [[I speak in stamps because these amounts were all written and contracts concluded in stamps, which is good that today we can have some idea of how much it cost]] I'd get 20%, that's 1,000 marks, and we'd deduct his connection, which he didn't pay the SIS or the mail back then. If we translate it that the connections were relatively high at the time, it means that 1,000 of these brands would not get anything. Such is the technical regulation of this law. However, if something small were to happen to him, then it would have to be agreed before the defence, but if he did not agree, the law is already going to the court, which is, of course, in all the judicial backlogs that we have in the country, illogically that the law is already regulating matters so that many will seek their right in the courts. We find such a law extremely controversial and lacking. In New Slovenia, we are aware that the country has no money and that in these two, if I say so in pronouns, the "volume" units, which are happily called KAD and SODs, have to be continuously watered to maintain somehow a level, sufficient level of resources in these two containers. However, the government should see if it is possible that only these matters are not leaving too much and that certain funds are being lost here. Of course, we are asked what will happen when there is no longer anything to fill in these two institutions when this property is running out and whether it will then be possible to count on some normal payment of pensions and other obligations that these two companies must provide under law. The recovery has already been defined by the Constitutional Court in the time of the Bajuk government. When the Telecommunications Act was drafted, these returnees were taken to the marriage. Another option was then put to the vote in this national assembly. Under the pressure of an association of beneficiaries, you have pledged to prepare within six months a special law that is before us today. So it's really hard to agree to this thesis that they weren't capital injections. We could agree on this if, of course, Telekom continued to have some state property if it were not for Telekom's ownership today and, in fact, will eventually come into full private hands. That the funds have been depreciated, and there is no way that we can agree to this thesis, as an opposition party. It's about the same as if a cab driver bought a new Mercedes and he'd been doing his job for 10 years, and then he'd return it after 10 years and say, "The car's amortized," and he'd keep his mouth shut, and he'd earn three new ones in the meantime. So, Mr Minister, such an explanation, you can sell it, but you will not be able to convince the Slovenian public with this matter, but certainly not us Members of the opposition, that it is rural areas where Telekom has lost. In addition to paying the price of impulses, we still pay some special costs in the account. I always thought that it was actually that part, I don't know what it's called, connection or amortisation, or what is that part that currently amounts to more than 2,000 or about 2,000 Slovenian tolars. Thus, it is also likely that one part of this loss that is created through the system that you say brings loss. There is certainly a comparison, or explanation, of how we will return if return is required in other areas because of our self - contributions, including schools, roads. This comparison is inappropriate, for schools and municipal, local, local roads will never actually be owned by anyone. I guess not. However, if the pipelines or other utilities are to be owned, then of course I expect them to be owned in the same way as they were invested in these funds. We certainly expect the government, the proposer, to have a fair conversation with the beneficiary society. The request of beneficiaries is fair. The beneficiaries only require what they have invested, without revolving, without interest. They also do not require all that payment for the work invested. You know, there's a lot of phone water and the "stangs" and they've been doing and doing it on their own. They made a fair offer, even agreed to agree to only 80% of this return. If you are unable to agree with the beneficiaries in this way, as far as our Group of Members is concerned, we will vote against it. However, we have already made it public several times that if the beneficiaries opt for a referendum, in this gathering, either the collection of 40,000 signatures or the collection of 30 Members' signatures, we will cooperate and, in fact, we will also support that such a difficult matter as the return of too much funds for the development of telephony should be decided at the referendum. For we are not in favour of harming a good part of our population in a way like this, especially the one in the countryside, which is actually through this whole socialist social order that we have witnessed in the past 50 years, living in this country as a second-rate citizen, and that is why they had to make a lot of arrangements for themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, the House of Respect! I will present to you the position of the Socialist Party's Group on the proposal for a law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network. Finally, but with a few months' delay, the government has tabled a bill into a legislative procedure that is supposed to allow reimbursement of investments to those who have contributed more to the telephone connection than the average cost in urban environments. The main issue was the large financial, real and physical contributions made by individuals and, in part, by local communities, particularly in the rural areas needed to obtain telephone connections. The content of the bill's proposal, according to the Socialist Party's Group of Members, is not what we could reasonably expect. We are convinced that this legislative proposal allows for the continuation of the multi-annual circumvention and misappropriation of beneficiaries. The consideration and conduct of coalition members in the consideration of the legal proposal on the working body also shows that the government, as a bill-maker, intends to play the beneficiaries. The legislative proposal, by means of amendments to the coalition members, fully deviates from the stated objectives and principles that have been written down to the applicant. This is to uniformly regulate the way and the process of returning investments to the public telecommunications network and equalising the conditions and manner of return, irrespective of geographical location and the time of acquisition of the connection. It is more than obvious that the government, as the proposer and Members of the ruling coalition, has no interest and will to ensure that the return of beneficiaries is fully and fairly regulated. On the basis of these facts, the Constitutional Court’s decision to regulate the return on investments is also taken into account. The bill provides that, only after the final ownership of Telekom Slovenije d.d., investors should be reimbursed from 20 to 40 per cent of the deposits for the investment period from 1974 to 1995, i.e. for different periods a different percentage, but not less than 20 and not more than 40 of what was actually invested. The government excuses and excuses such a low proposed percentage of the refund by the fact that this is not a capital investment that would yield returns. At the same time, reports on the business of Telekom Slovenije d.d. show that this public undertaking has shown high profits in recent years. Along with the subsidiary of Mobiltel, profits for the last year have been estimated at almost 11 billion tolars. This shows, however, that these investments did have or are still yielding a certain capital return. Therefore, the legitimate facts are still decisive and I think that this must help solve the problem. There is also concern about the recapitalisation of Mobil with a foreign partner and the re-establishment of Telekom's privatisation by the government, which has already led to a large decline in Telekom's shares. The stockbrokers themselves are appalled at the forecast of the recapitalisation of Mobilel past Telekom's shareholders and estimate that the recapitalisation of Mobilel by current Telekom shareholders is a common injury, as Mobil is, after all, a golden chicken and if sold, only an empty nest remains. This means that due to the government's way of privatising Telekom and recapitalising Mobilell, there remains a great deal of fear that beneficiaries will not get too much of their paid interest in telephone connections in all these speculations. Together, about 10 billion tolls were to be invested in investors after this proposal, which is a small one, since there was a substantial increase, more precisely, in several times the amount of funds invested. In particular, investment was made by those who lived in remote areas. It is incontrovertible, and it is tragic, that the least of those who had the least invested were the least, and they are supposed to have the least of them now. The 10 billion dollars the government has foreseen for recovery is, if compared to profits in this company, less than one year's profit for Telekom along with the subsidiary Mobil. In the opinion of the Socialist Party's Group, this is actually a government fire-fighting measure that seeks to formally meet the requirements of the investor and the Members we have advocated. In fact, the government wants to eliminate a number of investors who have contributed in some way to the construction of the public telephone network. The bill before us once again exposes and points to the Government's ruthless indigestion towards rural areas, the government's attitude towards the outskirts where it undisputedly resides and lives the most beneficiaries. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we will endeavour to take as much account as possible of the legitimate requirements of the All-Slovenian Association of Beneficiaries for the return of investments in the telecommunications network and will endeavour to implement the following amendments and additions. In our view, the basis for the recovery of investments by individuals or local communities should be the contractual value increased by the work made and the material contribution made when they themselves built certain parts of the infrastructure which they transferred free of charge to the then PTT organisation. We are committed to returning to all beneficiaries from 1974 onwards the entire basis or total amount of overpayment. The government proposal only provides for a refund of 20 to 40 % of the cartridge, depending on the time of the connection. It is unfair to bear the burden of depreciating the public network only on the shoulders of contracting entities that have already invested excessively in one way or another, while those who have paid for normal connections would not be burdened by some depreciation. This would be in sharp contrast to the basic objective and purpose of the law, which, according to the motioners, is to align the conditions for obtaining a telephone connection. We will also endeavour to implement additions to the individual articles of the bill, which would specify the beginning and duration of the return, which are not determined by the proposed legal provisions. The government begins the return and the time of the return of the departure to a distant and undetermined future related to the actual privatisation of Telekom d.d. The approach to solving this problem, for which no deadline has been defined, is unrestrained and misleading, and raises questions about the sincerity and credibility of the proposer and trust in the rule of law. As such, the bill also provides for a very complicated procedure when making the recovery request itself and the unreasonablely long decision-making time. We're going to make sure these hands get as short as possible. For all these reasons, we ask and propose that you support our amendments tabled in the SDS Group of Members, because only by adopting these amendments would they achieve the objectives in accordance with the Constitutional Court decision and the objectives set out in this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. The issue of the return on investment of local communities and residents in the construction of the telecommunications network has already arisen in the adoption of the telecommunications law. Due to the various opinions of an extremely pressing issue, the National Assembly, in 156.a. of the Telecommunications Act, has committed the Government to draw up a new law within six months which will cover only this area. This deadline was delayed by the proposer, i.e. the government, which is certainly not an honour for the rule of law. The law was supposed to resolve the way of returning decades ago to the Slovenian telephone of the invested money, work and material resources. That money had to count down all those who wanted to have a phone at home. The more their home was away from more centers, the more money they had to contribute. All these inputs in the draft law are not properly evaluated, as we do not agree that investors receive only 20 to 40% of the funds invested. This is supposed to be about 10 billion tolars, which represents only a small part of the purchase that the government will try to recover when selling its stake in Telekom Slovenije. The refund would need to be allocated substantially more resources than the possibility to consider the reimbursement of costs in the form of shares, and we believe that the invested funds can be understood as a capital contribution in the then PTT or its legal successor, Telekom Slovenije. At the meeting of the Committee on the Economy, we also did not get a clear answer from the proposaler as to how the contracts were. Refunds shall be calculated on the basis of contracts concluded by local communities or natural persons from 1974 to 1995 by the then PTSD. We strongly doubt that all local communities, and even fewer citizens, still keep these treaties. At that time, no one could have imagined that in 20 or 30 years, PTSD or its successor would be owned. According to the proposal of the law, Telekom Slovenije is obliged to provide data and to provide insight into the documentation relating to the return of investments, if it has these data, of course. There is no legal basis, however, which would oblige Telekom Slovenije, as the legal successor of PTT, to maintain such contracts for 30 years. We fear that if all these contracts cannot be traced, not all beneficiaries will be able to recover from them, and that the law will create new injustices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. When Mr Minister began his speech, he mentioned the word "justice". If I wasn't used to it, I'd be stressed. Where is this justice? I don't know. He mentioned that time was at stake, as I understood that those who invested so much money would get only 20% to 40%. So this is the same as I would like to borrow some money from the minister, say 1000 marks, and after 20 years of late interest, I change the sign and then return it to him just 200 marks. I don't know, Minister, if you're up for this, we can make a deal like this today, I'll be very grateful. What are capital injections? We're not naive enough to know what capital injections are. I would not like to repeat everything Mr Sok, my colleague, has already mentioned. If the money is invested as an investment in fixed assets and is immediately marketed, they are first of all subscribers, impulses and so on, which they put on PTSD as they wanted, as they wanted because they had a monopoly. Now it is said that this is not a capital investment and that this is not an depreciation. Please! It is said that since the first day you consciously went to a total loss "for our sake", here of course I am speaking in quotes. Now this money has to come back from the budget, if, now we have to knock on the Members' conscience to say, yes, we can't just spend the money from the budget. We know and also the public that the external debt is over $7 billion, that the internal debt is, I don't know, close to 5 billion, that the internal reserves are very small, that the budget deficits are bigger and larger each year, and that the country is in a collapse that now needs to be resolved in all nice ways. The government has been in charge of this policy for ten years, and now we have to save the country with such little things. I don't know what else to add to this - that all those who will vote for this law will feel sorry for me, to say the least, because they know what they're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Look, I would like to give two more examples in support of the positions that I have already made on behalf of the parliamentary group on what conditions and how the environment from which I come came came to the telephone connection, so that the picture is as clear as possible, because it is simply now happening that those who paid for the telephone connection or for the acquisition of a telephone connection have no normal, human price today, which is also perfectly normal, do not show any undue interest in the fate of this law, which is in the procedure. In that part of the Savinij Valley, which is on one side of the Dobrovelje Planoto, on the other side of the Zasavské hill, which is extremely fragmented and very displaced, at that time the local community of Tabor, today it was a municipality that invested 9,000 marks in order to obtain a telephone connection together with a self-contribution by number at that time, without input and material, and not in the 70s, 80s or 90s, but a practical year or two before independence, that is to say, the end of the 1980s. People are there in a desire for progress, not to act on the phone, put in - and in need on the phone, because I think that those farmers in the highly displaced area of the Zasavska hill, which, by the way, has already cleared up to three quarters - how much telephone connection is needed, literally from the hands and mouth they have ripped off the strong money, they have been bloated with voluntary work here, all the excavations, on dozens of drugs and other parts - that they have come to some civil goods. Back then, our country was already dealing with an extremely high number of phone connections to, I think, 100 inhabitants or whatever. However, no one wondered under what conditions, how in particular areas of Slovenia and those of the poorest, the most endangered were telephone connections. In addition to that contribution, the local community has set up a good part of the self-contribution they have voted for. Today, the government's proposal offers a minimum to remedy this injustice. Minimum. Why the minimum? See, this local community is typical because it had to build a central connecting cable across the infrastructure of a very transport area that not only served their needs, but also served to transfer information - today not only by telephone, but something else - in the good part of this valley. And to eliminate all these investors with 35 percent or 30 percent of the stake, without taking into account the work and material resources invested, would be extremely critical and irregular, even unethical. It's about correcting some injustice that's happened to these people, it's also happened at their will, and that's what you have to say, people wanted to have something more than life, they wanted to make progress -- to pay an abnormally high price for it. Look, I've listed only one of the most violent examples in the environment that I know, I could quote even more, even after 12 or more thousand marks, individuals have paid, without input and material; for getting to the phone connection. I could give you a bunch of cases like this. I am confident that it will prevail, that it will prevail, that it will prevail, and that we will achieve something more. It is a compromise - I will immediately - I know that it is a compromise; no one can really return this deposit, but it is a compromise, for one remedy of injustices. But I think we can get very close to the surreal value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much for the word - although the clock is running out, nevertheless. Respectable all together. First of all, I cannot go past this, of course, that I could not really, at the very first moment of the Minister, commend him for having been able to do so much and that he has submitted this proposal to the National Assembly at all, that he has fulfilled at least some of the promises he made in the adoption of the Telecommunications Act, or that he has respected, to some extent, the decision of the Constitutional Court. This must have been a positive act. And here she deserves a commendation. Secondly, of course, what is the content of this bill. In fact, I personally believe that the real beneficiaries of this law have in the past contributed greatly with their own resources to the fact that, if I say so, telephone communications have developed rapidly over a period of time. No one in this country can deny that fact. Certainly, without the input of individuals, telephone systems in our country would never have developed as quickly as possible, and even then this successful statistics that we have presented to the world and Europe would not have been what it was. If anyone denies it, it's not fair. What I have said many times, I firmly believe that today's beneficiaries under this proposal of law would never have demanded these funds back if only the ownership structure of this company or that institution remained the same as it was at the beginning when these funds were invested. However, if, of course, there has been a change in the system and if ownership changes have occurred or there will be, and so on, and so on, it is certainly entirely justified, as we have all found long ago, and the government has also recognised by submitting a bill to the National Assembly that those who have invested excessively in telephone connections and this system are entitled to a return. My personal assessment is that this proposal, proposed by the government, is between 20% and 40% of the cost-recovery rate, minus the average cost of the connection in an area, is too low and that investors would certainly deserve a higher percentage of the return. In fact, if we think that this was some kind of investment, let's say - even though you don't recognize it as an investment, but I think that everyone, certainly this money by individuals, would invest more than the poor many times if individuals invested, say, some long-term investment, you can go ahead and calculate today how much such or other capital you could have. What we would get back - not 20 to 40%, I do not agree with this, this percentage must be at least nominally 100%, as we have suggested - would, of course, be in some other circumstances or if this were actually a capital investment, this stake would certainly be significantly higher. And not just that! I think that investors have also contributed to the general economic progress of the country by investing huge amounts of money in telecommunications or in telephone installations and telephone connections and thus contributed to the country's rapid development. I firmly believe that economic effects are measurable here or, at least, must be recognised, should not be ignored and ignored. That is why I expect, as the beneficiaries require - I have been at a number of round tables or public tribunals where we have discussed these things with citizens - citizens too, and I expect this percentage of returns to be higher. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-14-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u100	Thank you. I do not think that all those who wanted to discuss came into line, so we will continue tomorrow and I will not conclude the general debate. Tomorrow, at 2 p.m., we will continue the meeting with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which is limited to tomorrow's date. Then we will move on to the just interrupted 13th item of the agenda and then to the 12th item, then to the 14th point and on the agenda. Thank you all so much and good night!
