ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Alojz Peterle, Feri Horvat, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti, Ivan Kebrič, Jožef Jerovšek, Bogdan Barovič, Slavko Gaber, Janez Kramberger, Blaž Kavčič, Jaša Zlobec Lukič, Cyril Pucko, Mihael Brejc, Roman Jakič, Jurij Malovra, Leopold Grošelj for the afternoon part of the session, Janko Weber for the start of the session and Silva Črnugelj for the morning part of the session. Since we will determine the presence in the Chamber, please insert the cards and, of course, continue, since our fellow Members, which are some of them on the Association Committee in Brussels, please let those who are here try to do their work in the National Assembly, as much as they are in the full composition. Since we're going to find out the presence, I'd like you to put your cards back in. The number on the screen does not show me any data that could satisfy us and enable us to make a valid decision. Colleagues and colleagues who have not yet joined us, please join us. Your Honor! Your Honor! There are 48 of us in the hall, so again I ask you to check your card card availability, because it makes no sense that I am beginning to detect the presence of data that is on the screen, that only 43 cards are inserted. So, there's enough of us in the hall, so please, let's all press the "quorum" button so that this will be reflected in the number. We're picking up the presence in the hall! We're picking up the presence! There are 46 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. Today's continuation of the 17th session of the National Assembly will begin with the adjourned hearing yesterday on agenda item 14, which is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of money laundering. The assembly will then move on to the 12th item, this is a proposal for a law on public gatherings, and in order to move forward. As announced, the assembly will hold its first meeting this afternoon, these are questions and initiatives by Members and Members. So we're moving on to yesterday's break of 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Money Prevention Act. As part of the rapid procedure, we discontinued work yesterday as part of the general debate. I invite yesterday's interrupted Mr Klaudi Strolig to give Members and Members answers to their questions. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, honourable Members and honourable Members! Given that the questions have been something, I will try to reach out to everyone, not necessarily to answer each other individually, but to those common points that have been raised by several Members, I will try to answer together. One of these was yesterday's topic and yesterday's question of what this law is affecting. Let me repeat what I said yesterday that this law does not address the problems of police work, the prosecution and the courts, so it does not address the problems of police investigations or prosecutions and prosecutions, which you were quite critical of yesterday. And one of the possible solutions you yourself mentioned in your debate was whether the reverse burden of proof could make the system more effective. As far as the reverse evidentiary burden is concerned. As I said before, this is not a reliable topic of this law, it is a very important topic. This is not an international standard, I stress. It is true that some countries, some earlier, some later, have gone this way in Europe. Above all, it is the countries with the "common law" system, it is said, and the United States in the European work of the United Kingdom, which is now being followed by other members of the European Union. This is a topic that we would like to address and intend to regulate in the Criminal Procedure Act. Let me say that the recommendations of the Council of Europe, the experts of the Council of Europe, go in this direction. As I have already mentioned, the draft report will be discussed at the meeting next week. And one of the proposals to enable more efficient work by the judicial authorities is also a dilemma with regard to the reverse burden of proof. Of course, I don't want to go into details about that right now. Let me tell you why this dilemma is not so general. Because it also interferes with human rights. As you know, in criminal law, the principle of determining the material truth, as soon as you change it, of course, you open it, you might say, Pandora's Box. And that doesn't just mean good, sometimes it can mean bad. That is why I think that this debate, how far to go, when to go on the reverse burden of proof, will be necessary, first at the professional level - I think it is already going on - and then also in Parliament. With regard to the question addressed by Mr Podobnik, it is related to the implementation of the article adopted last year by this Parliament and entered into force on 25 October last year, but it concerns the work of the Office in the field of prevention and the work of the Office in the field of regulatory proposals, to say that, despite the fact that this has become an obligation only last October, we have already been very active in this area because the system must first be set up so that the rules allow as little discretion as possible to allow arbitration, but that we should be very clear; in particular, this applies to criminal regulations. I'll go through what we've been reporting to the government. Last year, the Office devoted the main part of its time to drafting a law on the prevention of money laundering and debates and also to preparing all four sub-legislative acts adopted under the law within time limits. Let me say that this is not exactly a practice in this country, but I can say that we have ensured this in this area. In addition, important work has also been done in the comments we have made [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] to a government regulation concerning the logistics of the handling of temporarily seized items. Something more about this further, given that Mr Jelinčič had a question about possible lawsuits concerning temporarily seized items. In addition, we made comments and proposals on the amendment of the Offences Act last year. As far as I know, a number of articles are being dealt with in Parliament. We have also worked with concrete proposals to address the law on state administration, particularly in relation to the independence and position of the organs in the composition, even in the light of what you did yesterday, I think that Mr Bernik has highlighted the issues of independence, the autonomy of such bodies. I think that the solutions set out in the Law on State Administration, and also those in the Law on Public Servants, are going in this direction. Whether they go far enough is, of course, a question. I can say that we have actively cooperated primarily in trying to ensure in this area the independence of the organs in the composition that is necessary, regardless of which authorities will become involved in future regulation. It is about human and financial autonomy, as well as self-reliance in making decisions in specific matters, all that the current system has made possible. We have also been involved in commenting on concrete proposals for a law on the incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a profitable activity and on the control of the assets of officials. This law is still in a professional debate, I think, within individual ministries. As you know, we have worked very intensively in the office in the previous years in the field of preventing corruption and detecting corruption, so that this has been done in this context of ethical standards, which are also supposed to be included in this law. We have also been involved in drafting a law on corporate income tax with some ideas. Furthermore, in preparing the Convention on the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism, given that this Convention was signed last year. We have participated in the translation of this Convention, in the assessment of whether and what will have to be aligned in our legislation with this Convention. I can say that we have been very actively involved in the commission for the drafting of the law on criminal proceedings. The amendments you have adopted in this House this year, linked to an intervention in banking secrecy related to the handling of temporarily seized items, have been prepared in our office, together with the Ministry of Justice. And of course, I could also mention the government's regulations on measures against the Taliban and the drafting of a law on amendments and additions to the restrictive measures law, which I think is at this meeting. We've been involved in this marriage, too. In order not to go too far into detail, in 2000, I should mention the area of the criminal law convention on corruption. This convention was coming and we brought it from the Council of Europe to say on the professional side right from the office. We have participated in the preparation of both the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, in the ratification of the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption, in the signing, in the preparation of material for the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, in the establishment of the Anti-Corruption Office, since we are also members of the Government Commission for the preparation of the regulation set up by that body and are, of course, ready to continue to do so. That's it. Of course, I could also list certain other regulations, the Bank of Slovenia Act, which was adopted yesterday, we also participated in some articles, but before that, the Law on the Responsibility of Legal Persons for Crimes, the Law on Foreign Business, and so on, that I will not go too far. However, we also issued 10 opinions last year on the implementation of the law on money laundering prevention. I hope that this has been comprehensive enough on this issue. The next thing, the question raised, I think, also by Mr Podobnik, that this law not only brings new obligations, but also brings some reliefs, would especially highlight the benefits brought by the law on gambling and insurance. So first - why make it easy? Because the new directive, which has not yet been regulated by the Act on the Prevention of Money Laundering as a liability for the implementation of the Act on the Prevention of Money Laundering, now regulates it. And this new directive just sets some of the standards that we set in Slovenia in 1994 and 1995, including casinos, if you want casinos and other gambling players. These standards are now very similar to those set by us, similar to those set by the directive, by duplicating themselves in a certain part. You know that in Slovenian casinos customer identification is mandatory at the entrance to the casino. That's not what happened. This was not the standard in this and many casinos you still have in the world today, even in the European Union, where this identification was not made at the entrance, but only in relation to transactions. By also trying to do something in this area, avoid double identification. Therefore, if the parties are identified at the entrance, they should be able, with all the information required by this law, which is more extensive than those currently being collected, therefore also in the transitional provisions of the law, to 90 days so that casinos in Slovenia can be trained for computer monitoring of customers, including with these data, additional information required by the law on money laundering prevention. On the other hand, it is not necessary to duplicate this identification in certain transactions, especially when playing on the tables, because what is happening in relation to money laundering is happening on the cashier's rules and these exchanges are taking place on the cash register. Here, of course, the system is very clear and very strict and consistent. It is the same in the area of insurance. I can say that this area in Slovenia, if I let go of the other debates in this area on money laundering, is not so interesting or if I go to see eight-year data, we have not had any service in this sector, nor has any foreign service in Slovenia detected that money laundering is taking place in this sector in Slovenia. It can be other crimes, from fraud and so on, I will not now mention property and similar things, but not money laundering. Therefore, the reasons why the whole sector, with all, of the assets and so on, would be covered consistently with all the tasks that impose a lot of work on those insurance intermediaries without any effect and without this problem being, I will say, very exposed, of course, it made no sense. Not particularly because the directive in this area has made it easier for all Member States of the European Union to concentrate on two areas. The real area of life insurance and the area, but mainly two areas, which are also mentioned and covered in the law; now I don't remember how we set up this solution. So much for relief. As I say, nothing is lost with this, it is a logical relief, the reliefs are logical, and we will also relieve these two sectors of what is superfluous in this system. We did this in part with certain sectors, if you remember, last year when we passed a law on the prevention of money laundering. The question raised by Mr Bernick, and I think that Mr Kelemina, too, is about the position of the office. I think there has been quite a lot of talk in Parliament about this since last year, I think even an amendment has been proposed to report to Parliament, not to the government and so on. Last year I served with information on how this area is regulated in the world. Look. Fourteen days ago there was a total of 69 offices in the world with the same function as ours. It means that it meets the definition of "financial intelligence unit", as they say. Out of 69 offices, more than 70% of the bodies are composed of ministries of finance. In part, there are few who are in police custody, very few who are so-called mixed models, where they are the founders of either the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of the Interior or the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. You have, I think, in Europe, only two offices that belong to the central bank, that is, the central bank; this is the Italian office and the Spanish office, for example, where they could say that these are departments within an independent institution. Of course, all of this indicates that this model, which we have already selected in Slovenia in 1994, is a "tender" model, is a majority model, bearing the most results. Of course, he has some weaknesses compared to the police model, mixed, but he doesn't have to look at what he's wearing, most of the stuff he wears best. With regard, of course, to the position of the Office, if this office remains in the future body, this is, of course, a matter for the government to decide on under the State Administration Act. I think that the discussions that have taken place so far on this subject have shown that there is no reason not to be an independent organ in the body, I think, as has been arranged so far, to hold water. Human resources financial autonomy allows the President of the Office to decide on matters which are important, individually, work on specific matters; it is not allowed to be interfered with by anyone, nor by the Minister, according to the rules so far, nor by the future. Therefore, the body within the body is the one making specific decisions on its own. This has been the case so far, and it is also supposed to be in the future according to the regulations you have recently adopted. So if, of course, this status remains that way, there is no reason not to maintain this position even in the future. The superstandard, which is already in place in the system and does not change it, is that the office not only reports to the minister, but to report to the government. Directly to the government. So this is something that, I'll say, gives him some specificity and, of course, consenting to autonomous cooperation with foreign authorities abroad and cooperating with other offices. In this regard, the question was also raised: What is this cooperation with other offices? We have indeed mentioned in the recitals to this law that the office is one of the most active offices in the world. That we are the founding members of the EGMOND Group, which brings together, as I said, 69 offices. Let me commend you. Fourteen days ago, the Slovenian office was elected to the presidency, the first elected Bureau of the offices, as one of the two representatives of Europe. All of this shows, of course, this thing in the international arena is not accidental. It's no accident, they don't give you anything abroad just like that, or they say, "Because you're Slovenian." But that is why it is necessary, of course, to have results, both in legislation and also, I will say, in practice. If I go specifically to the billiards, last year, for example, we exchanged data on our request with twenty-one countries in the seventies. We received 21 applications from five countries. In 2000, we exchanged data with twenty countries in forty-four cases. So, we didn't send in an application. We received 27 requests from ten different countries. All of this shows you that, of course, the frequency of everyday work abroad, not only with neighbouring countries and European countries, but also with many countries from South America, the Caribbean, etc., is what is part of the daily work of the office. I can view this work as good and supportive. Next, the issue raised with regard to legal persons, the ability to identify data on legal persons. Very briefly. Of course, we don't choose matters that come to us. Sometimes there's more than one natural person, sometimes there's more legal persons. I can only say that the employees of the office are capable and trained well enough to know and learn about businesses, both domestic and foreign. That schemes, of course, which are sometimes dealt with in specific matters, are very complicated. They go to a lot of countries in "offshore" companies, trusts, foundations, etc. I think that the results, even if I give you just one piece of information, give the seized money to legal persons abroad in Slovenia at the request of the Slovenian judicial authorities, are quite something to say that this is the information that I will say is going in the opposite direction, as was the Member's claim. Perhaps only cooperation with other authorities. It's part of the substance of this marriage. I can tell you, cooperation with the police and the State Prosecutor's Office in all these years is good. Problems on the part of some other authorities are problems that are often objective in nature. Speaking of which, let's say it's a problem that the police haven't been able to specialize a single person in money laundering in all these years. This is a data that, of course, says in itself that this cooperation can sometimes be difficult because knowledge is not on the other hand, the one that could be accompanied by the work of fifteen people in the office, which is very specialized. At the level of the prosecution, as you know, there is a special group of prosecutors for special cases. This deals with about 80% of money laundering issues and is specialised enough and has sufficient knowledge for this area. So cooperation is good every day and it's going well. At the level of the courts, specialisation is a matter that is unfortunately not sufficient, you do not have specialised judges who would judge only matters related to money laundering or economic crime. So this is a dilemma that needs to be resolved in other regulations and not in these. So much for that. Of course, the differences in opinions between different institutions are and will be. Sometimes they also help to make the solution better in the end, not necessarily bad. Perhaps, despite the fact that Mr. Noble is not here, there is only one answer. I wouldn't go down to his level, considering he was very insulting and was talking about famous inspections. By the way, in the case of Slovenia, those of us who participated in it in 1991 finished our work, so we issued 32 criminal charges. Neither did one prosecution fail. I do not remember, in 50 years in Slovenia there is not a single action in which no indictment of 32 would have been dropped. Two key issues are at the trial stage. Why the court takes eight years to come to trial is, of course, an issue that you will have to address to other authorities, not the office. However, a number of convictions have already been issued in less important matters within this case, so that the key accreditation cases are being tried, and as far as I know. Regarding the burden of the lawsuits, and this is my last point, Mr Jelinčič mentioned that we are not aware of what will happen to Slovenia if we go into these regulations. First of all, this law doesn't regulate this issue. The only mandate it gives is to suspend transactions for 72 hours. This is an internationally comparable mandate. On this basis, no action against the country has been brought in Slovenia. If I go to look at later court measures, temporary insurance claims for the confiscation of property benefits have been given in a number of cases. I must say that in just one case so far, and the one that was mentioned yesterday is the only excusable matter in the area of money laundering so far, which is legally excusable, about 13,000 English pounds have been seized in that case. At the initiative of the Office in 1996 and 1997, when this case went up, the court placed the Ministry of Finance in storage, which means that the "cost benefit" of this seized zero. The Treasury managed the money, the interest ran into the budget, the money was returned with the capital; if the state is charged with interest, these interest already ran into the budget. The topic, which is very important and can become problematic, given that we have now in the process, I think six indictments pending trial. Most of these charges relate to the 1996 legislation, not to those already corrected in 1998, 1999. And, of course, in those cases, a lot of money has been seized, I can say, almost 20 million marks of money in different currencies. And since the court's decisions in those cases, it will be important how the state works in this area, including with regard to seizure and confiscation. The 1999 CAP legislation provides very clearly and in this regard is, I will say, in line with international standards. Even longer than it is possible to confiscate things even if the judgment is not legally binding, if the money proves to be dirty or that it originates from corruption crimes. That's the first thing I'd like to point out. And the other thing is that all this money was already on the initiative of the Office at the time of the temporary management of the Ministry of Finance. "Cost Benefits", once again, this seized money should not be affected by the state, even if there are free judgments in those cases. So that what is now governed by the government's regulation in particular, in each particular case - 16 such cases - in their interview with the investigating judges, we have achieved that they already acted as a good master and in relation to the money seized, I will say, they have also respected the Office's proposals. So much for that. Maybe I missed a little something. If necessary, we are still available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Two more speakers made themselves known, first Mr Pohorec, then Mr Podobnik. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. I didn't get a chance yesterday. I'm going to ask one question today, just for a little while. In this law, you additionally owe or owe notaries, lawyers, auditors and so on and also legal and natural persons who provide accounting services or tax advice and so on. In this area, of course, I don't speak, a lot of mess, but it doesn't belong to this law. However, following the borrowing of those who operate accounting and similar services to legal and natural persons, those who do so legally today will have to be in charge. What about those who do this illegally? At least 10% in the country, that is at least 10,000 businesses and private craftsmen have this way, which is not in accordance with our legislation, solved by most of the former inspectors and other tax officials, specialists, how to bring the country around, if I say so domestically. How will you assign them to do the same when they are already doing something in black today? I'd like to answer that if I can get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. Mr Stroligo fully answered some of the questions we asked yesterday afternoon. If I followed his answers correctly, I do not think he answered the question raised by Dr. Bernik, who is paying lawyers or whether there is also a commitment from the Convention, that the issue that is related to the possibility that lawyers, when defending people, should be paid out of money that is laundered. Some countries have this legal arrangement. And whether the existing directives do not resolve this issue and whether it would be time to write it down in this amendment of the law. This topic seems very important to me, and I do not think you have answered that question. I have a transcript of last night's debates ahead of me, and in particular I would like to point out that after Mr Strolig's performance we can find that the Slovenian model is ranked among the five best in the world. That's what they say. We're incredibly good. I would also stress explicitly that I can assess Mr Strolig's work, his commitment, including him and his teams in international institutions, in the Council of Europe and everywhere. That's to be commended. But I feel like we're all saying there's something wrong with the Emperor, whether he's dressed or naked. I understood you well when you mentioned what global statistics are and that they therefore condemned that there are very few convictions around the world and where this system is best regulated. However, from your performance it is clear that the matter is stopped where it is called subjective nature, that years and years await matters in the courts. So it's subjective nature. For those of you who should act on your professional and ethical posture. These are the right years and years of writing. Obviously, things are much more serious, as you have even proposed a concrete decision, you have asked, so the government has asked the department responsible for this to propose to the competent authorities, where it cannot order this, that if it is subjective reasons, the acid of a criminal nature, that even the courts, the prosecution will determine what the reason is for some file to stand for three years, or, as you said today, that eight years do not come to trial. Here, most likely, we are not a model among the five best in the world. So, I want to make this clear, and this is the law, and this is the topic that we're talking about. However, another question would have to be asked. Mr Stroligo, when he justified the reasons for the adoption of this law yesterday, came to the hall and concluded with the following sentence: "In this way, I think our financial system will be more transparent if this law is adopted with these innovations. He will probably also purify what I can today call the "gray zone of business", which is linked to money of unknown origin, especially money coming from neighbouring countries to Slovenia and originating in, say, tax evasion. That's not, I'll say, serious crime in terms of organized crime. Nevertheless, this is a crime which I do not think this Slovenia needs to do on an ongoing basis as it has done so far. Yes, the "premier," he said, we really don't need that kind of crime and to the extent that we have so far. Here, you are probably a little bit - and the formulation is awkward, but yet the question is: Do you have any information, therefore, how much of this money coming from neighbouring countries is from tax evasion? Is this about organized crime? Under which provisions of the law you have found that it is money from these sources, or under the applicable law - this is Article 38, etc.? And of course, unfortunately, when we went to see the law in force, we did not see any provisions in the amendment of the law that would solve this issue. Can you quote a provision of a law or a single indent that will deal with the issue of money of unknown origin coming from neighbouring countries to Slovenia and comes from, say, tax evasion. What provision to amend the law will cover this issue? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Thank you very much, Mr. Director, for some clarifications. But I'd like to ask you some more information, and I'll ask you two questions. First, how many people do your office, to whom - are you on a level, your office at the level of Undersecretary, Secretary of State or something else, and who is your direct minister? That, and then two questions, three questions. For the first time, as far as I can see from the various reports, European Parliaments or representatives of European Parliaments are extremely interested in this issue. Here I have the report of the European Union's Parliament Conference on Money Laundering. There were two conferences, one in December and the other in February this year. The last one was in Paris. Here everyone has stood up, as the report shows, for European Parliaments to have closer control over the work of offices dealing with money laundering. We don't have that. They don't get any reports on the work of the office. As far as we get them by chance, they're very dry and they don't actually give us any insight into the real situation. And I think it would be necessary to make this right. You are not responsible for this, of course, but I am saying this because in other countries this is much more carefully regulated, so that it has a national assembly or that parliaments have a direct review of this work. Then I see a few things in some of the recommendations. This is about the proposal to create a central register of all bank accounts in each country. Of course, it's a big deal. Whether it's necessary or not, I can't say. But I'd like to have your comment. Secondly, I pointed out something yesterday, which I wasn't quite sure about, as far as the weight of the evidence, the records. Indeed, the countries present at this meeting have found that they have a problem. Of course, this is about human rights and so on, but here they recommend that this matter be settled in some way. For if the accused has no duty to participate in how much money he has been, where he came from, and so on, the state has a huge problem. And I'd like to know how it's been arranged with us and how you think it would be necessary to make this right. So, these are some questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u10	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the office! I have repeatedly come to my attention at the time of the adoption of the law and, therefore, I am now calling again at the time of the amendment of the Law, in particular in terms of issues and in terms of a critical view of the effectiveness of detection and, of course, also the sanctioning of such offences, which I think are one of the contemporary types of crime and crime not only in Slovenia but also everywhere in Europe and around the world. That's why I'm worried about finding that we're good, that we're super organized, that we don't have any problems, that we're modern. On the other hand, it is more than obvious that we are very ineffective. As of yesterday, Comrade Podobnik has highlighted statistics that are of concern to me. I asked myself a question, I don't know which, second or third reading of the basic text law, how many criminal charges or how many suspected criminal services have been convicted. That's when I got the "nothing" answer. And statistics show that this answer is still nothing. Although I agree that the responsibility for this is not the same, but that, to a large extent, the burden of the Slovenian judiciary or those branches of authority, which, of course, based on these proposals, the complaints, in the final stage, is also a judgment. Nevertheless, I think that the Office, as an expert body in the field of these very complicated crimes or these anomalies in Slovenia and, of course, also in European and global society, should only say, stress, point out and propose measures to improve the effectiveness of this service and, of course, measures to address these epilogues before the end. I think it's a segment of the delinquency that's developing and it's going to develop in the future. And it would be very difficult for me to agree that everything in this area has been done. I think it's necessary here, if not followed, maybe sometimes to outrun those who deal with or create these delinquents. Therefore, I do not think it would be necessary to adopt a decision on this amendment of the law to propose that the National Assembly propose to the Anti-Money Laundering Office, within three months of the adoption of this amendment, that it send to the National Assembly a proposal of measures which would make sense to take account of them in order to resolve this law more effectively and more effectively and to carry out all proceedings initiated by the Office. I think that the National Assembly, that the government can also do more in this area, that it is too small and I believe that we can make the system of control and the system of action more effective by means of joint efforts, such as the executive branch of government, the legislative branch of government and the judiciary. I do not want to repeat the story of the transition and of course the anomalies owned when the meeting happened that we were not or that the state authorities were not able to respond in a timely manner to all the aspects of the ownership transition. And, of course, the story went and went on, closed or closed. Of course, there was no epilogue of all possible suspected abuses, and there is no epilogue today. I would not like this story to be repeated in the area of money laundering, so I believe that more efforts should be made to make both the functioning of the Office and, of course, the efficiency of the implementation and, somehow, the implementation of what the Office proposes or, of course, to the other State authorities and, of course, to the other authorities of the judiciary. In short, I propose this additional decision, which we will also make in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Visac. I very much ask that this proposal for an additional decision be made in writing and, of course, all the debate that has taken place yesterday and today is, in fact, part of the debate on this decision. Mr Stroligo, in the light of the questions raised by fellow Members, I ask you very much to try to follow in the answers, however, the work that we are dealing with today is a proposal for amendments to the law, and to clarify in this direction and not to go into the breadth that is not on the agenda today. Mr. Stroligo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u12	Thank you very much. I have already mentioned that, of course, the debate has provoked, not the proposer, to a large extent. See, the first question was raised in relation to accounting services and those who carry out this transaction illegally or unregistered. It is clear that the law on the prevention of money laundering introduced accounting services among the debtors last year. So we do not introduce them into new ones with these amendments, we introduce them into new lawyers and notaries, and we unify them together with tax advisers, accountants, auditors who have been committed since last year, on tasks and on certain obligations. The grey zones of those who are not registered are not covered by this law and cannot be covered by it. Why not? Look, the system is like this. With the help of financial institutions registered on a market, it hunts those who try to track money in these financial institutions. Those who do not even operate at this minimum and are not registered, which means they are in breach of the rules, it is clear that you cannot get them on the side of the implementation of the law on the prevention of money laundering Of course, whoever is responsible for the detection of such infringements - this is a tax issue, it is a market inspection issue. Of course, from this point of view, it is necessary to solve this problem, not from the point of view of the law on money laundering prevention, but also from those we do not even know who they are. Therefore, the primary market must first regulate their area, and only then can they become obliged to implement the law. Secondly, the question about who pays lawyers - indeed, yesterday I forgot to give you an answer to this question or whether they could be paid from dirty money. See, in Slovenia there is a regulation regulating this issue, a law on criminal procedure, a pardon, a criminal code, and I apologize for saying that no one can maintain the property benefit that is derived from the crime. It concerns Article 95 of the Criminal Code and is then regulated in Articles 96 to 98 as to how this asset benefit is to be deducted. This article does not refer to whether this material advantage is with a lawyer or with someone else or with a third party, which means that normally, the law applies to everyone. So it also applies if a lawyer is paid with dirty money. If it is suspected that this has happened, there are, of course, all the mechanisms for this money to be seized as a payment to a lawyer. Of course, practice in Slovenia and in the world is very different in this regard. There are a number of countries that deal with this issue in particular. Not everything goes this way to say that this money has to be seized because they say, and then lawyers would never be paid. So, in fact, the dilemma, as I say, is resolved at the legal level in Slovenia, but in practice I think not because it has not yet been exposed, at least not that I know. The second point, or the next question, that was raised, about the model. Once again, the introductory explanations of the law are limited to this law. And when we talk about the model, we're talking about the prevention model and the early detection phase, not the whole money laundering project. In this part, this assessment has been made, and once again I say, the applicant stands behind it with all arguments. But we've already talked about what's not in the project, and I don't think he'd repeat that it doesn't make sense to repeat. Of course, the whole project has critical points. Some of these laws are further regulated so that something not to surprise us may happen. On the other hand, it should also be stressed that this model is preventive and repressive. He's not just repressive. Measuring the effectiveness of the money laundering project only by the number of convicted persons and the number of seized persons is wrong. This is a good information that shows the efficiency of the system, but it is far from being the only one. How do we measure, say, prevention? Unfortunately, in this area, I can say there are a bunch of books written, but the solution is very little. How to measure that you are also, for example, in the case of the exoneration judgment issued in Gorica, that we were able to dismantle a criminal association that will never again exist in Slovenia. Is it possible to measure this as a system effect or not? I'm just giving you one example that shows that this matter is a long way from being very simple. Of course, abroad they have now begun, in particular Britain, to set up some so-called "performance indicators", saying performance indicators, both offices and the entire project and they interfere in the whole sphere of work. What we are trying to do is, of course, point out the critical points of this project across the system when we report to the government. Last but not least, in this House, you have addressed amendments to the Penal Code and the CAP, amended Article 252, tightened the penalties and made it different. It wasn't all by accident. All of this was done because we found that the case law that began to be formulated and interpreted for the first time under the 1996 law - I am talking about the criminal code and the article on money laundering - wrongly, in the wrong direction, including tax evasion. The question raised by Article 252 of the Penal Code, which has been in force since 1980, makes it very clear that all offences, including offences of tax evasion, are preliminary acts of money laundering. However, the first law of 1995 on tax evasion was not so clear or accepted differing views. And the courts have made different decisions about this. At the time when Slovenia ratified the Council of Europe Convention 141 on Money Laundering, Seizure and Seizure, not to speak further, it committed itself to implementing the so-called "all crime" model. This has been established and is valid. It also applies to the area of prevention. In this area, financial organisations are not obliged to identify whether some money originates from this crime or from another or third party. In this way we have made it easier for them, even with this model that we have, that no matter what kind of crime dirty money comes from, they must report it as suspicious. And of course, here this system is upgraded further, so there are no such marital dilemmas. However, I mentioned, of course, that in practice it is sometimes difficult to prove tax evasion. I could list specific cases for you. If you do not have a partner abroad who would be adequately qualified to prove the tax evasion that has been committed abroad, not in Slovenia, but that the foreigners in Slovenia are doing this money and the repurchase operation, of course you have a problem. I can mention, say, a typical problem with Russia. Russia has only recently established an office. The Russians and I have information about where the money comes from, what's called capital flight, or their tax evasions. Of course, such data could not be obtained. It was clear that it was money laundering that crimes had been committed, but it was not clear that successful and specific criminal procedures could lead to this. In these cases, we have acted preventively, even so that some of these persons may not have been granted a work visa, so we have also acted in such a way that those for whom we have had very much, but not enough to have a successful criminal procedure to get rid of them from Slovenia, in cooperation with other services, of course. It's also a prevention. How to measure this is again, as I said, very difficult because you won't see it in statistics. Then there's a question about who the office is answering. This debate, once again, we have had last year, and unfortunately we do not have a magnetogram. In particular, in the Ministry of Finance, at least since this office exists, I have always been directly responsible to the Minister. I was not under the authority of any Secretary of State, I am talking about the content of the work. Of course, this does not mean that services within the Ministry of Finance would not be coordinated; on the contrary, coordination with the tax service, customs service, foreign exchange inspection, budgetary inspection at operational level takes place and is generally there. Of course, as far as my vacations are concerned or my business trips are concerned, the Secretary of State, at the discretion of the Minister, is signing them, so I am not my own gentleman, if I may say so. This reporting is carried out in accordance with the law, as I have already said, and responsibility is imposed, irrespective of the fact that I have replaced three ministers at this time. This system has always been the same, and this is how it is now, so nothing has changed since Minister Rob became my chairman. You have mentioned the European Parliaments and their interest in this issue. Indeed, the topic of money laundering is also to prevent the financing of terrorism theme 1A with the line again. Therefore, the knowledge we have on this issue has become more valuable and, if you want, more politically relevant. Unfortunately, some regulations do not follow. The dilemmas that you have raised with regard to reversed burdens of proof are the dilemmas of international standards. This is not an international standard. Unfortunately, this week, the Council of Europe has failed to reach an agreement at the professional level to go this way. What Slovenia can now do to move this to "salt" - probably very difficult what. As far as responsibility and reporting are concerned. Nor does one office in the world report to the National Assembly or Parliament. One office in the world doesn't have that status either. As a rule, this is, as I stress - already that the Office reports to the government, as is the case in Slovenia, is already an exception if we compare this at the entire level. Reporting to the public, informing the public, of course. In Slovenia we also wrote it in the law. You know this goes on a regular basis. It is data that is not confidential in nature, and we can give this information, we also publish it on the Internet, we have a press conference at least once a year with regard to data in the fields of work. What the media says about this is hard to talk about. I can say that such a system as is now in force, I think it holds water comparatively and I can also say that within Slovenia, I think this model is good. Once again, reporting to Parliament only on the issue of the work of the Office, I think it would be a mistake. I also think that the proposed decision that the Office should prepare this can impose obligations on the government. The office is an organ in the composition of one ministry, not directly under the government. And of course, the money laundering project, what you already know, doesn't just involve the work of the office. It covers the work of financial institutions and other natural debtors of the office, the police, the state prosecutor's office, the courts, if you will, at least to this extent. The reporting or commitment to the preparation of some measures concerning the whole project should cover all these bodies. Some of them are also independent and independent, and even with such a desire either to the office or to the government, it is not possible to interfere with their decisions. What could have been done, I said yesterday. I have read to you two government conclusions which were proposed and adopted in government in the work reports on a proposal from the Office and the Ministry of Finance. And also the actions of these authorities, if we are now talking about the year 2000, the decision has been put in place. Yesterday there was no time to say that the court, including judicial statistics on the basis of the government's decision and on these warnings, had moved for the better. We have three judgments in Slovenia. One is excusable, two are convicted, not yet authorized. There are six more trials pending. I hope that some of these will begin in a year to show you what effectiveness and effectiveness of this system is measured by convictions or pardons. The good news is that only 10% of the cases initiated have been stopped so far. So 90% of the cases that were triggered after money laundering - although not numerous - are still in different stages of the process. This suggests that the things actually initiated were not so badly initiated, with poor data. Then it's just the central register of all the bank accounts. It's a very wobbly project. Some countries are also going there. Italy went into it, I mean this project, three years ago. 14 days old information is that it's not operational yet, the question is when it will be. The idea, however, is that in one place one state authority, usually the central bank, has information about who owns the X 500 account and so on. Therefore, it is not necessary to impose any burden on the ownership of an account whenever it comes to the assessment of crime or the criminal origin of money, but for the purposes of the courts and other competent authorities. In Slovenia, of course, we did not go into this project, at least organizedly, for the purpose of money laundering. Why not? The powers vested in the Office allow it to obtain in real time all information on all accounts and transactions, both foreigners and Slovenians, residents, non-residents in banks, so that this speed required to respond to potential dirty money in the account is already in place. Compared to why the Italians went to this. Because their office has the power to obtain information from banks, but the law does not specify the time limit within which banks must give them that information. Which means it takes six months. In Slovenia, this deadline is limited to 15 days at the latest. So that the reasons for going to Slovenia for this need, of course, should be analysed the whole system and also compared to how much this would cost the country, not to mention that the collection of some data is also affecting the law on the protection of personal rights and data, so that it should be very careful there. About the weight of proof. I think there's been a lot of talk about this. The problem of proving money laundering is this: You have a crime committed abroad and money laundering in your country. Connecting this dirty money to a specific crime abroad that can be done in Panama, South America or Sicily is not easy. And this is not just about Slovenia, this is an international problem. If you have legislation that allows you to demonstrate as easily as possible, you have already taken the first step in this direction. And what I am saying in Slovenia has already been done. Criminal legislation in this area is good. "All crime" model allows the punishment of perpetrators out of negligence, allows organised crime to be punished with 10 years of imprisonment, thus allowing the perpetrator of a previous crime to be treated for money laundering, which is also, I will say, an option, a good option that we have in law. By making this problem of proof as easy as possible, it has already been done. The last step missing is, of course, the one I mentioned, the reverse burden of proof, proof based on some general parameters. And this is where we really reach out to human rights. You know that it is a constitutional principle that no one is to blame until proven guilty, and this principle, of course, if this debate is to be held at the time of consideration of the criminal code or the law on criminal proceedings, to interfere with the field of evidentiary burdens, and this debate is to be held at that time. I think I've said everything I had to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u13	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the general debate and move on to a second reading. This is for consideration and decision on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 18.6.2002. I shall put Article 5 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. The proposer shall be the committee, with the remark that the amendment under 1 is related to the amendment to Article 7. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has been adopted. We decide on the amendment under 2. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. For the second time, we are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 5. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. Even now, the first vote has not been successful. Please have some attention, we've had enough in the hall, but we all have to be ready to press one of the keys. Second, we decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 7 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article, which is substantively linked to the amendment already adopted to Article 5 under order number 1. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 16 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 28 and the amendment to this Article. The amendment is proposed by the Committee, the amendment is linked to the amendment to Article 30. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 39 votes against none. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are also deciding on the amendment of the Committee to Article 30 as well as its deletion. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We have discussed the amendments tabled and are moving on to the discussion on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to the decision on the remaining articles. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 45 votes against none. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the amendments to Articles 5, 7, 16, 28 and 30 were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants to discuss the bill in its entirety. [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask the representative of the secretariat whether there may be a breach of mutual compliance with the provisions of the law. [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. With regard to this law, the Socialist Party of Slovenia's parliamentary group tabled a proposal for a decision with the following content: "The National Assembly proposes to the Office of the Republic of Slovenia to prevent money laundering to submit to the National Assembly within three months of the entry into force of this Act measures to be taken into account in the preparation of legislation to implement more effectively the law on the prevention of money laundering and the faster and more effective implementation of the procedures initiated by the Office." I am opening a debate on the proposal for a decision. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u14	Thank you very much. I accept the comments made on this additional decision by the representative of the Office, but I believe that this is the following. It is only the Office that has a sufficiently professional and comprehensive view of the functioning of the Office and of possible improvements in terms of the efficiency of the work of the Office. It is certainly an area not solely covered by this Office and concerns even a range of other institutions, including other ministries and other bodies in the composition. That's completely understandable. However, I believe that it is only on the basis of the analysis and possible measures that have been submitted that we can increase the quality or effectiveness of this service and possibly some services associated with this service that other branches of government are not finally possible. I believe that the proposed decision can be a step towards effectiveness. I am aware of the limitations of the power of the office involved in this structure of government to which it belongs. This is absolutely true, but I also know other bodies in the composition, such as inspectorates, who, on the occasion of their annual reports, are constantly and continuously proposing measures to improve the situation in this area. These measures generally also fly to other institutions, other ministries. Not just the ministries, including the insurance system. I believe that such a list or such a proposal for measures may be more or less welcome for us to be able to draw attention to this when any other law is being considered, to this end we are paying attention and to what proposal we are implementing. I don't see anything wrong with that. But I think we're going to have to grow this administrative stiffness once, so that we may have to be a little more open. Perhaps we Members can also encourage such proposals to launch these demands of the involvement of various services in this scheme of our administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr. Stroligo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I did not say that the proposal is bad, but I oppose the proposal on behalf of the proposers for the following reasons. First of all, it would be very embarrassing for the Bureau to suggest what the Bureau should do to make it better. That's the first thing. Secondly, I think that the Office is part of the executive branch and, of course, Parliament should communicate with the government, not with the office, with such conclusions. Third, the reason why. The Office has already worked on such proposals to improve the system. This is a regular part of his work in relation to the government. And even the government, I must say, has never before happened that any of the proposals of the offices would not have been accepted and not followed. The reasons why the government is now particularly committed, or, if you want, an office such as the proposal of your decision to do something in three months to improve, I don't think it's necessary. These measures, which are necessary to improve the system, are part of the treatment. Let me just mention one more reason that within three months what you're proposing will happen anyway. Next week, I repeat, the report of the Council of Europe will be discussed at the plenary session. The delegation I run is an interdepartmental delegation. The draft report, part of which I have already explained, which is critical to individual points, will be dealt with immediately after the adoption of the Council, Europe, after the holidays, by the government. This means that there will be an opportunity for these systemic matters, which, if I understand correctly, in your proposal you are also referring to the need to resolve them, it will be possible to do so. I am therefore convinced that, when the report is being considered by the government and the draft of the relevant decisions is being drawn up to remedy these errors where necessary, Parliament will also be able to inform it if necessary. One more thing to say is that what is involved in this law and the treatment of this law and what is critically stated in this report is already included in the bill. I mentioned the introductions, the issue of identifying the actual owners of companies, the issue of identifying the books on the contributor, and I could list some details. Someone earlier said that it was necessary to be a while ago, I think with this law you passed today, we are partly on this path already, at least as far as prevention is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u18	I accept the suggestion and therefore in just one part we are modifying the decision to propose to the government, yes and so on. [[...]] This is said to be replaced by the word "Government of RS". That basically takes into account what it is. I believe this will be done. At the same time, it would be only good that this has also been delivered to the national assembly in the form of such a formulated decision, so I am modifying this part of the additional decision, which, of course, you will also get in writing. However, I think we can vote no matter what, because the matter is perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Stroligo, did you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u20	Once again, I stress that your conclusion, even in the rest of the work, is somehow illogical. We talked a lot about what doesn't work in this system. You yourself have given some warnings about the efficiency of the office's work, both good and bad. Now, if I understand correctly, you are proposing to the government because I do not have a written decision before me to ensure that the work of the Office is carried out more effectively. The government is doing this regularly, as I stress when the annual report of the Office is being considered, this part, which concerns only the work of the Office, has already been ensured. I mentioned last year and this year that the whole issue is interfering with an area that goes beyond the authority of the government. If the National Assembly wants to commit someone to analyse and propose conclusions to remedy this, of course, I think that it will have to invite other institutions to all work, especially those that are independent here, if I am talking about the court now, the judiciary, given that part of this law is also the supervisory institutions, which are the primary supervisors, I am talking about the central bank, the insurance agency, the securities market agency, which are outside the government, which are independent institutions. Of course, they should also be tied up. Commitment only to the government in this sense to prepare measures to improve the system would, of course, be somewhat disabled. However, I would like to point out earlier that the Government will address the overall evaluation of the project no later than September, given the assessment by foreign eminent experts that I do not see the reasons for such a decision on behalf of the proposer and will, of course, also invite and take note of these assessments from other independent bodies which are outside the functioning of the executive branch. These are the reasons why I object. However, I am not against the very content of doing such an analysis well and that it is necessary and that it is also right for Parliament to get to know it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Visjak, then Mr. Kelemina. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you. I just need to react. If you have read well or listened to the decision, we do not speak or mention it in the decision of the office. We refer only to more effective implementation of the law on the prevention of money laundering and, of course, to more efficient enforcement of the procedures initiated. It's actually a complex issue. That's what we're charging the government and not the Bureau. For this reason, we believe that this is the smallest step towards progress in the implementation of this brilliant legislation, as we have commented several times today. The issue is not focused solely on the office, it is focused on the whole system and the government can also propose measures in this analysis in other branches of government if it considers that this would be better for effective enforcement or effective implementation of the law on money laundering prevention. So what the Director's main comments are, in my opinion, is correct and does not isolate anyone and are widely addressed and, above all, want systemic solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u24	Thank you so much for saying that. Dearly beloved, see, we have in the debate, irrespective of the proposed amendments to the law, identified certain systemic weaknesses, I do not know, perhaps some legal void, inconsistencies in the legislation, shortcomings in the legislation and so on. I firmly believe that the National Assembly has an interest, as a whole, I think that all of these conclusions, which we have made by various discussers, we want to contribute in some way to making some improvements. And if we want to influence this, the National Assembly must also be some kind of facilitator of the initiative for improvement. This is nothing more than that the National Assembly is working to improve all these shortcomings or the weaknesses of the system that we have seen in the debate. It's absolutely nothing else. That is why I think that this initiative should be taken by the National Assembly and commissioned by this executive branch of government to try to find some solutions for a more effective resolution of the law itself and then to start proceedings on individual matters. I firmly believe that only leave the whole initiative to the Office and the Government and certain authorities to implement and implement certain things independently and report to the National Assembly and to the international institutions that the situation is such and such and is not different, but not enough to do or have no initiative in this, I do not think it is appropriate. That is why I would also fully support this decision, so that we can then see in the next period when we adopt such legislation again or such a report on the work of the Office, so that we can analyse how much of the initiatives taken by the National Assembly to improve the situation in this area have been taken into account. That's all. If that's too much, I don't know, but I'm pretty sure a decision like this can't hurt, it can only benefit the whole system. That was an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Since it is an area where everyone would like our assessment of effectiveness to be perfectly uniform, it is right to say why I will not support this proposal for conclusions. Give it a logical read and you will see that it cannot be supported. This proposal for conclusions requires that [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The national assembly, which has taken measures by the Government, has taken measures that should be taken into account in the drafting of legislation. [[...]] It's internally illogical. Because if so, then let me draw up legislation. It will not communicate to you the measures that it will take into account in the drafting of the legislation, this part. Well, then, watch out for any legislation. They're legislating for a more effective implementation of the law. Thus, a new law should be adopted in order to implement the law that we have just adopted. That really doesn't work. And I believe the purpose is good. But such a conclusion may be considered whether such a conclusion reaches a goal. [[...]] Such a decision cannot achieve any objective. I'd ask you to think about it, but you're designing a different one, because you can't really support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u28	I propose for fifteen minutes, that is to say, allow us to prepare the text in accordance with these comments and we can move on to another, and we will return as soon as we have submitted it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We can proceed with the 12th item of the agenda. I'm breaking the 14th item of the agenda. Following the conclusion of the 12th, we will consider the proposal for an additional decision proposed by the Socialist Party's Group on the 14th item of the agenda. I'm breaking up. the agenda item and we are moving on to the 12th item of the agenda. Once we have done this, we will also hold a debate and a vote on the proposal for an additional decision. We're moving on to 12. Period of the day - that's the third defensively proposed law on public gatherings. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the government want a word? Dr. Bojan Bulgarian, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members. You have before you a proposal for a law on public meetings, prepared for third reading and adoption in the National Assembly. This law will re-order one of the fundamental human rights, the right to moderate assembly. This right is one of the most important constitutional rights and is also the basis for other equally important constitutional rights, such as freedom of speech, freedom of thought, religious definitions and other ideas and views. The new law will replace the old law on public meetings and public events in 1973, which, by the fact that the law is old and adopted in different times, in another regime, cannot adequately regulate the new emerging forms of the exercise of this constitutional right. This law brings a whole bunch of new solutions. The scope of public gatherings governs much more modern, based on the principle that the right is given after a halt and that the law determines only the way, the procedure for its enforcement or enforcement. The procedures for the exercise of justice shall be as simplified as possible. Better legal protection of the rights themselves is also ensured. The legal regulation of certain forms of public gatherings and the obligation to declare certain events which are now required to be notified or notified by the existing arrangements are waived. The law also imposes a very important principle of modern constitutional arrangements, a liberal principle that gathering is permissible if it is not prohibited or by law is not permissible and the organiser commits a violation in the absence of legal obligations. In the proposal for a law, the Government included all amendments adopted in second reading, namely Articles 4, 7, 10, 13, 14, 18, 20, 22, 30, 33, 38 and 45. At the same time, the Government shall submit amendments to Articles 7, 18, 41 and 42. Articles 41 and 42 - these are purely editorial amendments, leaving two substantive amendments to Articles 7 and 18. To Article 7, we are proposing an amendment, which is adopted in the second debate, extending the power to declare public assembly to a police office, which is not an organisational unit of the police, but is only an occasional form of police work, and in the implementation of the law - such a government position - would cause a lot of problems. For these police offices operate only one to a maximum of two or three days a week and ensure the presence of an official only during official hours, which are normally not longer than four hours a day. They are also not technically equipped, which will make it impossible for the public to access the reported collection data up-to-date. The benefits gained by the organisers are by no means outweighed by the problems caused by such an arrangement, since applications should be submitted no later than a few days before the deadlines provided for in the law, which are substantially reduced, but precisely because of the simplification of the procedure, by day or three, in order to allow for rapid, direct acceptance and resolution of applications for meetings or meetings. In the case of applications submitted by post, however, there would be situations where a timely application to the police office could arrive too late to be an organiser in a misdemeanour without even knowing it. In our view, it is also illegal to have legal powers, since this is where the legal matter goes, to transfer to the level of the police office, which is defined only as a method of working with the internal organisational acts of the Ministry, not in law. We suggest that the jurisdiction of the police office in law be waived. And briefly on the amendment to Article 18. However, the amendment of Article 18 as proposed by the Government with the amendment ensures that the authorisation granted can also be revoked in cases where, after the authorisation has been granted, there are reasons why the collection could not be authorised and are defined in Article 6, paragraph 1, of the proposal. I therefore believe that we have also satisfied the legitimate comments made by Members in the second reading, who have pointed out the excessive laxity of the previous Article 18. It will now be explicitly written that this meeting can only be cancelled when the reasons set out in Article 6(1) arise, but which are very precisely defined. These are typical reasons why it is normal for a public event to be subsequently dissolved. For example, the purpose of the events is to commit crimes or to call for the commission of crimes or for the purpose of causing violence, public order or public traffic interference. These are the two substantive amendments proposed by the government. Dear Members and Members! I believe that the right to peaceful assembly, public assemblies, will be comparablely regulated by the new law, so I propose that you, honourable Members and Members, along with the proposed amendments be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to the rapporteur of the Committee, the Vice-President, Mr Franc Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u32	The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. It was pointed out in the opening that the draft text for the third reading had been prepared by means of a decision of the National Assembly adopted at its 12th meeting, held on 23.1.2002. In preparing the draft law, all amendments adopted in the second reading were introduced into the legal text and certain editorial corrections required by the correct sentence building were carried out. For such a prepared text, the Secretariat has only comments on Articles 14 and 22 of the bill, which would make it possible to supplement or clarify them. With regard to the first comment, the term 'competent authority' would indicate, in the interests of clarity, the replacement by a more precise definition of the body which issues such an authorisation for the organisation of a meeting or an event. The Committee did not support the amendment of the Government to Article 7. At the conclusion of the debate, the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia that the draft law on public meetings in third reading be adopted together with amendments supported or proposed by the Committee."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to Members and Members on the proposal of the law in its entirety. Since no one wants to discuss, we are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19.6.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! First, given that we are also equipped with modern information technology, I would criticise that the review of the amendments is not yet in the Lotus Notes phase, but we already have it. In two laws this happened, and I think that if it was already printed so that we could also monitor it there; some of us use it, but fine. There has already been a broad debate on the amendment of the government. All I would say is that the arguments cited by the Government in the amendment's explanation can be technical if we take into account what they have written. But I don't understand. Administrative authorities have their official hours, and you can't intervene at any time in the municipality or administrative unit. Here it refers to the need for even a few more human resources reinforcements. If the police office has a working time on Tuesdays and Thursdays from two to four, people will be in the city - and believe them to know - then come to the police office and give up this role. If this office is closed, they won't put it there and they'll put it where it's open. But if they post it, at least that's how the police ensure that they cover the police office area constantly, daily with police patrols, with the head of police environments. And this officer, I assume he'll come by this office and look at the mail that's important to their work. I do not support this in view of the advice we have also had within the LDS Group of Members. Most of us here feel that we do not support this amendment by the government, because it is controversial about something that does not cause such additional costs as the government states. The arguments don't hold.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 7. Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful. Let's vote on the amendment of the government next time. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. The vote was 18 to 22. [[For the vote was 18]] [[Against 22.]] I take it that the amendment of the government has not been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 14. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 36 votes against 1. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the government to Article 18. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 46 of us present. It's 37 votes to 1. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 22. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! The first vote on the amendment was not successful, so let us vote on the amendment a second time. Let's vote! The second vote was not successful either. At 11.51 we will vote on the amendment to Article 22 for the third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u36	Your Honor! All those of you who are nearby, please come to the hall, because this is the third time we will be deciding on the amendment to Article 22. In the third vote on the Committee's amendment to Article 22, we will also determine the presence in the Chamber. This is the third time we have voted on the Committee's amendment to Article 22. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 38 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 41 and the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the last amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 42. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I ask the secretariat for legislation whether the adopted amendments violate each other's conformity with the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full vote on the law. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 39 votes against 6. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation. Thank you very much also to the representatives of the secretariat. And we're going to break 14. It's a day's work. The draft decision was corrected by the Socialist Party's Group of Ambassadors. You've got him on the bench. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Although I apologize for the fact that in the previous decision, I practically had this text, which I now have before me, and I do not know how the phrase "in the drafting of legislation" snuck up. In short, an additional decision is proposed by text that the National Assembly should propose to the Government, within three months of the entry into force of the law, a proposal for measures to be taken to implement the law on the prevention of money laundering more effectively and to implement the procedures already initiated by the Office for the Prevention of Money Laundering more quickly and efficiently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? A representative of the office, perhaps? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on a revised proposal for a decision by the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. 20 votes to 26. [[20 votes in favour (against 26.]] I take it that the decision has not been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for preventing money laundering very much for their cooperation. Representatives of the secretariat also thank you very much. And we're moving on to 15. PERIOD OF THE DAY - REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF A LEGISLATION ON THE EUROPEAN WORLDS OF WORKERS, The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I say hello to both of you. Does the representative of the government want a word? Secretary of State, Mrs. Natasa Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The proposal for a law on European Councils of Workers is part of the laws to be adopted in the process of taking over the acquis of the European Union. The aim pursued by the law is in particular to transpose the requirements of Directive 94/45 on the establishment of European Works Councils or to regulate the procedure for informing and consulting workers in companies or joint ventures at Community level. In our country, the field of information and consultation is governed by the law on the participation of workers in management, but that law does not take into account the supranational structure of an undertaking that makes decisions affecting the situation of employees. Given that the requirements of the Directive relate to undertakings or groups of undertakings with a certain number of employees operating in at least two Member States, this is an area that needs to be regulated by a specific law. The proposed law will thus regulate and improve the right of workers to information and consultation in larger companies and in related companies operating in the European Union area, at least in the Member States where at least 1,000 workers are employed, of which at least 150 workers in at least two Member States. To this end, the proposed law provides for two ways to establish an agreement on the establishment of a European Council of Workers composed of representatives of workers, or the regulation of a different information procedure, to consult workers in companies in the European Union area operating in at least two Member States. However, if such an agreement cannot be reached, under the conditions laid down in the directive, the European Council of Workers shall set up "exleges", that is, in accordance with the direct provisions of the law summarizing the requirements of the Annex to the Directive. Let me draw attention to the fact that the proposal for this law has been addressed by the Economic and Social Council, that the proposal for a law is coordinated between the social partners and the fact that several amendments have been proposed by the home labour body, which are editorial in nature, to the law. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that you support the amendments together with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee. Chairman of the committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u41	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members, distinguished representatives of the government. The draft law was discussed at the 21st regular session of the Committee on Labour, Health, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. This should be done in particular in the opinion sent to the members of the Committee by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, given that the representative of the proposer, Mrs State Secretary Belopavlovič, as we have today, has also presented the draft law to the members of the Committee. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, in its opinion, notes that the draft law is prepared and submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. With regard to the incorporation of the law and the legislative proposal into our legal system, the secretariat points out that that bill uses certain terms which are already defined in our legal system, but their content is otherwise defined. This raises the question of the definition of economic and related companies as two basic concepts of the proposed law, which are already duly defined in the Company Act, where the status issues of companies are also identified and identified. The Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs also made specific comments on a number of articles and also comments on IV below. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2020. In the debate both the members of the Committee and the representative of the proposer, a number of arguments based on the opinion of the secretariat were clarified, but some specific comments with the amendments had to be corrected. Given that the draft law is consistent with the social partners, there have also been no more specific comments or discussions between members and members of the Committee. On the basis of the substantive or more specific comments of the secretariat, the Committee has drafted amendments to Article 16, Article 1, Article 3, Article 18, of the amendment to Title III. Sub-chapters, Amendments to Articles 29 and 34. The Committee also adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal be considered and adopted in conjunction with the Committee's amendments, in accordance with a rapid procedure. You should also be informed of the following. We have somehow overlooked Article 21 of the draft law on the Committee, in which a similar correction or amendment to Article 10 would have to be made in view of the fact that it preserves the law. I therefore tabled an amendment to Article 21 on my behalf yesterday, and I ask you to support it. This will make the law consistent. As I have said, Article 21 or the amendment to Article 21 resolves exactly the same and specific comment made by the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters as reflected in Article 10. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u43	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government! The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the adoption of the Law on European Councils of Workers. However, we do have some comments that would be taken into account in all this legal matter. The aim of the law is to transpose the requirements of the Directive establishing the European Works Councils and to regulate the procedures for informing and consulting workers in companies into our legal system. For the time being, these provisions will not apply and shall enter into force on the day of full membership of the European Union. Look, we've been talking about the holy workers for a long time and we've been discussing the labour relationship law. At that time, we stressed the following: everything relating to the regulation of working relationships would be good for it to be regulated by the Labour Relations Act. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u44	Your Honor! Please provide a speaker [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u45	I find that they have their own debate upstairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u46	Please calm your debates. We owe it to all the speakers in the Chamber to ensure the needed peace. Thank you very much. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u47	Thank you very much for this intervention. I'll be brief. I see you're impatient and you have your own debates. Thus, this legal substance now appears in three laws, the Labour Relations Act, the Workers' Co-ordination Act and the Act that we are adopting today. We do not object to it because co-decision, information and consultation with workers certainly contributes to greater participation of workers, greater co-responsibility of workers and thus better results in companies, and thus competitiveness. In fact, we accept these provisions for some kind of supply; to close the chapter, we also need to adopt this law, but no special speed. So once again, I stress that we will not oppose this law. Once again, we stress that this method of acceptance will make it difficult to understand legal matter, particularly on the other hand the contractual partners at work, i.e. workers who will become more familiar and more difficult to get to know and to exercise their interests more strongly, i.e. employers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinion of the Group of Members. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received written submissions to the debate and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much. We certainly do, and I personally support this law. But I'm warning you about something. The more we deal with individual, more specific laws, in the context of adapting our legal order to the acquis of the European Union, the more we find that the literal translations of individual directives, by definition of fugitive concepts of our acquis, do not somehow coincide. That is why I think that, sooner or later, it will be necessary to adopt some interpretation of certain direct literal translations from the language of the dominant European countries into our language, including in the title of the legal definitions of a particular concept. This has proved to be relatively clear in this law, and therefore it has also been quite a type of dilemma to which the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs has pointed. We have solved them according to the best of understanding. Otherwise, I support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am concluding a general debate. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Let us vote on the proposal for a decision. There are 46 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19.6.2002. I shall put Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 41 votes against none. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are under Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 40 votes against no one. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the Committee's 10th Article and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. The first vote on the amendment has not been successful. There are enough of us in the Chamber, please have some more attention. Second time we vote on the amendment. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. At 12.22 we will vote for the Committee's amendment at 10 a.m. for the third time. There were 55 of us in the hall. Thank you very much. We'll be on in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u51	Your Honor! For the third time, we will vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 10. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are at Article 16 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 46 votes against one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are under Article 18 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Mr Brenčič has tabled an amendment to Article 21 [[this amendment is not under review, it is on the bench]] . I am opening a debate on Article 21 and the amendment. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm concluding it. We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at the address of the third sub-chapter and the amendment of the Committee for Change of Title. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and the address has been changed. We are at the Committee's 29th Article and amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There were 52 votes in favour, 46 against none. (The vote was 46.)(Nobody.) I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are at Article 34 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We're moving on to the title debate. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the title. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table amendments to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] I ask the representative of the secretariat whether the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law may be violated? [[It's not.]] We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law in its entirety. Let's vote! There are 53 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much to the representatives of the government for their cooperation, and also to the representatives of the secretariat, thank you very much. And we're moving on to 18. PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT'S ON On the contrary, a bill on equal opportunities for women and men - Quick procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There's a representative among us. I welcome her very much. Does the representative of the government want a word? Ms Mira Olup Umek, Director of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for Equal Opportunities, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u52	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Members of the National Assembly, honourable Members, honourable Members. Allow me a few words about the meaning of the law on equal opportunities that you have before you, of course. Therefore, the adoption of the Equal Opportunities Act is provided for in the European Union's national programme for the adoption of the acquis. It will be regulated by law in the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia on equal opportunities between women and men in a European comparable way. We are therefore fully in line with the European Union's legal order, by means of Directive 76/207 or the Directive to be supplemented, and we are in line with Article 3 of the Amsterdam Treaty. In this regard, I should point out that in the past we have been repeatedly reminded by the European Community that we have not made significant progress in the area of equal opportunities between women and men in Slovenia. Therefore, it is essential that we adopt this law as soon as possible, and thus, after the adoption of the Labour Relations Act and also the Parental Protection and Family Benefits Act, we are fully aligned with the legal order of the European Union in the field of equal treatment between women and men. As it is said, we need the law in order to comply with the acquis of the European Union and, on the other hand, because of the experience of current life, which shows that we still face inequalities in practice in specific areas. The policy of equal opportunities extends to different areas. It can therefore only be achieved if this is one of the clearly defined priorities of government policy. In order to implement it, additional measures must be taken at the legal level and the gender perspective should be taken into account in all areas of social life. The Law on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men establishes a system framework for this way of action. In our legal system, we regulate matters that fall within different areas in the field of legislation. It therefore gives the law on equal opportunities for women and men as a legal basis for the roofing of the law and thus makes a commitment that certain actions and concrete measures to ensure equal opportunities will be systematically regulated in different laws, national programmes, periodic plans and other acts. We also introduce the integration of the principle of gender equality into all policies, the so-called 'gender main streaming', which is, as it is said, the adopted strategy of the European Union to achieve gender equality with the Amsterdam Treaty. Honorable National Assembly! On all these grounds, I propose, I ask for your support and, of course, for the adoption of a bill on equal opportunities between women and men. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u53	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Vice-President of the Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on equal opportunities for women and men submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration following a rapid procedure was addressed by the Internal Policy Committee at its 26th extraordinary meeting, on 18 and 19 June, which is not least reflected in the two reports, the report and the supplementary report, so allow me to short-circuit them. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, the opinion of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, the opinion of the Committee of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia on Social Activities, the proposals for amendments to the Union of Free Trade Unions of Slovenia and the proposal for amendments to the Government Office of the Republic of Slovenia for equal opportunities. In its explanation of the proposal, the applicant first justified the reasons for the rapid procedure. The Committee took note of the opinion of the secretariat, which, in view of its view of constitutional compliance, stressed that the proposal for a law interferes with a sensitive area at the constitutional level, particularly with regard to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and drew the Committee's attention in particular to the solutions provided for in Articles 8 and 9 of the draft law. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities also considered the proposal to be an interested labour force and, in view of its competence, adopted some amendments that improve the text of individual legal provisions and proposed that the mother's labour body support them. In the general debate, the Internal Policy Committee considered that the proposed law was necessary and necessary, as it is a bill of protection that lays common ground for the creation of equal opportunities between women and men, and provides a starting point or basis for further development and development of this issue. The first part of the Committee concluded before the interruption by adopting a decision on the need for the legislative text to be dealt with in the light of a rapid procedure. Following the consideration of the legislative proposal, the Committee supported the 12 amendments of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons and the amendment offered by the Office for Equal Opportunities and the Committee took over as its own. Therefore, at the end of this report, allow me to propose to you a decision: "The Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a bill on equal opportunities for women and men, together with amendments supported or proposed by the Committee." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Janez Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u56	First of all, a warm welcome to the representatives of the Office for Equal Opportunities, as well as to colleagues and fellow Members. The Equal Opportunities Act is in front of us. In the New Slovenia Group, we are working to actually equalize equal opportunities, men and women, both in employment, in politics and in other spheres of life. We are now receiving a law submitted by the government or the office that is supposed to bring improvements, including in accordance with the European Union's guidelines, after ensuring equal opportunities. We have some criticism of this law. This law remains at a declaratory level. Later, of course, we received some complementary amendments from the government that would solve this problem or this weakness, but not the most fortunate in our opinion. This law also lacks instruments to enforce equal opportunities to do so. The law itself then states that a resolution on the national programme will also be adopted. We are afraid that, at the expense of this relatively small enforceable law and empty law, we will also probably get some kind of piece of paper that will have little impact on actual implementation. The amendment then introduces a criminal provision for those who do not submit an action plan or work after the action plan adopted, but have not been agreed by the Office for Equal Opportunities. Thus, this is a problematic provision and does not stem from some reasonable reason. We are not in favour of setting quotas in the New Slovenia Group, but we are trying to achieve equality through the necessary education, education and equal opportunities, regardless of gender, race and so on. If we work in schools, in public life and at every step in this direction, then there will be no need to appear with quotas that mean underestimation in our opinion and we will achieve what is necessary. Of course, the question arises when setting quotas, what about the professions where women dominate, because we have generally dealt with the problem of women not having the same options - whether we will provide them. Some professions, activities or spheres of life require abilities, specific abilities that are more in the sphere of men's sex, or on the other hand certain skills, abilities that are more a domain of women's sex. Violent adjustment to a prokrust bed would be inappropriate in our opinion. In the debate on the Committee itself, I asked what the composition of the office was like for equal opportunities. And given that it is a 100% female collective, it could be called antiagens of equal opportunity. I hope this proportion changes, even for credibility. There are other areas that are worth touching. This is, for example, the allocation of children after divorce, where there is also an unequal possibility, especially for men; the inadequately higher percentage of the allocation of children to women is in our country compared to other countries. We hope that this law may also bring improvements to this sphere of life. However, there will be no support for measures, positive measures which are in conflict with constitutional provisions. Otherwise, it is necessary to introduce those who, in a constitutionally indisputable way, ensure the objectives of this law. This law will be supported in the event that amendments that improve the text are adopted and approved. However, we feel that the law itself will not bring any essential benefits. It's probably going to take care of things and do something else, not just this law. However, we have adopted far worse laws in our national congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u58	Thank you for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal for a law on equal opportunities. What is sad about this law is that we actually need such a law, despite all the observations, to treat women in some way as endangered species by this law. It is true that we already have in the constitution an article that speaks of equality for all citizens, regardless of race, sex, religion and so on. But unfortunately, the situation is completely different. Even with this law, unfortunately, changes will not happen overnight, but this is a step in the right direction. Only by amending legislation and introducing different quotas to increase women's participation in social life will we not achieve this. Women should be allowed to take part in themselves by also starting to engage in activities that are traditionally in the women's domain. Regrettably, behavioural patterns that lead to gender-based discrimination in general and will continue to be discriminated against until people’s opinions and behaviour change. Thus, we must strive to bring in the elements of gender equality by raising children and adolescents, and only through a few generations when they really start to behave as it is in the constitution will we no longer need such laws. It is sad that we must include articles such as these in this law. Article 26, which states: "Education for gender equality is an integral part of the education and education system, including, inter alia, the preparation of both genders for active equal cooperation in all areas of social life." But that should be self-evident. The law also gives new powers to the Office for Equal Opportunities, as it will be able to deal with cases of alleged discrimination under this law. This is particularly important if we know that persons who have so far felt discriminated against by their sex can only turn to courts. Many times, however, because of the slowness of the courts, they refused to let themselves down. The work of the Office will therefore be all the more important, although its powers are significantly lower than those of the courts. We certainly will not achieve perfect gender equality, not because of the biological differences between the sexes. In recent times, however, greater efforts have been made in the field of legislation to ensure equal opportunities for both sexes. As an example, I should mention the Labour Relations Act and the Parental Protection and Family Benefit Act, which, with parental protection and other rights, at least marginally equates the potential of both parents for the care of the child. However, it will only be when men are under the same pressure from employers to take paternity leave, but only then will gender be completely equal in this area. This does not mean that men are not also deprived in certain areas, especially here I think of individual professional branches in which women are mainly dominant. And that is why the adoption of this law is so important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u59	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Allow me to present to you some views of the Liberal Democracy on the Equal Opportunities Act or on the Correctional Law for Educated Conductal Samples if I replicate my previous interlocutor. Of course, first of all, I should say that it is certainly temporary to repeat the reasons for supporting the principles that advocate a policy of equal opportunity, so I will not focus on the reasons here. After all, even parties with liberal starting points should be eminent and such behaviour. I will not only refer to the positive levers brought by this law, but also to all the measures that will follow it. Many of these laws are accompanied by lulled smiles that are so principled that they will not bring fatalities to life. The law really reminds us of a national programme or a resolution, which in some way makes sense, because the implementation of a policy of equal opportunities goes back to all times of social life and, of course, to all the other laws that we have and will face. Therefore, a more specific reference to measures in this law is virtually impossible. The advantage of this law, which is not that it meets only the directives, after all, is not entirely new to us either. We have mainly absorbed these and many other directives in the Labour Relations Act, on parenting and other laws. We assume that its advantage is also in reopening or interpreting the constitutional provision on freedoms, namely Article 14, which is often narrowly understood, sometimes even controversially understood, which we have also encountered in the introduction of constitutional change initiatives. In short, when we open up the issue of resolving differences within the law, when there is no difference. For everyone by the Constitution, if I remind you of Article 14, is guaranteed the same human rights and fundamental freedoms, regardless of nationality, religion, political affiliation and other beliefs, as well as gender. We do not need this, nor do we need any other law, because fundamental freedoms are exercised directly on the basis of the Constitution, the law does not prescribe a means of implementation only when it is prescribed by the Constitution, if I continue with Article 15 or if I summarise a certain scepticism that has arisen in the service of law. It is probably also often an alibi for such a pragmatic understanding of the Constitution, especially in the part where we read the constitution forwards, where these provisions of fundamental human freedoms should exceptionally be repealed or restricted, only at a time when it is a time of war or emergency. After this deduction, we could say that we are coming, and after this pragmatism, we could even say that we can take positive action only in times of exceptional or extraordinary circumstances. But in this sense, I think it is important to open up the issue of fundamental human freedoms also to the higher-and-higher issue of gender equality. It is certainly worth stressing that positive discrimination is in the function of ensuring equal opportunities and not in the function of creating differences. If there were no difference, there would be no need for corrections, and in the end this law and any other article in other laws would be superfluous. That's what's gonna happen one day. Sweden, which has come the longest in this area, has started to introduce positive measures in the 1960s, now reaping very positive success. Even Slovenians, I must not ignore this, we have important steps to take in the past, especially in the previous period - if I only remind you of the 1974 Constitution, which speaks and which is one of the few that at that time absorbed the freedom to decide on the birth of children, unlike other countries that did not have it; that I am not talking about the status of the marriage, which was very courageously saved in Slovenia or Yugoslavia, rather than in other countries. However, we have clearly missed steps, for at least 60 years ago we received women's electoral rights and also exactly 60 years ago the first member of the Assembly, less than 60 years ago the first minister and 80 years ago the first doctor. In any case, it is difficult to justify a representative democracy in which the proportion of women in the largest representative body is barely 13.3%, and at this point perhaps 80 percent, because you are all women in it and in the government are good 18%, and if I make it simpler, I can say that after the Prime Minister's release I will say feminist. And those who observe well can also confirm that we bring more rationality, perhaps even a greater degree of responsibility, less narcissism, even less egoism, and often more quickly ridiculed responsibility. That's why I don't understand that if you just let this replica go, it would be an "antiagens" for equal opportunities in a national council where it would usually be a man or a go. Let me also draw attention to the amendment to this law, which in the Liberal Democracy seems to us to be quite important and is a binding item. It is an additional commitment by the government or individual ministries to obtain the opinion of the Office on equal opportunities before the law is examined in those laws that have a meaningful or greater impact on gender inequality issues. The Office for Equal Opportunities is, at the moment or so far, very weak in the enforcement of equal opportunities rules and its obligation to do so will be increased. This is also because, according to the new laws, the offices are in a rather uncertain situation in the future and can today, they may not be, tomorrow, given the government's availability, no longer a national assembly, after the adopted state administration law. Criminal sanctions that have been corrected are also important, not in the spirit of my previous interlocutor. We also like the fact that those political parties can also be punished - that, among other things, political parties can also be punished if they do not implement or show their action plans to ensure a policy of equal opportunity. I stress that the law does not bring any quotas and it is misleading to manipulate the term to which the Slovenian public is so highly allergic. Let us also point out that the State Council has not supported the equal opportunities law. It is interesting, however, to summarize his position or better his debate, which focused on the household role of a woman or on the positive characteristics of the household profession, which would be welcome if I quote the debate, "even in the finance ministry", in this debate, but did not come to the point where the host would be defined as the labour force in the service of the host. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Two more parliamentary groups, three, four are registered. I think there's not enough time for any more of them to present their opinions in these two minutes. That's how I interrupt this morning's session. And, as has already been foretold, at 2.30 p.m. we begin with the 1st item, initiatives and questions. It's 2:30. Thank you very much and good running, everyone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u62	Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats. It's two minutes past half past three. I invite everyone to come to the grand debate hall of the National Assembly. We will continue with the adjourned 17th session of the National Assembly. We have done a lot of work in two days of debate. Today we will have a point of the parliamentary initiative and questions, a point that we have moved forward due to the absence of the Prime Minister. I thank the National Assembly for its understanding. I would like to inform you that some colleagues are additionally excused: colleague Majnikova, Lavričeva, colleague of Cimperman, Lavrinc, Ašič, Vukko and colleague Partljič. Once again, I ask you to take your seats. I'll be there in a few moments. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 55 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. We're on shift 1. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS I already said we've moved the point to the invitation of the Prime Minister. I warmly welcome the Prime Minister, Minister and Minister of Government in the National Assembly. But I thank the National Assembly, as it were, for their understanding of this transition. The order for asking questions and initiatives remains the same as before. Members of the three opposition parliamentary groups will first ask questions, they will be answered by the Prime Minister Drnovšek, who will be followed by ministers and ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The first question will be raised by counterpart Levich to the Prime Minister. You have the floor, Comrade Levich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister! Before that time, you informed the Slovenian public of the final decision that you intend to run for President of the Republic of Slovenia. This means that if you are elected by the electorate, you will leave the post of Prime Minister. In various interviews, you yourself stressed that you do not want to cause periods of indecision, empty running, stagnation or political crisis. However, whether your potential departure from the post of prime minister will not lead to exactly this and, above all, to worse results. You yourself point out that this period before us is very crucial if not crucial for Slovenia. In our party, however, the importance of the situation is not seen as much in international coordination as you like to point out by yourself, but in the quality of life that the Young Slovenia Party believes is increasingly at risk. After ten years of existence of Slovenia as a country, you accept long-term strategic plans in individual areas, which clearly shows that they were gone before. However, this is only for some areas, while for a number of areas there are still no solutions or are only short-term ones that bring problems to the future and thus cause free running or so-called spins in a circle. Let me mention just a few areas that are extremely important to our client. When we adopted a half-year budget in 2001, you noted with pride that the allocation of budget money for the six-year period would reduce the budget deficit and thus indirectly reduce public debt. However, every day we note that the budget adopted has been unrealistic, as we have already pointed out in the Youth Party when it comes to adopting the budget. And public debt, in particular its repayment, is the next point I would like to point out. After our independence, we like to point out that the former Yugoslavia has left us debts, but let us never mention that we are imposing new debts on these old debts from year to year, which are significantly higher debts. But who's going to pay them and when, and it's still not clear today, and it's going to be a longer future. One of the areas you have left empty is pension reform, which has not yet been completed and requires more and more money from the budget for each year. The next area I would like to draw your attention to is the unemployment rate. The government notes that unemployment has been extremely low in the past year. Since last year it is really lower, but if we look at the whole of Slovenia or the individual region, the unemployment rate is significantly higher than the Slovenian average. We can even say that these areas are socially endangered. Here we cannot pass eastern Slovenia, where unemployment rates far exceed the Slovenian average. Let me mention only Celje with 17%, Maribor 21.5%, Murska Sobota, good 20%, Ptuj 22% unemployment rate. Inflation. This is the next problem facing Slovenia recently. According to you, there is no doubt that the price of oil and economic recession in the world is rising. You have partly admitted that inflation is also the result of your creation of social peace. However, do we not, as in other countries, also in Slovenia, have mechanisms to prevent these movements from falling quality of life for our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u64	Question is, or I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u65	The question is: In the Young Slovenia Party, we see your departure as an escape from the storm, which will be attended by the next prime minister or prime minister. If you can deny it, I wonder, Mr. Prime Minister, what kind of reception will you take? Please be as specific as possible so as not to lead to a period of indecision, empty flow and stagnation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I would like to remind everyone who asks the question that they must include a time when they also ask the question alone to justify the issue. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! You have asked quite a complex question and a series of arguments in this question, which, at least what I would say, could, of course, be labeled incorrect, or, as I would say, from a position, as if the situation in any country and in the world could ever be optimally and definitively regulated. This is not the case in any country in this world, nor in the most developed countries, problems are open everywhere. If you look at it, in all countries in the world there is a certain level of public debt and very few countries in the world have a lower level of public debt than Slovenia has. On the contrary, the majority has a higher average, the European Union average is significantly higher than our debt. We often hear a question or even a comparison with the former country, which, of course, is even depressed, as if then the level of indebtedness was lower than today. This is completely pointless; facts and figures are the opposite. Today even the foreign exchange reserves of the country are again moderately high, close to $6 billion, I think $5 billion was the last $6.5 billion in total debt. This is an extremely high level of external debt coverage, foreign exchange debt, foreign reserves, higher than is necessary for the sound and normal functioning of an economy. Slovenia even re-creates its balance-of-payment surplus as the only transit country, since, as a rule, all transition countries face a balance-of-payment deficit. All other indicators show that the situation is good, better than in comparable countries. It is true that economic growth in the last year is slightly lower than we anticipated or as it has been in previous years, but the global recession has also had a certain impact on our economic growth. However, this is higher at 3% last year, as was the case in Germany, where there was a zero growth rate and still is. And although Germany is our biggest economic partner, we have nevertheless succeeded or managed to create better movements than there, or the negative effects on our economy have been limited. These are the realities we face in this world. If we are talking about unemployment, I would not agree that unemployment in Slovenia is still a very serious problem, it is significantly smaller than it was. The actual unemployment rate, measured by the World Labour Organisation methodology, was 6.3%, which is very positive, lower than in previous years. This is therefore a better achievement than the average of the European Union, compared with many countries in the European Union. And so the being of the bell, when it's so bad that even the quality of life has fallen, that's not true. All indicators show the opposite: quality of life grew in Slovenia from year to year. And Slovenia is considered to be a very good and successful country in international comparisons and assessments in this regard. So - I find it difficult that in some ways I have to make such assessments myself, but also given by international institutions, given by foreign countries, statesmen. The fact is that in the last decade when I was the Prime Minister most of the time, Slovenia has made progress, made serious progress practically in all areas and is now seen as a successful country, a stable country, a politically stable country and also an economically successful country. When I visited the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia yesterday, I had to point out the sad fact that the country with which we used to be in a common state and almost at a comparable economic level today is far behind with a social product per capita, more than ten times lower than Slovenia has, not to mention all other indicators. But this is just one example, there are a number of other examples of similar cases in the world that show that the standard, quality of life, and also the political stability of Slovenia are not inherent in themselves and given on their own. That's why my assessment of everything was that after 10 years of running the Slovenian government, I think I can also think about leaving this leadership to someone else and choosing to run for another place. It would be hard to tell if I didn't last long enough in this place. And the questions that are now before us are normal questions. All countries are this year, most countries have implemented budget rebalancies due to tight international conditions due to lower inflows to budgets. We have already announced, at the time of the proposal of our budget, that flexibility will be needed and that we will respond to actual events, because in such an environment it is difficult to predict exactly all assumptions and all movements. And of course, that's how we react. Inflation, however, is declining. And all the interviews and all the evaluations that we have had recently, including with Banka Slovenija, with our economists and with government economists, ministers, indicate that there is a decline in expectations of a declining movement in the coming months, and that this inflation, which, of course, is only one in all, is not so critical. That this inflation is on its way down again, to the point where we were already before the introduction of value added tax and the promotion of energy in global markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Would you like another question? Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u69	Thank you very much. I think it's a bit of an inappropriate comparison to a country that's been at war for 10 years, how much better we are now. I'd just like to ask you something else. The tasks of the Prime Minister are similar, very similar to that of a captain, either bringing the ship safely to the dock or going with it - when the crisis is. Then how can you, in fact, Mr Prime Minister, decide to leave the government most likely before the completed projects of joining the EU and NATO, in the face of all the problems mentioned above, such as those mentioned earlier? Does that mean you've decided to jump out of this sinking ship, or is that something else? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u70	President, would you like to respond further? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u71	I'll try it again. I mentioned the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia because I was there yesterday, and there was a comparison at hand, and because sometimes we had a comparable standard and lifestyle. It is, of course, a variety of other countries to which we can compare and where these comparisons for Slovenia are very beneficial. Anyone who lives in this world, the real world, beyond our borders, knows more or less. And these are the assessments and recognitions that we generally receive. I therefore reiterate that the current situation in Slovenia is stable enough, strong enough and that the possible change in governance should not pose a problem. European processes are also so far away, so our accession to the European Union is so far away that this process is irreversible.The National Assembly is well aware of how long and how intensively we have carried out all activities, that we are in the final stage of negotiations, that we are now waiting for the reconciliation of negotiating positions between the members of the European Union so that we can complete the last chapters. That things are more or less already well defined and well known. And what could affect the pace of enlargement in the coming months, that is, that the European Union would not possibly stick to the deadline itself, is actually factors within the European Union. Not with us, but within the European Union. We are already seeing, because of the German elections, that there is a delay in establishing a common negotiating position for agriculture, and also some other elections this year have affected whether the whole story will be completed by the end of this year or perhaps months later, so, for these reasons, the internal reasons of the European Union. But the process is irreversible and Slovenia has done more or less what was necessary. On the other hand, I should almost thank such critics. Because with such questions, they actually give me a lot of confidence because they ask questions about whether I should leave the post of Prime Minister or whether it is not better for me to stay in this place. Because if things were as bad as you said they would probably not convince me to remain Prime Minister, but I'd probably be happy to step down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Your next question will be asked by your colleague Dr. Bayuk. You have the floor, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! You must know the craftsmen's fund, where Slovenian craftsmen have been providing pension insurance since 1956. The fund operated under the single pension scheme and in accordance with the same principles as those applicable to compulsory pension insurance provided by the PSPI, i.e. by means of a certified system. As a good host, however, it was already concluded in 1990 that this system, "pay as you go" in the long run, does not provide the insured with sufficient security, so in the context of the regulations at the time, it started the transition to the investment system and created some 16.6 billion tolls of reservations. However, this is not enough to transform the entire trust fund into a pension fund financed by an investment principle, since, given the high expectations - we have seen an insurance account from previous years - it would need even higher mathematical reservations. The problem of the conversion of the craftsmen's fund was therefore legally resolved in the Pension Insurance Act of 1999 by the State taking over the liabilities of the funds at the expense of the insurance of craftsmen before 1983. Unfortunately, however, expectations have deteriorated because the state does not meet its obligations to the craftsmen's fund. Neither in the final accounts of the 2000 budget nor in the budget documents of the following years have I observed a single word about the commitment of the state budget to the craftsmen's fund. In view of the number of retired members of the craftsmen's fund, which were included in the insurance before 1983, the State budget should have paid more than 800 million tolls of liabilities already in 2000. Since then and until now, these obligations have only increased. In short, according to our assessment, the state owes the craftsmen's stock ca. Two billion dollars. According to the information I received, neither the state budget paid nor the tolar of its obligations to the craftsmen's fund. This causes not only direct damage due to the loss of income, but is a much greater moral damage at the expense of the lesser confidence of insurers and potential insurers who know that the craftsmen's fund can only survive, provided that the State fulfils its already accepted obligations to provide pensions to craftsmen who have entered into insurance before 1983. Dear Prime Minister! I ask you: Why did the government not pay its obligations to the craftsmen's fund for 2000 after the bill submitted by the craftsmen's fund in 2001? And: Why does the government not pay the stock of craftsmen, for example, monthly advances at the expense of its obligations as in the case of Spiz for 2001 and 2002? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u74	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u75	Thank you. Your Honor! The government has dealt intensively with this issue and has recently adopted a comprehensive scheme to address this issue. The liability of the craftsmen's fund has taken over the capital fund and the State has provided adequate assets as a counterweight to the capital fund to assume this obligation. So this question, according to our assessment, is solved. On the details, you have asked more detailed questions, and this can be discussed in more detail by the Minister of Finance, where this question also belongs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u76	Please, Mr. Secretary. Mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u77	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The issue of the craftsmen's fund has been on the government's agenda for a long time, and we have also dealt with this issue in the adoption of the law on pension and disability insurance itself. It is true, as you said, Dr. Bayuk, that the issue of this fund is related to the way the pension system works fully and in this context also the fund of craftsmen according to the principle of "pay as you go" of the system. This means, of course, that those payments which were made at a time when the craftsmen who were actually forced to join this part of the insurance were not sufficient to later, on a capital basis, be able to pay pensions at an appropriate amount, so that there was a de facto similar deficit as in the basic pension allowance in Spiza. When we adopted the pension law, we decided to actually take care of the craftsmen's fund, so that we could cover the current income losses. Later, however, there was a dilemma as to the amount of the minimum obligations guaranteed by the budget to be covered. Indeed, there were two views on this and also a different amount of these obligations. That is why we have decided to work together with the Ministry of Labour to find a comprehensive solution. This means that we look at the overall deficit of the craftsmen's fund and save it once and for all. In order to do so, our assessment requires a very thorough review of all liabilities, all investments of the craftsmen's fund, all those who later paid into the craftsmen's fund and who go with their pensions on the basis of capital financing, all those who have been insured in previous and past years. In order to allow this to happen, we agreed, together with the capital fund, to prepare a project for a comprehensive solution, and the government adopted a decision proposing to the capital fund to prepare a "due diligence" and fully assume all the obligations of the craftsmen's fund. And this is part of the capital fund transformation scheme, by which we want to drive part of the pension insurance through additional pension insurance, the first pension fund, the craftsmen's fund and so on. In short, the "due diligence" is now under way, a careful review of the craftsmen's fund, and once it is completed, an appropriate recapitalisation of this fund will be carried out and will be fully and fully paid and guaranteed the payment of all pensions to all those insured in the craftsmen's fund that have paid their contributions to the craftsmen's fund. And that seemed to be the best solution we could come up with, so that's what we've come up with.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Complementary question, Comrade Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Thanks for the answers, too. The fact is that I have to add to this that, even in the proposal for a budget rebalancing, I have not seen any data on these obligations which the Slovenian State has to bear on this particular craft fund and which I estimate is for at least 2 billion tolars. If I understand correctly, Mr Minister is talking about a comprehensive problem that may be even bigger, but this raises the question of the credibility of the public finances data that this National Assembly and the wider Slovenian public have at all. Above all, I am concerned, and I am asking this question, that the pension fund, as it was designed at the beginning when it was intended to use only dividends to cover current deficits, will increase further and its effectiveness will be jeopardised by adding a solution such as I have understood that it is currently in the government's hands. I ask you: When will the National Assembly be informed of all the information on the pension fund in all its versions? And: What future can we actually have if we did not solve these things in time in accordance with the law, as a man would expect in the rule of law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u80	Prime Minister, can the Minister answer? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u81	So, Dr. Bajuk, the capital company was established when it was established, in accordance with the Property Change Act and the Law on the Use of the Purchase, which provided that part of the privatisation shares are intended for the capital company, the capital fund, to cover the pension insurance liabilities. It has never been specified precisely and precisely what are the purposes of the Slovenian citizens' pension insurance obligations, which will continue to be covered by the liabilities of the capital company. Even the solution was quite different in one version, when we thought about pension reform, we thought intensively - Members will remember - to finance the establishment of a mandatory second pension pillar to finance additional pension insurance for all Slovenian citizens. And if such a solution were to be adopted, then it would not apply in any way to the solution that you were talking about in order for dividends to be earmarked for the current financing of the pension fund. The fact is that at that time we decided not to go to the second pillar from above, but from below, so we adopted the concept of tax relief and in Slovenia there is now an accelerated second pillar, but on the second path, so that they are recognised to companies setting up additional pension insurance, a relatively large tax relief. My assessment is that this project is very successful. In this context, these liabilities of the capital company have been waived and the capital company assumes some other liabilities. One of these commitments is the financing of the deficit of Spizaozirom’s deficit, which has arisen in recent years. One of the obligations is the first pension fund, which is exactly what we talked about the last time. And one of the obligations that we consider to be very meaningful is the craftsmen's fund. And this craftsmen's fund, as I have said, will also be covered in this context and the whole obligation will be known when a careful review of this craftsmen's fund is carried out. Some preliminary estimates suggest that these obligations could be up to 19 billion in the following year. And we will of course, if you want to, in detail, familiarize you with the results of a careful examination and also with all the checks that will be carried out below. What matters to me, however, is the government's commitment, and also to capital companies, that the problems of the craftsmen's fund, the problems of insurers are fully and comprehensively solved. And that's what we're doing, and we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thirdly, the last question to the Prime Minister is raised by his colleague Peca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u83	Your Honors are here! They say it was a beautiful sunny day on 27.7.1994. At that time, this National Assembly, or our country, passed a constitutional law, a constitutional law for the implementation of the basic constitutional charter on the independence and independence of the Republic of Slovenia, by which the legislative branch of the authorities, on the proposal of the executive branch of the Authority, transformed the Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Credit Bank into a new status bank, the Novo Ljubljanska Banka and the New Bank of Maribor. The country then transferred the past debt of both old banks to citizens, citizens and citizens and thus burdened them with a very high financial amount. At the same meeting, i.e. on that sunny day eight years ago, this State Assembly, on a proposal from one of the political parties, also adopted an additional decision as a guardian. The conclusion is that the preparation of the privatisation law will take into account the participation of citizens in the rehabilitation of banks. What does that mean? This means that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia then committed itself to preparing a law with the exact name of the Privatisation Act for the privatisation of banks and that the content of this law will go in a specific direction. This is that citizens and citizens who participated in the rehabilitation will be paid for the value of the rehabilitation. These were all of us, all of us, or citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. For an easier and probably better answer, it makes sense to remind yourself of what was happening at that meeting where the government made its position clear and explicit. The beginning was that the meeting was closed to the public, that the material was marked strictly confidential, and that the then chairman of the National Assembly, Mr Rigelnik, had only informed the public through a press release. So the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia didn't know what was going on, what a scam was going on under your leadership, Drnovšek, in 1994 was you or you were already a mandate-holder. Furthermore, Mr France Bučar, then a Member, notes that by this law, we have established a new constitutional category by constitutional law that both banks have become constitutional categories. I guess that tells you something, too, at least it should. It is interesting, however, that the then Chairman of the Finance Committee, Mr Janez Kopač, who is today a minister in your government, has made it strict and clear that the method of property transformation will be determined by a special law that will apply to all banks in recovery or mainly to the Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Credit Bank, and that this law will be introduced by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia into the procedure, I am reading magnetic records. And beyond that, the then finance minister, Minister of Finance, Mr. Gaspari, who, according to the new government, like everyone else, has been rewarded for his past sins has become [[...]] [[Warning beep for the end of the debate.]] Governor of the Bank of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u84	question. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u85	He says that the proposal, which was finally adopted, is a good proposal and that the government will build its future policy on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u86	My friend Peca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u87	The government sold to the bank in contravention of all decisions, constitutional standards and legal arrangements of the State of the Republic of Slovenia [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u88	My friend Peca [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u89	Can I have a comment, please? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u90	Please, Mr. Prime Minister. Do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u91	I think that the issue we have already discussed and the legal basis for the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank have already been clarified in the National Assembly, and finally adopted. The situation in 1994 and the then constitutional law, as you spoke about, was related to finding a solution to our financial system, after our largest banks from the previous system, from the previous country, came up with certain obligations that could not have been covered by the asset at the time, with investments, because of those exceptional circumstances, because of the collapse of the current financial system and the then central bank, which was actually preparing an essential element in ensuring balance in the banks' balance sheets. After their independence, the Slovenian government and parliament had two options: either to bring these banks to bankruptcy or to rehabilitate them. According to the general common assessment, the bankruptcy option was much more costly and would have far more serious consequences for our economy, as well as for our citizens, who would lose a significant part of their resources in this case. That's why we decided then to rehabilitate both banks and implement them. We have done it successfully, so these banks are now completely normal banks that have been operating for some time and covering all their needs, goals, all their activities and also service the economy and the citizens. In that situation, it was also necessary to establish a protector for possible actions and unilateral solutions to this situation by entities outside the Slovenian State. Therefore, it has been sought and expertly endorsed by all institutions of our experts the solution that the old liabilities of both banks are being eliminated and that, in fact, the old banks, their framework, are being eliminated and that two new banks are being set up that can operate. The old banks, with their obligations, foreign exchange obligations, especially foreign exchange savings, are then subject to further activities in success and then in success, in negotiations with other countries, successors, looking for a solution to what is left of the former Yugoslav financial and monetary system. This solution has proved to be optimal so far. It is true that success is still in progress, but it is nearing a dissipation. We expect and work to see a common successful agreement soon, and thus also this definitive resolution of these financial issues from the past, from the previous country. This is a deal between entities from different countries, the cooperation of international communities. I don't think there's any need to stress that this is a lot of complicated difficult processes. We had to exclude our banks and their current and future activity from this past so that the banks could meet the needs of our economy and our citizens, and that we are particularly dealing with what is past, past financial relations, which remains unresolved from the former financial system. The taxpayers' funds were used appropriately and produced a result. To a large extent, they will now be reimbursed by partial privatisation first of all of the New Ljubljana Bank. Of course, taxpayers participate in this transaction; for the first time, they cooperated with the bank's presence, and for the second time now that the bank is qualified to do so, these liabilities, the public debt in this title, will be able to recover. This is also the fundamental objective that the government had in privatising the bank to repay taxpayers' obligations, to properly reduce public debt, which, of course, means that public finances in other areas can be burdened and that this is felt in an indirect form by taxpayers. This process, both more successful and on the other hand final, will continue to privatise the two banks, and we will carry out a final recovery of the public debt from this title. To a large extent, this has already been done. And according to the general assessment, the experts, ours and others, are successful processes, quite complex, but we have done them well in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. I received a written request for a debate. Would you like a supplement first? Please, my friend Peca. Then I will inform the National Assembly of the request to hold a debate in accordance with the second paragraph. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u93	Mr Drnovšek, I'm sorry you didn't answer the question I asked you. Among other things, you have found that recovery has been successfully completed. Congratulations! The Bank of Slovenia found this in 1997 when it said that it was able to provide a partial source of funding for legal and natural persons through rehabilitation in the Republic of Slovenia. Congratulations on your conclusion. I'm asking you something else. I ask you or ask you to claim that you are selling the New Ljubljana Bank and sales procedures, the sale procedures of the New Maribor Credit Bank are unconstitutional and to the detriment of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. While you and your finance minister, Tone Rop, who is now turning with his eyes, claim that citizens or you call them taxpayers, will be paid for the money they have saved, you are selling the bank. You sell the first part to the Belgians, the second part to the EBRD. In our country, where there are about two million citizens and citizens, there is not one - and I will say so in your opinion - taxpayers who would be participating in the privatisation of banks for the time being. How can you say that privatisation is done in a way that will ensure financial stability in our country in the long term? As you probably know, the financial institutions are the institutions that are making economic, cultural and all other developments in our country. All European countries adhere to the principle that they have the main banks, those with the largest market share, in their own ownership, because they influence monetary and fiscal policies and economic movements. Today, eight years after that law you knew, you decided to sell the banks past all agreed principles, past all legal channels, past the law - Mr Drnovšek and the Slovenian government, there is no law on the privatisation of banks. The privatisation of banks does not take place transparently and there is no involvement of citizens. In view of the importance of the matter, I refer to Article 29, which states that a parliamentary group in the National Assembly can hold a debate on the Government's agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Would you like the Prime Minister to reply further now, or would the government take the time to explain the rules of procedure in 15 minutes? Now or later? Do you want it now? Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u95	I think everything has already been said in this National Assembly and also in public. I think you've also initiated a constitutional review, but it was rejected, as I was informed on this matter. The legal framework is set up in this National Assembly for this purpose. However, as regards the participation of citizens or taxpayers, which is the professional term in this case, I explained that taxpayers were burdened indirectly by the fact that, at the time of the beginning of the 1990s, the State, for the rehabilitation of both banks, hired loans or issued bonds, meaning an increase in public debt, had set up some public debt with which it acquired funds to rehabilitate both banks. Now that the banks have been rehabilitated, the state can now regain adequate funds by privatising these banks to repay the public debt generated by this title. It will also relieve those taxpayers who have been potentially or indirectly burdened, thereby eliminating public debt and this credit obligation. Once again, I find that the entire transaction has been successful and that we have carried it out in the best possible way, in the interests of our citizens. Thus we have a successful bank and from this title our citizens are not burdened or can only benefit from better banking. Of course, the economy, which has been receiving the necessary financial services from both banks all the time. If necessary, then the Minister of Finance will add something.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u96	Do you want the Minister now or later as the government's answer to the question? You want it later. We are therefore moving on to the implementation of the provision of Article 29 of the second paragraph. I give the opportunity, at the request of the delegation group, in this case the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, to hold a debate on the government's response. First he has the word, and within 15 minutes, the proposer, later has the same time, 15 minutes, the representative of the government, behind him representatives of the five-minute parliamentary groups. Please, my friend Peca, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u97	Perhaps all Members are aware of the importance of this debate. I hope that government representatives will also be aware of this importance. Mr Drnovšek, once again you correctly determine when you say that the legal framework is set. Indeed, in 1994 it was set up and later also by a guarantee law for issued bonds. But you do not adhere to this legal framework, which has been laid down in law. It's the government that doesn't stick to this frame. If we were to stick to the framework and sell or privatize the banks to the system as promised by the same government in 1994, everything would be nice and right. Then the citizens get theirs. Slovenians would keep financial institutions. But now, what are we doing? Citizens don't get their own. And secondly, I'm going to quote you in part, you say "transaction is successful" and "we have successful banks." No, we don't have them anymore. That's the difference, Mr. Drnovšek. You may consider us citizens of the European Union and it is not an important nationality. But the Slovenians are losing banks right now. In our view or in my opinion, this is an original sin. The original sin that this country will unfortunately bury or lower it in the abyss than it is now. From your answer, perhaps a layman would come to the conclusion that everything is fine and fine. However, the procedures through which you and your finance minister, Tone Rop, went on to sell or privatise banks were incomplete, despite the fact that you have rented foreign financial advisory houses for which Minister Rop does not want to give us any information on how they charged the Slovenian government for their opinion, how to approach privatisation. But let me tell you. The Slovenian government did not calculate domestic absorption power: how much could Slovenia bear if the Slovenians bought them? And these were the demands of respectable macroeconomics, the advice of the government, and you ignored them. Furthermore, what I think is one of the biggest sins, you sold the New Ljubljana Bank without calculating how much this bank is worth. And let me quote from here the plan of former Finance Minister Gaspari, who says in his debate: "The assembly to clarify that we would not leave the Chamber in dilemmas," this was a speech in 1994 and that you will see how this government converts into a few years; "the bank will privatise at the estimated value that will have to be done just before it is privatized." Of course, there is no estimated value today. Further, it is said, not at today's value, but those values, on the day before the privatisation, in 2002, in which we are in. This is what's said to be estimated, as is the case with companies. At that time, the entire assets, the capital of the state-owned bank, will not only be what we have issued in bonds, and our country has charged citizens and citizens with 2200 million German marks in bonds. I speak in German brands because the law also applies to German brands, but in value, the present value will also include all profits. Let me remind you that only two of the biggest banks, Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kreditna Banka, have as a constitutional matter, so I expose them to profits of 15 billion a year. We or you, rather than you, are selling these banks for 90 billion. The purpose of why I even decided to take advantage of this business opportunity today and open a broader debate is two in particular. Firstly, because I would like to hear or like to see that some representatives of political or party authorities are involved in the debate. These are the people we have already invited in the Slovenian National Party in March to begin to understand the importance of selling to foreigners our national interests or institutions, however you wish. In particular, I expected this from the Slovenian People's Party, which in 1994 ensured and demanded that a special decision be put in place to make privatisation for the benefit of citizens. Today, or I emphasize in 1994, the People's Party was not in the government, today, when you are in the government, gentlemen of the People's Party, you all support, your ministers support a system that is detrimental to citizens. And on the other hand, the political organisation, which is also represented in this national council, is a socialdemocrat. Years ago, you filed a law on the privatisation of banks, you refer to a special decision again in 1994, today you're acting deaf again. The second purpose, however, is to try to break the ignorant false attitude of the Slovenian government and Minister Rope towards Slovenian citizens in connection with the sale or donation of Slovenian banks. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1994, this significant year, which has played an important role in the development of Slovenian banks, we are this constitutional law on which we are [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] adopted by a two-thirds majority. Already this needed quorum majority or required majority tells us to play, talk, or sell one of the most sensitive materials in this country. We're dealing with constitutional matter. This is not a matter that a political leader could apply from day to day because of his partial interests, but unfortunately, this is happening in Slovenian politics. In the beginning, you were talking about how meaningful it was to transform the Ljubljana Bank and the Maribor Credit Bank. True, both banks were in debt. The first part of these debts was due to the former debt of the SFRJ. This was an allusion to debt and part of an unabated debt. However, the second part of the debt stems from the incompetence of the then Ljubljana Bank, the administration you are again rewarding today, especially the Ljubljana Bank, when it was buying debts on the secondary market, mainly through companies called "obb Shore". Why? Because you can't find out about their owner. Because the commissions were very large and because they are all paid by Slovenian citizens and citizens. Let me tell you two of these cases, because you're probably familiar, but still, for others and maybe for viewers. The new Ljubljanska banka swapped the claims of 3 million German brands to Mikdoem for the debt of 4.3 million marks. Is it cost-effective for someone to swap $3 million for 4.3? No, it's to the detriment of our country. And you people who have done this are still rewarding with new mandates today. Second case. The Ljubljana Bank was buying debt through Proinvest, at 70 cents per dollar, while on the world market the market price was 40 cents per dollar. Let me tell you, Mikroem and Proinvest are coming out of the market. Both banks failed later and criminal charges were filed. Don't say it's clean business. This strange work, this non-financial work was then also pointed out by Banka Slovenije, specifically Governor Mr. Arhar, who you later replaced. However, since such transactions carried out by the Ljubljana Bank in those years would not have survived without the help of politics, politics intervened and gave in 1994 a constitutional law that we can understand, as you said, or otherwise, which was a silence, silence to all the business they carried out in these Slovenian banks in order to get rid of the deficit and simply transferred the deficit to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia at the then value of 2,200 million German marks. However, there are many, many costs, including the establishment and operation of an agency, which is by no means negligible in law. Okay, we've reached the constitutional law. With constitutional law you want to-you don't want us to set up two new banks. At that time, Mr Gaspari, Minister of Finance of the week, always stressed that we could take the following position at the time of possible sale or that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would take the same position. For the first time, to take into account the participation of citizens, this is what Slovenian national wants Slovenian citizens to get paid once also what they have invested. And secondly, such a sale will be made transparently. Unfortunately, in our country, however, it is possible only through law and not through various government decisions, on the basis of which you are privatising both banks today. I got an answer from Finance Minister Toneto Rope in the thickness of this file. He said that the two decisions of the government were the most important and that, based on your own judgment with your own knowledge, the ministerial knowledge, for which a lot of people appreciated it as knowledge, I personally, as ignorance, achieved that we sold the bank today, that we sold the bank today, whose savings value was 400 billion Slovenian tolars, and today you sell it for 90 billion. And where's the receipt? How can you say that this will reduce public debt? We put 400 billion in banks' rehabilitation, you're selling it for 90 billion. And even though it was promised as early as 1994, when the New Ljubljana Bank and Nova Credit Bank Maribor will be sold, they will be re-evaluated to include the annual profits, to include the real estate, the investments they have abroad are also golf courses. We cannot sell such things as the richest Slovenian bank, with 70% market share, for 90 billion! Please! We all know or all those who have been accompanied by this shameful work of the Slovenian government are familiar with Article 19 of the Banking Act. We know that this 34% is even more important than if the Belgians only bought 33. The Slovenian banks or the Ljubljana Bank are already crawling through our fingers, through our hands, and we will lose them forever. You've taken 150,000 Slovenian tolls from every citizen with your work. According to your response earlier to the representatives of the Youth Party, this is not even worrying, because Slovenians live in such a way that 150,000 tolars does not represent anything to us. Mr Drnovšek, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are entitled to reimbursement of these funds, until the recovery of these funds. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia have been placed on the feet of Novo Ljubljanska Banka and Novo Credit Bank Maribor. Of course, none of this is happening today. Minister Rop even points out that we gave the banks to the best bidder. Yes, of course, we gave them to the best bidder, but if he was alone. Who are your ministers, excuse me, making a fool of themselves? Without the estimated value, the government vehemently claims: to the best bidder. Yes, please, of course, there was one single bidder. Without taking into account the recovery of the profit of the market share of the inputs and the like. In the Slovenian National Party we tried several things that would lead us to sell banks for, say, the good of the Slovenian people. As you probably know, yes, we have taken the initiative to assess constitutionality. Why the initiative and not the request - because we have not found 30 Members' signatures that would agree with the protection of national interests. The Constitutional Court has proven that it operates on the basis of telephone calls. The Constitutional Court did not question or answer what we asked them: whether the decision of 1994 was harmonised or whether the decisions of the Government were in line with the 1994 decision of the National Assembly. They didn't, but they didn't respond to it, but the constitutional court we have is what we have. Furthermore, we gave eight initiatives to the government when all the ministers voted whether you would sell the banks to the Belgians or not. All the ministers or there was one hero who would have hoped to oppose it. Is it a political will, or is it a national consciousness to lose the most profitable thing in our country? I don't think so. I think the government is playing with our country. Even when you say that the purchase of this 90 billion, 34%, will achieve its goal, because it will go to reducing public debt, please, it is spitting into the sea of public debt, to reducing. Through normal sales, transparent sales, sales at the right time, and here I should mention Mr Kučan, who specifically emphasises that now is not the time to sell banks, because the supply and demand of banks are not at the same level as would suit the provider, that is to say us. But no! The Slovenian government, why, to whom in honor, has it decided to sell these things? In addition, in the Slovenian National Party, as you probably know or should know, we also put in the procedure a proposal for a law banning the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. As is probably clear to all of you and to all Members, democracy in this National Assembly represents only one hundredth of the matter, in short, there is no insignificant democracy in here. All members of the Liberal Democracy - indeed, I must admit, in the elections you have received this mandate - you will walk the law, you will support what your finance minister has cooked - lost Slovenian banks. We asked the President of the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting at which we could speak politically and in cooperation with individual experts. If the National Assembly convenes an extraordinary meeting for every smallest thing, the leadership of this National Assembly is not ready to call when we are talking about selling the largest banks. I think that this is no longer a pride of democracy and not of any political party who is so quick to sell and for such a ridiculously low price to sell or give to Slovenian banks. Mr. Drnovšek, because I'm running out of time, please, at least this time be so fair and don't call me a populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u98	Before I give my word to the Minister of Finance, mags. Robbery, just an explanation. When setting and grading the agenda, it shall not decide on the college or on specific topics, but on the business conditions. The business conditions in your case were not met, so we did not put this topic on the agenda. Minister Rob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! Of course, it is very difficult to respond to so many accusations, some of which would likely be very difficult to find to hold. Thus it is not clear to me which privatisation Mr Pece was talking about - the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank certainly not because the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank is not and is not happening as he explained. Mr. Pece, we didn't lose our banks, we didn't lose our banks. We have embarked on partial privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank with a targeted ownership structure, a third, a third: a third. A third is a key investor, a third is a portfolio investor and a third is a country. Where was the bank sold all the way here? Who sold the bank in full? Who and when did he sell the bank for 90 billion dollars? Of course, these are completely illogical questions. The fact is, depending on the euro rate for a third share, or we will get when the sale is realized when the Bank of Slovenia agrees, 100 billion. This, of course, means, in other words, that the implicit price is 300 billion, not the 90 billion that Mr Pece is talking about. I really don't know which privatisation he was talking about. I don't know where he got the unusual information. Information that the valuation of the New Ljubljana Bank has not been carried out. It's a complete misinformation, a misinformation. On the contrary, a thorough, careful review of the value was made regarding the New Ljubljana Bank. The valuations exist, the valuations are documented and, of course, can be seen exactly how much the valuation was made at the beginning of the privatisation and how much we have survived. More than 100% more than what has been estimated by valuation, which is called fair market price and value. Nor is it true that only one bidder, or only one demander, came forward. When we started with non-deceptive offers, you know there were more than seven of them. You know well that in the end you were left with 2 and one quit because the Slovenian government decided to sell a minority share at this stage, a third of the whole bank. Thus, absolute form of these indications, which was mentioned here, is not true. If I am going to the formal side of this story, which we have now heard a lot about, then it has been quite clear that several times in this National Assembly, that we have been working exclusively and solely on the basis of the law, that the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, as well as the privatisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank, was the foundation of the 2001 Zippro, 2002 and the National Assembly has again addressed this subject, placed it on the agenda and, of course, also included it in the amendments to the Public Finance Act. In three laws we have actually repeated methods, ways of privatisation and the basis for the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. And here we're listening to a text that tells us that we did privatisation without a legal basis. It just doesn't hold, it's not true, and it can be proved that it's not true. All you need to do is look at the documentation, including our answers and, after all, the law. That we just did a privatisation thing like that. No, no, no. We have done privatization professionally, according to all the professional principles in force in the world, in ways that all privatisations around the world take place whenever state property is privatised. With regard to privatisation, there is precise documentation, documentation, of course managed by the Privatisation Commission, in which the eminent Slovenian experts are both legal and economic. We have also made it very clear in the debate in the National Assembly that we do not object at any time to having such a discussion, which is of course more professional in nature and based on facts within the framework of the parent committee, because, in the framework of the closed meeting, we can disclose all the information that is otherwise a business secret, regarding the purchase contract, I reiterate the third part that no one would say that the bank has been fully donated, as well as specific contracts between shareholders, which is extremely and extremely important. Why is it so important? Since it sets out relations between shareholders because it sets out the rights and obligations of both shareholders and clearly proves that the Slovenian State and all shareholders, including Slovenian parties, will have a decisive corporate impact on the functioning and functioning of the New Ljubljana Bank in the coming years. So to the administration in which the Slovenian State will be able to propose four members in the coming years, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] Who's supposed to buy a whole bank, just one member. We only have a majority stake in the supervisory board. On the other hand, there is also a document called the Memorandum of Cooperation, which specifies exactly what the programme objectives of the New Ljubljana Bank are, if you want shareholders and a new key partner, and which discusses what new products we will offer Slovenian citizens on this market, which better services we will offer, how we will increase the competitiveness of insurance, how we will, if you want, simplify, reduce margins, increase competitiveness, give them lower interest, both to the Slovenian economy and to Slovenian citizens. Far from the fact that Slovenian citizens would have nothing to do with it. We have only sold the third-party share or made possible an important part of today's debt recovery. There was also a speech about how much profits these two banks had. This year, we will get around 2.6 billion out of dividends, only on interest savings, from the withdrawal of recovery bonds, which we will withdraw, of course, will be more than 10 billion each year. Only from this address. We will continue to have practically two thirds of the bank and, of course, we believe that the dividend will eventually be greater because we will have a larger and more efficient bank. So, where are those things that Pache said? I must say, in this story, at least I find them very difficult. And also in terms of absorption ability. We estimate that the absorption capacity will be very clear. We have very clearly committed the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, which, by the way, is also our bank, in a contract between shareholders. This is the European Bank, this is a bank in which the Slovenian State is also a shareholder, where we have our representatives, in which we have just received an assistant director in the constitution. We have committed ourselves to the European Bank and it has agreed that in the next four years, we will offer these shares to domestic shareholders over and over again so that they can buy this bank with a discount and that we will increase the share of domestic private owners because we want domestic portfolio investors to also come to the New Ljubljana Bank and that we are aiming at this third structure that we are talking about. Let me finish. Our assessment is absolutely clear and can always be documented and we are always ready for a reasoned and professional debate on the fact that with this sales of a third share for this country, for these citizens, I hope, we have done a relatively good deal. Good business because we believe that this will result in a better bank, better services for citizens and the economy, and in particular a significantly smaller public debt. Mr Pece says that this is completely irrelevant; our assessment is that if you reduce public debt practically by 10%, this is an important achievement. And I believe you agree with that, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u100	Any of the government's representatives want to complete the answer? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude my reply to the representatives of the government and give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Mr Podobnik, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, asked for the floor first. [[five minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, Ministers, Members of Parliament and colleagues! It is already a practical business possibility for the current rules of procedure to answer the Prime Minister's questions, the only option when Members can also contact the Prime Minister directly. And there is, as a rule, a place in Parliament where political positions are expressed, so to speak, what is our view of an issue that is important. Another strange thing is that through these back doors - the National Assembly now back, the Primors would say "more k'sno" - opens questions and gets information about the partial sale of the New Ljubljana Bank. It was a mistake. The National Assembly should have talked about this before. This was a major mistake, including the leadership of the National Assembly, that it did not allow this to happen. That's my humble opinion. I remember, you know, that hot summer day in 1994, I was an actor at the time. In a way, sometimes it is very wise to read a magnetogram of events in the past. These were the times when a party called the Slovenian People's Party was crippled. These were the times when Prof. Zagodan, Marjan Podobnik, Jara Pregelj and others honored their parliamentary mandate. I was alone with them, and I'm proud of them, very proud of them. By the way, colleague Peca, if members of the Slovenian People's Party had the opportunity to decide on this solution, they would have followed Dr. Zagozno's decision at the time. Our votes would be as they were taken in 1994. Unfortunately, the Members did not vote on anything directly. My voice would be clear and not ambiguous. Last time I told him publicly, too. But now things are over in some way. How politics should behave when a decision has taken place. We have to worry about the credibility of the state, the government is a representative of the state, the government has to make decisions that are also credible in the international public, etc. We are a government party and we are fully aware of this, but the space of policy is the space that generates this issue and will open it up. I'm sure it's a topic we're going to talk about this year. Last but not least, Dr. Arhar, Drnovšek, there are two key presidential candidates, two important players in these issues have a diametric opposite view of this issue. Do you have any idea what the quality of the face will be like in this subject? I look forward to the election campaign and look forward to the questions and answers on this subject. This will also enrich the political space in Slovenia. In politics, it is necessary to have a clear position and defend it, but always by a majority decision. There's something else I'd like to say. I didn't put a question on the big bell that I asked. In response, the government used the code confidentially and I respect it. But the question was raised on the basis of reading Slovenian journals in this May, so it reads. In some Slovenian media, especially printed, for example Evening, 4 May, there have recently been various comments on the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to sell the stake of the New Ljubljana Bank to the Belgian Bank of KBC. This raised some questions that merit careful consideration. In this regard, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: When selling the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank to Slovenian taxpayers, did it provide all the necessary data on the level of the obligation, and to what obligations is the contractually agreed compensation clause on which the NCB, which is the buyer, insists? Does the Belgian bank of the NCBs perform in the course of its purchase for its purpose or on its own account or purchases for its committee? What was the balance of the debt buy-backs made by Nova Ljubljanska Banka amounting to $61.5 million in 1992 and 1993 through Microem, Proinvest and LDS New York? The answer to this question was given to me, but it has a confidential mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u102	Before I give my word to my colleague Péčet, just an explanation to my colleague Podobnik. Among others, he said that this discussion was not possible in the National Assembly. Mr Podobnik is well aware of the rules of procedure, and if the SLS Group so wished, it could only - in accordance with the Rules of Procedure - make such a proposal and meet the business conditions, and I would also place this on the agenda without any delay in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There'll be no misunderstanding between us. Now you have a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u103	If you gave Minister Rob another 10 minutes, he would probably convince us how important it was for Slovenian citizens and citizens that the Slovenian government bought the plane. About this was your answer about the importance of selling Slovenian banks to foreigners or donating Slovenian banks to foreigners. The price of 34% was approximately. 90 billion. Sanitation banks cost over 400 billion. Count it, drop the numbers anyway. That's right. Of course, you have to cover up your own incompetence. This is where we agree. On the other hand, you know, Mr. Parallel, I'm not reading you anything. You are a Member and Members, unfortunately, we have not had a chance to make that decision. However, they were given the opportunity to make decisions or decisions by a ministerial assembly. And among all the ministers, Slovenian ministers, there was no one who would object to the proposal of such a sale as was sold by Minister Tone Rop, so he sells to foreigners. And there's something else. I don't think the debate is meaningless. As you know, the Slovenian government is also preparing intensively and at a high rate for the sale of the New Maribor Bank. And that is why this debate makes sense, that we will not allow the Slovenian government to do so there, but that we will finally be committed to making privatisation as it should be. This is through law, this is transparent, this is with the possibility of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia getting their stakes back, as opposed to existing privatisation. You know, when Minister Robb talks about privatisation being in line with the law. Please! What marriage? The law on the implementation of the budget mentions the banks with one word. In 1994, the National Assembly said that a law on the privatisation of banks would be needed. I'm the one who specifically told you. We don't play with stuff we can blow with our hands. We play, regrettably, you are playing government representatives with one of the most important materials of Slovenian development, with Slovenian banking.Neither were you together enough to be in front of this national assembly, in which you have an absolute majority, which supports you in all, even if you made a proposal to have five new planes at this time, we would all support you from your government team or I apologize to your government members. No, Mr. Tone Rop. A law is needed where procedures will be transparent, where people will know what they will have and what they can expect. The privatisation you've made is unfortunately very bad for our country. It will have long-term consequences, but among these long-term consequences it will be mainly that Slovenia loses its sovereignty in the financial field. The financial area is also the basis of fiscal and economic policy. I sincerely hope that at least some Members have been encouraged to save at least what is left to do, this is the New Maribor Credit Bank and, to prevent, we all know about the plans of the Belgian KBC in two years' time. I think it's a two-year moratorium on buying a new stake. But then it'll be all their own. We must achieve that Slovenia will keep its banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u104	This was the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, a colleague of Dr. Bayuk will speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Last time, a few weeks ago, in this National Assembly, we heard the same words as we heard today from the Minister of Finance that the government is ready to debate, with concrete data in hand, with a concrete treaty, the National Assembly to inform how the whole process has been carried out and what is in this Treaty. Mr Minister said at the time, and today he also reiterated that this debate should take place within the framework of working bodies behind closed doors. I don't object, but I just expect this to happen once. Here we have such debates without real data in our hands, and it is partly to blame because it is promised and then it is not fulfilled. It does not come true, and this is a constant gap between the words and actions that we hear from the representatives of this government. As regards the privatisation of our banks, what is the position of the New Slovenia Group and the Slovenian Coalition, we have spoken several times in this National Assembly, so I would simply repeat the concept in my essence. It was possible to maintain ownership of both banks in Slovenian hands through a diversified ownership model, but there was no hearing for this proposal. There was no obedience from the government, there was no listening from representatives of other political parties when the social-democrats took over this model and also put it into this national assembly in the previous composition. However, I must also conclude that at the time, the predecessors, representatives of the Slovenian National Party, did not vote in favour of such a solution. Today we are sinking into the wrong dilemma, whether a foreigner or not, in some conversation that sounds like the 19th century and some strange nationalism that will not lead us anywhere. Already in this National Assembly, when the debate on national interests, so-called national interests, opened, I have also taken this position clearly, that there is no point in talking about national interests today and presenting them as an effort to prevent any foreigner from having access to this economy. However, the difference is that we should strive for as many Slovenian deadlines as possible in this Slovenian economy, and there is not enough hearing for this, because we still stick to the old patterns of thinking that push us into this concept, that it is only a national one that is in state hands. However, we have not yet been so mature and able to take this decisive step towards the establishment of a real market economy, which is based on confidence in the creativity of our own people. I always repeat that Slovenians are no less capable than our neighbours in the West or if we are going north. But that doesn't happen to us. And we're still sinking into these pointless debates, whether a foreigner or a foreigner. I cannot assess today whether it is a real sale, I do not know whether the percentage of the New Ljubljana Bank is to the detriment or well-being of the Slovenian state. But I don't have a negative opinion at the beginning that if a stranger bought it, it's bad in itself. I repeat, the essence of us to achieve the development of the economy we want is to start setting things up in a different way. To respect the creativity of our own people and to introduce into our banking a different business culture, such as the one that was expressed precisely in the position that Mr. President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank took up and is now re-elected for a further period, Mr. Marko Voljč, when he said in his presentation to the experts in Portorož that he had to invest and as a buyer of a bank outside our borders, namely in the former Yugoslavia - I have also asked the Prime Minister about this, and he agreed that this is a very risky business - yes, what is happening to us? If the State Representative says so, I have to invest elsewhere because I can't find the right business here. Isn't that the core to discuss wrong things? I would ask the government to reconsider its position on the model that we have already presented in the past, which has been the subject of a specific proposal from the Social Democratic Party in this National Assembly, because it is time that, as far as the New Bank of Maribor and the Postal Bank are concerned, I would add this, including the Postal Banks, to make such an institution that will really be able to support such a development of the economy that Slovenia has not yet known. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? On behalf of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, colleague Janez Janša, please [[five minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, members of the government! The debate that took place today on this parliamentary issue is talking about very important things, but however, Mr Pechet would be quoted as saying something that was still in force in the former country, and it is "late to come to Kosovo". Why? Because there was an opportunity in 1999 not only theoretical for the debate, but a real opportunity to decide that the decision adopted by the National Assembly in 1994 would actually be realised. We then tabled a law, mentioned earlier by colleague Bajuk, which took a decision from this closed meeting of the 1994 National Assembly, which did not specify exactly the final form of the ownership structure of the Ljubljana Bank, but which ensured the participation of taxpayers in privatisation and which indicated some normal modern structure of the bank's ownership according to European models. When we voted in favour of this law - you can look at the copies - it voted in favour of this law, I think that 14 members of the Social Democratic Party present, none of the four members of the Slovenian National Party at the time voted in favour of this law - so that this cocking after the battle of me does not specifically change - and none of the 19 members of the Slovenian People's Party who proposed such a solution in 1994 voted in favour of this law, and none of the nine members of the Slovenian Christian Democrats voted in favour of this law at the time. If you count this, you get the majority. And if we really didn't change our minds, as some have argued here, I think that Mr Podobnik, then today this debate would not be because we would have a different solution. The government insisted on a projection, on some solutions that contradicted the decisions of the 1994 National Assembly because it had support because it was able to do so. Liberal democracy itself did not have this power, at least not in its previous mandate. This, I'm going to say, is the inspiration of some things that are holding, but after some real possibilities for them to come true, they are virtually gone because they have now gone through decision-making, negotiations with foreign creditors. Cases have received a certain international verification. Returning matters to the previous phase would probably bring no special benefit. In addition, the ownership structures of the two banks have changed over the past few years and without. So much for this buzzing down the creek. Otherwise, I agree with the content of these criticisms. The government here has not acted as it has promised and as the National Assembly has taken its decision in this Decision. In a way, in a very untransparent way, there is a story that concludes with a lot of work for law enforcement authorities, criminals, the police, the prosecution and the courts. We discussed this a lot in the previous term, and it probably doesn't make sense for me to repeat it now. There may be some, let's say, reserve options in banks that have not yet gone through some practical privatisation or where contracts have not yet been signed, where commitments have not been made. There are certain solutions here. However, there must, of course, be a political will to confront them. I'm in the way the government is now, I can't see. It also speaks against such solutions, of course, the Government's intention to withstand as much as possible from this privatisation to cover some of the old sins or loopholes in public finances that have occurred in the past. So much for that. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, I regret once again that this great commitment and willingness to take account of the 1994 decision of the General Assembly was not before us three years ago when we had before us a law implementing this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u108	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. Is there any other group that wishes to report its position to the government on the response to the Slovenian National Party Group's question? I guess not. Minister Rob asked me if he could get a word on it. I must explain to him that, in accordance with Article 29, it is not possible to give the floor for an additional explanation. All they have is qualified speakers, this is the proponent, the government for 15 minutes and the parliamentary group. Thus, the application of this Article has been terminated in accordance with the request of the Slovenian National Party Member Group. We will continue with the questions of colleagues and colleagues to ministers and ministers in the government. First he gets the word, fellow mags. Andrej Vizjak. You have 3 minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues and, of course, ladies and gentlemen of the ministers and representatives of the government. My question is addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It refers to an important area, which is the area of scholarship. The scholarship is certainly an important development project that represents a long-term investment in knowledge and contributes to making education more accessible to the wider generation of the coming generation. Therefore, the state of scholarship is more than worrying. We have only two instruments still alive. This is an instrument of the Republic grant, which is a pure social measure, and, of course, an instrument of Zois' scholarships, which is essentially a very opaque grant of scholarships to some talented students and students. A full-blown human resources scholarship, which was an important part of the Slovenian economy's human resources policy years ago and also in some ways enabled the wider community to have access to studies and education and, more importantly, access to traineeships and employment. The Slovenian government in this area for several years, if not a decade, has not introduced a system, has not introduced instruments, has not introduced mechanisms that would somehow systematically regulate and comprehensively regulate an area that would fully ensure that these things do not occur, that about 17 years ago we had about 40,000 human resources scholarships in Slovenia, today we have only 7,600 more. With these problems, I ask the representative of the Ministry of Labour: Why has the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, despite many and many promises made, not prepared comprehensive schemes for scholarship policies or scholarships, particularly with a focus on human resources scholarships in the Republic of Slovenia? Why is there also no incentive in terms of active employment policy and in terms of measures to encourage employers to opt for a larger number of scholarships and, of course, a human resources policy? When will we see in this national council a government proposal for a system law? It is true, however, that we Social Democrats have introduced a system law in this area years ago, which has also not yet been dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Will you answer, Madam Secretary of State? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u111	I will try to respond in part to this and we will also prepare a slightly more comprehensive written response. I have to say that during the period you're alerting us to, 15 or 20 years ago, we had a different system of scholarships. At the time, we had only human resources scholarships and virtually no state scholarships. From this period 10 years ago, when we came to another system, other relations, including other economic relations, it is very difficult for the State to prescribe measures for employers, or for employers to grant a scholarship. After all, human resources policy is what the government has no direct influence on. Employers act like they're looking for personnel, just like they're led by their economic reason. If the demand of educated people on the market is higher, of course they do not feel some great need to implement a scholarship policy themselves. Although I can point out the opposite, those companies that are successful who are capable are actually in their own development, as well as in the grant of human resources and investment, and they are still doing so. Just because there was a drop in staff scholarship, the government and the Ministry of Labour began to encourage the Republic's scholarships and about as long ago also those Zois scholarships, scholarships for the talented, where I must say that these criteria are not as transparent as Ambassador Vizjak wanted to say. I think the criteria are defined, transparent and that they are precisely the criteria for when someone can get such a scholarship that they are clear enough. As far as this is concerned, I think that state measures can go mainly to where they go. The possibilities of the country, including the budgetary incentives of the country, the incentives for employers also go in the direction of the first job seekers. In addition to scholarships, this is said to stimulate the employment of young people. For some time this was meant mainly by trainees in the new period, the first job seekers. Of course, it is also possible to think about tax reliefs or anything similar. There are other options. Like I said, that's a short answer. More in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u112	Complementary question. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u113	Thank you very much. There is, of course, a need to comment on some of the comments made by the Secretary of State. True, the state cannot prescribe measures and commit to a scholarship. However, it can lead to incentives for employers to do so and, above all, to do so in some areas in order to ensure that people are better educated and that more young job seekers are also employed and better educated. Surely the state cannot order this, but it can stimulate it. And that's the whole point of my question. However, I am very concerned about the answer, which is completely diametric to the many discussions we have already had on this subject, and also to the discussions with representatives from the tax area who have said that the neutrality of the tax, that we cannot have tax incentives for this, but that we will subsidise it. When we come up with subsidies, we hear that this needs to be settled with tax reliefs. This chaotic situation in this area is of great concern to me. More than necessary, this anomaly is said to be a decline in staff scholarships due to a change in the social system, the structure of the economy and, above all, the ad hoc policy of many smaller companies is only a little short-term. I think that the Republic of Slovenia can do something with its policy here. Finally, it should be pointed out that the funding for the scholarship has increased significantly in recent years, that more than 18 billion Slovenian Tolars have been distributed here, that these scholarships are primarily a social measure, as regards the non-transparentness of the award of Zois scholarships, and you are well aware that there are many subjective factors in awarding them, that is to say the assessment of competent experts, psychologists and so on. The State Secretary for Employment promises a system law. Here we see that the answer was somehow worse. We therefore expect, and here I would like to hear from a government representative: Will we and when will we see the government's system law in the field of scholarship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u114	Mrs. Belopavlovich, Secretary of State, would you like to complete your reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u115	If I promised you a more comprehensive response in writing, you'd get it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to my colleague Bojan Kontić, I would like to invite my colleagues and colleagues that if any of you wish to implement Article 29(1), this is to propose to the National Assembly that the answer to his question be made within 48 hours for such a proposal to be voted on by the State Assembly tomorrow at 10 a.m. In this way, colleagues and colleagues who are not present at the Chamber now have asked me, but they are preparing for tomorrow's meeting through their offices, not to be bound by the decisions of this afternoon's State Council on Conclusion. Therefore, I would suggest to my colleagues that if anyone wished to implement the first paragraph of Article 29, we will decide on this proposal at 10 a.m. tomorrow, so that questions and answers can run normally today. Next, I give my word to my colleague, Bojan Kontic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I refer the question to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of the Interior. With the Property Change Act - its subsequent changes did not change this - we received certificates from all of us who were citizens of the Republic of Slovenia on 5 December 1992. This did not exclude dual citizenship. So they were received by all, regardless of the place of permanent residence. I am aware that changes today are not possible that the process is so much finished. At the same time, however, there are many dissatisfied people because some did not know what to do with the servitics. Again, others who knew where to invest received most of the wishes of the rejected. They ended up in pids with no real property. Moreover, when they find that some of our citizens living abroad receive dividends from our successful companies, they develop a sense of fraud. I would like to know whether we have a review of the distribution of certificates outside the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, how many of them were there, both numerical and valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Who wants to answer that question? Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is impossible to answer this question at this time. Why? Many years ago, when these certificates were issued, based on the status of citizenship at that time, as defined by the law, of course, it will be necessary to obtain from the common records, but I think that most of these records are essentially from the Ministry of the Interior, because, on the basis of the nationality status at that point, a section of the state was created. Therefore, according to your question, we will link ourselves with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and we will prepare a written reply in which we will state all of this and also this data, how many Slovenians who had the status of Slovenian citizenship were actually arrested at the time and have already been abroad, according to our data. However, for those who have temporarily or definitively moved abroad after that date, we are not likely to have reliable data at this time. All of this will be checked in the relevant registers and we will provide you with a written report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary of State Concan. The Minister of the Interior wishes to complement the issue. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u121	In fact, all I would add is that the record of who was granted the property certificate at the time is likely to be available and, to the best of my knowledge, was specifically created by the Ministry of Economic Activities or the Ministry of then responsible for privatisation. And so, as has been said, after the status of acquired citizenship. This record, to whom the certificate has been granted, I believe it is available and is not disputed. A completely different question is where people who have obtained certificates or later shares live and whether they may not live in Slovenia or abroad. If they live abroad, of course there are no such records, unless they have previously carried out any status registration questions or procedures in Slovenia: if they have thus changed the state of citizenship, or if they have reached the end of citizenship or deleted from the citizens' book. In such cases, there is a record at the Ministry of the Interior. In all other cases, this is said about people who are Slovenian citizens but do not live in Slovenia, but it is very difficult to obtain information on this or not keep records of where people who are our citizens are moving or where they live. Unless they are deleted from the Register of Permanent Populations or in any way they change the civil status. As it was said, however, we will examine matters in detail and try to answer this question as effectively as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u122	Complementary questions to the government are raised by colleague Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u123	Another additional question: Are these dividends that Slovenian citizens who do not live in Slovenia are taxed with us?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u124	Please, Secretary of State, Mr. Koncan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Of course they're taxed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u126	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u127	The Income Act, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u128	With this we have exhausted the questions raised by colleague Kontic. The question to the government will now be raised by Comrade Kavtičnik. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u129	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, ministers, representatives of the government, colleague and colleagues. I'm going to ask the Minister of Culture, Mrs Andrei Richter. At its 5th regular meeting, held on 25.4.2001, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a proposal for a media law. The legislation adopted sets more acute conditions for local, regional, student programmes that want to gain the status of special importance. The law also provides in certain articles for privileges which the Ministry of Culture does not exercise despite the legal provision. I ask: why the Ministry of Culture has not yet defined the status of individual programmes of local, regional, student radio and television, although this is precisely why the fee for the dissemination of programme content as set out in Article 107 is dependent. The law provides that three per cent of the RTV contribution shall be allocated to the preparation of programme content for local, regional and student radio and television programmes. The legislator, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in the light of the exercise of the right to information and the strengthening of local democracy in this way wanted to directly realize the public interest of the State in this area. Dear Minister, to date, why have they not obtained a tolar of the legally determined three percent of the RTV contribution since the adoption of the law, local, regional and student programmes? Why have the criteria for defining and financing local, regional and student programmes not yet been established, as provided for in Article 82 of the Law? According to the law of the criterion, the Minister or the Ministry of Culture shall determine, at the proposal of the Broadcasting Council. Respectfully, does this mean that we are not all the same in the Republic of Slovenia before marriage? Can an individual ministry or minister decide for himself when and to what extent the law will be respected?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u130	Thank you very much, colleague Kavtičnik for the question. Madam Minister, Mrs. Richter, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u131	Thank you very much for your word. Dear Member, the honourable Members have been most warmly greeted. It's not been a year, and it'll be 14 days after the media bill was passed. I note that the law has been immediately judged by the Constitutional Court, and, as you know, we are still waiting for an answer to the question of the media law initiated by individual television stations. On the other hand, I am pleased to say that, 14 days ago, the government adopted both regulations under the Media Act and that, as the law also declares or commands, the Commission will also meet and, on the basis of regulations and criteria, will call both calls for proposals for both funds, which are also foreseen under the Media Act. We therefore expect that in the summer the whole matter will finally be revived, without any distinction, or the media law. All together, you will find everything on a regular basis, what is happening on our websites of the Ministry of Culture or in our regular meetings, which we have not least with the entire affected public. If I could have been exhausted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Comrade Kavtičnik wants to ask you some more questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u133	Thank you very much. You did not answer me why you did not design criteria or finance local, regional and student programmes. Nor did we answer the first question why the Ministry of Culture has not yet defined the status of individual local, regional and student programmes or television and radio broadcasters of particular importance to radio and television. I read that you have submitted to the government a regulation on the implementation of the regular annual invitation to tender as well as a second regulation. But that's not what I asked. I was wondering why you didn't stick to the law. Even if it went to the Constitutional Court, it is necessary to abide by the law we have adopted here in the National Assembly. Criteria and method of distribution of 3% RTV contributions. Please, if you can answer that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u134	Thank you very much. My colleague Kavtičnik insists that you complete your answer. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u135	I'm going to say again that all these criteria are ready for us and the criteria are also ready. However, the implementation of this can by no means live because we know that we have a constitutional conflict. The issues are prepared and both regulations, which also condition, set criteria and criteria, will now come through the call for proposals also to draw on funds. However, that we had difficulty in really needing at least six months, I will say that 11 months have come to this, and I can tell you - because of the staffing changes in our media and substitution department, not least the secretary for the media field. But I can give you even more details, explain and also give you a written answer, as well as the criteria and criteria for these special groups, as you would like not to negotiate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. I now give the floor to my colleague Maria Pozsonec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Good bye to all of you! I ask the Ministry of Environment and Space: Since when is a rubber incinerator in the yard of a factory of a private national interest? What does the change in the regulation on emissions of substances into the air from the waste incineration plant, adopted at the letter meeting of the Government on 18 June this year? Were the amendments adopted at this time due to the application given to the Ministry of the Environment and the area for obtaining a location permit for the establishment of facilities for the processing of specific waste in Lendava? Is the processing of specific waste in Lendava in the interest of the State? Is the adoption of amendments to the regulations the legal basis for setting up the incinerator and supporting the state of the project or the guardian of the state? Are you going to issue a location permit for the construction of an incinerator in Lendava because of material interests, even though you do not have the right parameters for environmental impact because such technology is not yet available in Slovenia? I think that 3,000 signatures collected by citizens are crucial, as is the unanimous decision of the Councilors of the Lenda municipality, clear enough to thank the local community for such a concern of the state and firmly say no. Understand that the surrounding area is already threatened enough because we already have one of the incinerators that we applauded in our naivety years ago, and now they have trouble breathing in the surrounding villages when the wind blows from that direction. The public is not aware of the quantities and which substances are present in the air and water, how many they are and how they affect our health. Air quality meters are installed all over Slovenia, except for us, where more and more chemical industries and hazardous substances are located. Not to talk about subterranean. In Benica, pollution exceeds the high limit value of 4.5 milligrams per centiliter atracin for the Slovenian situation, which is about 100 times more than allowed. What about ozone pollution in the ground air layer? More ozone is produced in places where thermal baths are located, and in industrial processes where waste materials are produced, and carbon hydrogens are produced, so that we do not talk about unscanned oil wells. There are more in Slovenia [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] permanent ozone measurement stations, except in Lendava. A very large contaminant is transit traffic. Every truck is already a small incinerator.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u138	Colleague of Pozson's Time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u139	So remember that Lendava is also in Slovenia and beyond Mure is also part of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u140	Thank you, colleague Poxon. Mr. Secretary. One question with six sub-questions. One question is you can only ask, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u141	Thank you very much, President. Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is well aware that every Slovenian place is in Slovenia and that, after all, all the acts in force, for example with regard to emissions of dangerous substances, are valid and must be valid everywhere in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Our acts allowing maximum emissions of harmful substances are, we can say, fully consistent with Europeans. In individual cases, they are even stricter, for example in radiation, as I answered the previous question I had at the previous meeting of the National Assembly a month ago. However, we have the same standard as I know that we are still adapting it or that it becomes identical to the European one next year, and this is in relation to the total authorised quantity of pesticides. In your parliamentary question, you also mentioned the high, allegedly high levels of pesticides in the groundwater around Lendava. The current maximum allowed value is also not much higher than the one that will apply after 1.1. I think the central part of your question was actually meant for an alleged incinerator or a newly planned incinerator in Lendava. First, let me say that the regulation amending the regulation on permitted air emissions from the combustion plants mentioned above has nothing to do with what was actually the essence of your question. There was only one editorial correction, which is considered waste or energy. To focus on the essence of your question. It's true, I got a petition, and I think it's even thousands of residents from around Lendava who are against the Lendava incinerator. However, there is currently no application at the Ministry of the Environment and Space for the issue of a location or building permit for any incinerator, especially in the vicinity of Lendava. In fact, this instant life is the only part, and you probably thought of this, Albin promotion from, I think, Miklavža in the Drava Field, and his owner is a Mr. Brancelj, who owns the premises within the Nafte Lendava complex, and wants to put pyrolysis there for the processing of waste rubber and waste oils. This company was requested by the Ministry to issue a location permit for such pyrolysis. When issuing an administrative act allowing the installation of this facility or such facilities, they must also provide a positive assessment of the environmental impact. This company submitted an environmental impact assessment and the Environment Agency, which considers this within the Ministry, found that the expected emission values were too high and therefore rejected. This environmental impact assessment has been identified as inappropriate. Therefore, it is not possible to conduct the further procedure for the issue of a location permit until this company has rectified or amended this environmental impact assessment. If it does not, of course, this application for a location permit will soon cease or become irrelevant. I can tell you so much about what I think was actually a central part of your question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u142	Were you satisfied with the answer, colleague of Possons?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u143	I will repeat my question every month until you also take into account the interest in human health in Lendava.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u144	We'll take that as a threat, colleague of the Possons. The next one has the word of colleague Janez Podobnik and 3 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u145	Thank you, President. And I repeat the question every eight months. Eight months ago, I asked the government a question about the Maritime Institute for Natural and Technical Sciences. This means that the question is intended for science and sport and youth and education if I went in the opposite order. This institute is two years old. I personally support his work in Primorska, and the economy supports him, as well as the fact that the Faculty of Science and Technology is expected to be able to live around this institute. It is a fact that projects financed by the Education, Science and Sports Department will be under way this month and that this institution is once again in a very difficult financial position. As it is said, when this happened last autumn, I answered with a question from the Member States and the Minister, Dr Lucija Chok, assured me that she would stand by and that the Institute would be able to function normally. So I ask: What will he do to ensure that this institute, which has well started, is able to continue its research work on basic and also applied research. This institute needs a research programme, which all public research institutions, such as this institute, have, at a pace, also passive funding, as it is professionally called or in jargon. This is an additional funding for the necessary administration, which the PINT, as it is called, has not yet had. As it is said, I hope that this time, too, Madam Minister, in accordance with her assurance that good research work on the coast is her special concern, will take into account my recommendation. And second question: What will the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport do to ensure the same support as other initiatives to set up new college programmes in the coast, including for the initiative created at this institute, when, together with the colleagues of other institutions, they set up a college for information technologies with the first computer and computer science programmes, with a focus on knowledge of nature, which will focus on students who want to become entrenched in the economy? Lack of space must not be the cause. The role for the new Faculty of Information Technology, prepared by Prof. Dr. Norma Mankoč Borštnik, in the world for higher education has been waiting for more than two years. I'm sure the university supports this kind of orientation for the coastal economy. Finally, I find from my discussions with some economists that they continue to be active supporters of such a college. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u146	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. The Secretary of State, Mr Herman Tomažič, will answer your question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u147	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Ambassador! The questions are addressed to two departments, the Science and Higher Education Department, in this Ministry. On their behalf, I can ensure that the answer is only in writing. At this point, the explanation would be inconclusive enough, so I will pass this on to the Minister as an urgent obligation to inform you in writing as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u148	Are you satisfied with the answer, Comrade Podobnik? [[Yeah.]] Thank you very much. Only Bevk will ask the government a question. Please, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u149	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! The need for secondary school in Illyrian Bistrica is a long - term desire or necessity. Illyrian Bistrica is the only major municipality in the country that has no secondary school. In neighbouring secondary schools, especially in Postojno and Sežana, more than 320 pupils drive daily. The municipality is demographically threatened, bordering with neighbouring Croatia, and the establishment of a secondary school or department of one of the secondary schools is essential for its further development. In the next school year, 35 students and 24 students would be enrolled in high school. If the secondary school were in the home, there would be an additional 40 students enrolled, which according to the standards is enough for three departments or sufficient conditions for a single secondary school. In addition, after a few years of decline, the number of births is increasing. The municipality has enough local students who could be involved in the pedagogical process. Many professors are already teaching in neighboring congregations and elsewhere. Spatial opportunities are also provided for start-up. In addition, one of the barracks could be renovated for the purposes of education. High school would be a big novelty for Illyrian Bistrica. You'd get a younger look. It would acquire new jobs, become a more lively intellectual centre, and thus gradually stop the flight of personnel. The Illyrian Bistrica would have gained new developmental momentum. I ask the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport: What are the options for establishing a secondary school in Illyrian Bistrica? I ask the Ministry of the Economy: When will the government address the revised long-term programme to prevent the consequences of mining in the Idri mercury mine for the period 2001-2006, adopted by the Mine Control Board in December 2001? The adoption of the programme is important because it also includes a mining damage recovery programme by 2010 and an environmental rehabilitation programme and improvement of health care for Idria miners and residents. In addition, I would like to appeal to the Government to adopt, as soon as possible after the adoption of the State budget for the current year, the future operational programmes for closing works in the mine for each year. This is necessary because of the smooth planning of closures and the call for a call for funds for so-called mining damage. I thank both representatives very much for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u150	Comrade Bevk, I must remind you, too, that the rules of procedure are in force to raise one question. You're the one who pawned the two. If the government answers only one question, I will allow it to be no more. But if the government wants to do it for both of us, they can do it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Only Bevk! The Ministry has already given an answer regarding the establishment of a secondary school in Illyrian Bistrica, which, as far as I know it, is negative. As with all other institutions of secondary schools, it is intended to meet the criteria which, in addition to the registration and the possibility of entry, also provide for the provision of personnel and spatial conditions. So far, the Ministry has no such assurances. Of course, the matter is not closed. As with all institutions of secondary schools in Slovenia, this process will continue until the final conclusion is reached whether Ilirska Bistrica meets the conditions for the establishment of a secondary school or not. So, it's not completely settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask an additional question, colleague Bevk? [[No, no, ……]] I suggest you answer the second question in writing, do you want an oral answer now? You want your lips. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Dear Member! I will answer the question briefly because it does not require a long answer. With regard to the revised program of closing down the mercury mine Idri. The programme shall be in the process of obtaining the consent of the relevant authorities and shall be forwarded to the Government as soon as possible. However, with regard to the adoption of operational annual closure programmes, we are working hard, and we have several closure mines so that they will be dealt with by the government as soon as possible after the adoption of the annual budget. Looks like we're gonna be on the move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by colleague Janez Drobnic. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u155	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I welcome the representatives, representatives, members and members of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to raise the question of a letter to Mr Dimovska, Minister for Labour. Since October 1999, the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund has been paying maintenance fees. The Fund has been set up to enter the post of those entitled to compensation to demand maintenance from those who do not wish to pay instead. From January 2000 to September 2001, the maintenance fund paid 420 million tolars. At the same time, however, he recovered from the bonds, i.e. those owed to pay only 24 million tolars, amounting to just over 5 percent. In fact, this fund is becoming kind of a cover-up to the taxpayers for maintenance payments. There are also rumours that some pledges and recipients quietly agree on such a way of working to gain unjustifiable benefits from the budget. I, of course, advocate that the Fund works and that we have it, but not in the way that this practice shows. I would like to ask: What are the reasons for such a low share of the funds recovered as I mentioned earlier, despite the fact that you have hired authorised lawyers for enforcement procedures? And the question is, how much money has been spent on enforcement procedures through authorized lawyers? Perhaps this number is even greater than the amount of compensation recovered?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u156	Thank you very much for your question, Comrade Petty Officer. Madam Secretary of State, Mrs Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The fact is that a relatively small percentage of the recovery from the maintenance fund is that these procedures are rather long-term. It is a matter of judicial proceedings, recovery goes through courts and that is why the maintenance fund was essentially set up to enter into that, at least minimal, social work, covering certain obligations or to enter into the recovery of maintenance instead of mothers in specific cases. Because these procedures were so long because they were expensive and usually because the mother’s plunder was relatively poor. How much money has been spent on authorized lawyers, I must say that I cannot say this moment. This information is available for the guarantee and maintenance fund and will be provided to you in writing. And once again, for the first time, sometimes the problem of quantification, given that sometimes it is also some of the participants who are not employed, where the problem is actually resources, you have nothing to do, I will say simply, "success" or what to recover from. Second of all, it's a slow trial.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u158	That's an extra question. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u159	Just when this fund was established, it was said that this fund and services would be very successful in recovering funds. Now, in fact, all Members and Members can ask themselves whether it is 5.7 per cent more than expected. Maybe it's even less than the mothers themselves recover. Of course, I can speculate, but the percentage is extremely low. At first, a promise was made. On the other hand, I deliberately asked the Minister this question. He is the President of the Supervisory Board and, as a person with such powers, is responsible for the operation of this Fund, for its successful work. Therefore, it is quite justified to criticise that it does not provide enough for the good work of this fund. But I don't know how he's aware of it. I just read those things in the annual report. I hope the minister read it, too. Otherwise, I strongly recommend that he read it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u161	In view of the fact that the President of the Management Board of this Fund has read this report, this report has been dealt with by the bodies of the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund. I'm telling you, we can give you some information. However, I think that one of the reasons was not just this, the success of the fund's recovery, but, above all, the important reason was to make it easier for mothers to get money or to provide social security for those families, those mothers and those children who have problems with it. Above all, this social moment was the reason why we formed this fund.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u162	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary of State. The next colleague to raise the issue to the government is a colleague of France Tsukati. You have your word and 3 minutes available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u163	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers and other representatives of the government! My question is addressed to Mr Health Minister, Prof. Dr. Dusan Kebra. It refers to 1.1 billion tolars allocated to the Clinical Center. This question has already been raised, but not by me. Mr Minister replied that these funds were allocated to the Clinical Centre on the basis of a new accounting model. Nowhere is it known that the new accounting model would have already been in place and the media has also summarized the opinion of the Minister several times, where it states that the new accounting model in hospitals should have been introduced in 2003 or perhaps later. The second question that is questionable by the allocation of 1.1 billion to the Clinical Centre is not only the ambiguity of the key assigned to it, but also the fact that 50 million claims to the Ministry of Health or the Minister of Health were written off in the course of last year or last year's funds at the Clinical Centre. These are claims made by the Clinical Centre to the Ministry relating to the provision of services for foreigners, refugees and so on. There seems to be some connection between these funds and here comes the next problem. The Minister, as the last in the chain responsible for the event concerning rilthropoietin, which is the unjustified prescription of medicines and the unjustifiable slaughter of hospitals in the means of compulsory health insurance and thus unjustified use of these funds, has reacted correctly and has also prevented this as the last person responsible for hospitals, but it seems that this write-off is the Ministry of Health claims, those funds which the Ministry of Health should have provided from the budget, linked in an unexpected manner and [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] awarded again from the means of compulsory health insurance to the Clinical Centre. I'd like to ask for an answer as to what's going on with this assumption.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u164	Thank you very much, mate Tucky. Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u165	Thank you, President. Ladies Members and Members of Parliament! The allocation of a billion million funds to the Clinic Centre last year was an arbitration decision. Arbitration, as the name itself says, is an arbitral event. However, in pre-arbitral proceedings, various arguments were, of course, invoked or presented, who among operators expected these funds to be more reasonable. And it is the lack of transparency in the financing of hospitals, which we have been showing for many years, that allows individual operators and each individual to ultimately point to the other with a finger. We want to lead to transparent financing, where the same activity will be carried out, by a future reform of funding, at least the same price. In a process of partnership negotiation, which sometimes takes place, such as the Member of the Council of the European Union, well known after six months or all of the year, and when the usual ways pass, arbitration took place in this case. The arbitration is governed by the principle of voting. Of course, there are still all sides with arguments. I would simply say that two of these partners, the Health Insurance and Ministry Department, voted in favour of such a distribution of funds, although I cannot go in detail right now because I do not have them in front of me, but I can understand them, and this is due to the generally known fact that the Clinical Center is not only a chronic loss, it could ultimately mean that it is the least effective water, but other arguments show that the financing process is coming to the so-called collection of cream, where difficult patients are gradually moving towards the highest level where all losses remain. In short, it was an arbitration. There are, of course, court complaints to this arbitration according to our judgment, but it is difficult to explain the arbitration differently than that, it was a judgment, a judgment. This arbitration also does not have a clear procedure for deciding on it. The new model, which has not really been in force or has only begun to be applied experimentally, was not the main element of the decision, but the argument was why some institutions are under-funded and some may even be relatively refinanced. It is clear that the write-off of the clinical centre's claims to the Ministry of Health does not in any way play a role in this. Of course, the Member is allowed to make such connections. What's going on is erythropoietin. I think that the Member has only used it as an example of an appropriate work, and I would take this opportunity to say that we have recently identified a number of signs in the area of public calls, that we think that we will probably already find ways to rationalise procedures in this area and that this erythropoietin will, in fact, only be an incentive for operators to behave more rationally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u166	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tuckyat, you want an additional question. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u167	The additional question also applies to the Minister. The negotiations for the 2002 general agreement, i.e. for this year, were concluded in December last year and also the so-called arbitration for this year was concluded in January 2002, but there are still no contracts because for several months, more than four months, the ministry has stalled, we do not know for what reasons. In any event, the decision of the government or the ministries was delayed, which of course is moving the contracts with the contractors, with the hospitals, into the autumn period, which further complicates the financing of health care. At the same time, on a proposal from the Ministry, the government decided to finance 50 million tolls of the institutes of medicine, transport and sport for the project of verification and identification of occupational diseases. Under the Health and Health Insurance Act, such a project should be financed by the Ministry of Health from the budget. Once again, there is a case where the Ministry is infested and the budget obligations are burdened at the expense of a mandatory health insurance, which is, of course, felt by patients directly on their shoulders by restricting the rights to health services and medicines. I'd like another comment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. I'm asking for this part of the answer, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The general agreement agreed by the government only in the last month has a very logical basis. We still think that some of the elements in it have not been finalized at the level of the negotiations between the partners. In particular, during the negotiation of the general agreement, she did not know, nor did the loss of the health insurance institution adequately anticipate. We still believe that the loss of a health insurance institution is partly due to some general provisions underestimated and we have been looking for a way to prevent an even greater loss this year due to the irrational increase in the programme and an even greater inequality in access to individual health services. Therefore, after a long consultation, we even booked some of the funds and put them back in the discussion for the partners to re-examine - it is about 3 billion - to re-examine what programmes have a priority this year and which they will have to leave due to the projected loss this year. As far as the specific question of medicine is concerned, I am holding back this answer, which I will give in writing. According to my knowledge, perhaps not precise, this proposal was agreed between the partners and copied from the list of the partnership agreement for additional funding. If it has been added separately, we will certainly explain it to you in writing, because I cannot answer this question definitively right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u170	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be raised by fellow Member Joseph Špindler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers and esteemed members of the government, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! The question is addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture. Does the Government really consider amending the content or date of the rules on veterinary health conditions for the production of foodstuffs of animal origin and the placing on the market for public consumption published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No 91, of 10.11.1999, which entered into force on 25.11.2000? If this had happened, chapter 7 of the EU-Republic negotiations would have been reopened. It would also eliminate the investment of those food establishments which respect the rules already adopted. I would like an answer in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u172	Thank you very much. In view of the question raised and the request for a written answer, we can say that this answer will follow. I give my word to the next person who will ask the question of the Member of Parliament, this is to my colleague Bogomir the grandson. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u173	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable members and members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to Mr Finance Minister Tonet Rope. In recent times, we have seen that the government has consistently rejected all proposals intended to reduce the rate of value added tax, both for children's clothing, nutrition and footwear. We are also witnessing that a proposal has already been tabled in this National Assembly to reduce some of the benefits of the Income Act, again for dependent family members, says children. However, the latest data published by the Statistical Office speak the opposite, it is said that the number of members in Slovenian households is declining. On the other hand, some organizations are allowed to convert and earn large sums into taxpayers’ accounts. These organisations are different forms. From private institutions, societies, to the Red Cross after all. One of the organisations that also converts large amounts of money is the collective author agency SAZAS, which has obtained concessions from the State or specifically the Office of Intellectual Property and thus obtained public powers in the field of copyright. For this work SAZAS receives a reward of up to 30 percent of the proceeds. Last year, this withdrawal amounted to almost a billion and a half Slovenian tolars. In particular, it is easy to calculate that SAZAS has almost two million euros of its own income left. Of course, this money collects with the costly support of a market inspection, says the country, and here the country is deprived of two million tolars. We have also seen in the media that relations between SAZAS and users of works of copyright are very poor. Weak already, even those smallest users, are said to be innkeepers, and even those of the largest media houses, do not pay the unreasonablely high levy charged by SAZAS and even predict the boycott of the payment of services charged by SAZAS. On the other hand, relations within SAZAS are not ideal and new collective author organisations are already forming, which also want to obtain concessions and thus, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] public powers if I can finish, for which they have been established and, of course, here users are rightly afraid that they will have to pay twice for the same thing. [[...]] [[...]] So, of course, I'm asking the Ministry: What will it do in this area to eliminate this unreasonable and harmful situation for taxpayers in the field of copyright?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u174	Thank you, Mr. Grandchild. I ask the Secretary of State, Mrs. Helena Kamnar, for an explanation or an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u175	Thank you very much. If I have correctly understood the Member of Parliament, the question is only, what will the Ministry of Finance do to ensure that the author's fees are properly taxed? [[No, no, ……]] Then I ask for further formulation of the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u176	Mr. Grandchild, please, if you'll elaborate on the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u177	Thank you. I made a longer introduction here on purpose. I would like to know: Why is it permitted for some organizations that are different that we have to earn a lot of money on a marriage basis? I believe that the country itself could implement these legal provisions and, of course, increase the revenues on the part of the State budget. However, I also listed the problems arising from both the operators and the users of these services. On the other hand, I mentioned problems. However, when we want to improve the quality of life of taxpayers, who will have to recover public debt and tighten the belt, we do not allow the reduction of certain value added tax rates, we reduce income relief in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u178	Thank you. If the question is now clear enough, please answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u179	Thank you very much. My answer will also be a little wider. So, value added tax and related reliefs. At the end of 1999, when the value added tax was applied, the Family Tax Act was amended immediately thereafter. This law has brought a new model of the child supplement. The latest novel, which was adopted last year, also brought new rights. Since the implementation of this law has been delayed, you may also have forgotten that the concept of the Family Benefits Act was a response to the revised value added tax system compared to the transport tax. The transport tax, of course, was based on different assumptions and contained many elements of social policy, which cannot contain value added tax anymore. As a result, social transfers have been increased. You will probably remember, about two and a half years ago, when a new child supplement was adopted, a progressive scale was installed. This is precisely why, if you go to see the documentation, you will see that it has been written that this is due to the change in the income law, where this progress will no longer be. In fact, there has been a substitution that progress has been introduced at the level of social transfers. In the case of taxes, however, we wanted to even the entire population of taxpayers and thus, in our understanding, also to implement the Constitutional Court's decision. In addition, an allowance for large families was introduced in exchange for special relief in the acquisition of cars. This means that tax legislation has been amended a little earlier, and there has been an adjustment in two stages to these changes - changes in family benefits have been adapted. The second concerns the taxation of individual organisations. All organisations, all types except public institutions, have taxed services at 20% tax rate. These organizations include the one you listed. In particular, I do not know the content of the problem related to the organisation you listed. We're going to study this and we're going to give you a written answer. I would just like to say that, in addition to the value added tax, which is charged at a uniform rate of tax for services of 20%, these organisations must also pay the tax of fees, and it is also taxed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u180	Thank you. The following question will be raised by colleague Franz Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u181	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u182	Yeah, I actually gave you two words. Mr. Kangler, I'm sorry. All colleagues and colleagues would like to ask a specific question within three minutes and to whom it is intended, so that the first three minutes are not stretched out and then require an additional question. Mr grandson, however, I will give you one more chance to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I did not ask an additional question before, but I merely explained further because the Madam Secretary of State obviously did not understand. Besides, I'm not happy with the answer because I didn't ask. But thank you for this area, for [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] . I asked – and now perhaps I will be more specific – this case of SAZAS: Why does the state allow money that could come into the Treasury to be left to some society? And this is about 2 million euros. Furthermore, we still do not have objective information on the tax administration's position on the legality of the value added tax in the transport of copyrighted fees. There is also no objective information on the audit of the business and tax review carried out by the tax administration in SAZAS and on the related problems which are now known to the public. The Constitutional Court also suspended the implementation of the media law a few days ago, which stipulated that the collective author agency had some kind of precondition and, of course, it was necessary to conclude a contract with it if you wanted to obtain some of the status conditions that the law allowed. So I'm interested in: How does the Ministry of Finance plan to address this situation, which is unacceptable, both for users of copyright and for taxpayers in general? This is about losing the taxpayer's money. But second of all, I just mentioned that we're squeezing somewhere and, on the other hand, we're letting big sums of money slip away from us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u184	Thank you very much. I will ask the Ministry of Finance, Mr Končan, for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'll answer very briefly. The Ministry of Finance is not authorised to provide data on specific tax procedures, so we will specifically ask the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare an answer, because it is the only one who can provide information on a particular matter. Then it will be explained exactly what, why, why not. But we can't answer right now, and we can't answer just press releases, because it's not said to be true. There have been some similar current cases. When we actually looked at the content, we saw that practically 98% of the content is completely different. By providing you with an answer, and before that, we will ask the tax administration to provide us with, I would say, such information on the specific subject of the tax review of SASAS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u186	Thank you very much. It is now the turn of Ambassador Franz Kangler. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u187	Thank you for your word. I will ask the Government or the Secretary-General of the Government. Although I am somewhat disappointed by the representatives of the government sitting here today, although they knew that the questions will be asked Thursday at 2 p.m. We have recently observed in the Finance Journal that business premises in Ljubljana amount to over €6,000 square meters. In other parts of Slovenia, the exact same business premises only reach the price of €1,200 or €1,300. We are witnessing an increase in centralization from day to day. When it seems to the Minister that some power plants should be merged into holding, despite the fact that we have collected 52 signatures of Members where this seat should be held, the government decides to take the decision that the holding company is established in Ljubljana, because the minister must attend this holding several times a week. After this event, the Prime Minister visited Maribor and Murska Sobota in connection with the Mura factory in Maribor and around the area. On 16.10., the Government adopted the following decision on this current issue. I quote him again, and I ask him again, even though I have asked the question before the last session, but I have not received a good enough answer. "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of all ministries to prepare concrete proposals by 12 November 2001 for the transfer of the seats of individual state institutions outside Ljubljana." I want to know: What ministries have implemented this decision that the government has adopted and what are those concrete proposals or those institutions that this government, which on the one hand centralises some institutions, will lead, individual state institutions outside Ljubljana? The fact is that we have statistics which are extensively monitored by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which show that some statistics concerning the decentralisation of certain demographic data do not change. On the contrary. On the contrary. Unemployment in some parts of Slovenia is not decreasing, the number of workers through public works is increasing, although the number of people living in a particular area is much smaller and far more laboured through public works than in some other parts of Slovenia. This government must take this problem seriously and implement this decision itself. I therefore ask the Secretary-General and the Government: What has been done in this area, and what are those institutions that are ready to move out of Ljubljana?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u188	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. I ask the Secretary-General of the Government to respond. Mr. Bandell, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u189	Thank you very much. Thank you for asking, too. Well, first of all, I must say that the government is not responsible to Parliament for the government's decisions, of course, but ministers are responsible to the government for decisions they are not making. But no matter what, of course, I have to say that this is an assignment. As has been said here repeatedly, a task that is one of the priorities of this government. The fact is that until now serious proposals allowing for a wider restructuring of the headquarters of state institutions simply could not be implemented. Besides, it's not such a simple project. However, I certainly think that the basis for this is being prepared, in particular with regard to the implementation of the newly adopted new Law on State Administration, which, of course, also requires substantial interventions into the organisational structure of the same administration and the associated para-national institutions. Within this issue, the government will certainly also propose or ensure the transfer of certain institutions to other places in Slovenia outside Ljubljana, as well as, of course, when it comes to establishing some new parastatal institutions established outside Ljubljana. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u190	Thank you, Mr. Bandell. An additional question, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u191	Yes, I hope that the representative of the government, the Secretary-General, was told when he said that the government was not responsible for Parliament's decisions. The government is responsible for the work of Parliament once after this constitution, honourable Mr Mirko Bandelj. I hope that you understand this damn well and I hope that you also understand my question, which you have not specifically answered. I'm asking you specifically on the basis of the conclusion. All ministries in this government had to make concrete proposals by 12 November 2001. I ask you to tell me in detail by the ministries: For example, what did Minister Kopač prepare as a proposal for the environment and space? For which institution will he, as minister, propose to the government to accept, move to Slovenia or to any other place outside Ljubljana? Which other ministers and, in particular, if you cannot answer me at any given time, please give me a written answer to this question and please give me detailed support with all the information given by each ministry in relation to the decision adopted on 16.10.2001 in writing. Sadly, however, the government, which commits itself in June, adopted a deadline until 12 November 2001, does not yet know what those institutions, such as the proposals, are, despite the fact that the deadline was only a month. And I think that ministers could have prepared this proposal a long time ago if it were the interest of those who should be aware that Slovenia is not only Ljubljana, that Slovenia is from the north to the south, from the east to the west, and that all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia deserve this attention, that they also receive an institution outside Ljubljana.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u192	Thank you, Mr. Kangler. You can answer now, or you can answer now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u193	I can answer the question within the Member State. First of all, I must say that, of course, nothing has been said to me, but I have not said anything here that the Member of Parliament has read to me. The fact is that the government answers to Parliament and in this regard also answers the question. However, it is not the Government responsible for Parliament or the Ministry that is not responsible for the implementation of the Government's decisions. And this is just a constitutional relationship within the power of every democratic state. It is a fact, and I have said this before, that the government as a whole is aware of the questions of the relocation of institutions or funds for the immigration of institutions, the headquarters of institutions throughout Slovenia. Although I must say that this is not a question of regionalisation, it is a matter of some purely different questions. I also tried to tell you when and how such an extremely difficult task can be accomplished, including a logistical and extremely difficult task. But at this point, of course, I cannot and I want to say that I am not obliged to answer the question of why and which ministries have failed to comply with the decision of the government, because this responsibility is imposed by the government to the ministries, but of course the government is responsible to Parliament for saying that one of the priority political tasks is also correctly carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u194	Thank you, Mr. Bandell. The next question will be asked by colleague Majda Zupan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u195	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, honourable ministers, distinguished representatives and representatives of the government, fellow Members and Members of Parliament, are already in quite a few rows. I would like to address the question to the Minister of Economy. Unfortunately, she is not here, but I would still ask a question, or I would first draw two cases, and then I would ask a question. First case. At the end of June last year, the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection proposed the abolition and repeal of the two 2000 decisions issued by the Ministry of Finance’s Budget Supervisory Service. As a result, the Consumer Protection Office was ordered to pay back to the budget inadvertently spent resources totalling 14 million, which it paid to consumers in 1997 and 1998 for the provision of counselling services. On 27 May this year, the Minister of the Economy signed the proposal to the Government for a declaration of nullity, and the Government also did so in its decision on the grounds that the decisions of the budgetary control service were issued in the administrative procedure in matters of jurisdiction, where material rules were misapplied. Second case. At the end of last year, the Director of the Office for Consumer Protection of the Republic of Slovenia concluded three works to print four publications with a company where her husband is a director, but she has no ownership. This company, however, is very closely linked to the company in which the director is the same gentleman, which is 100% owner at the same time. The internal audit requested by the Minister showed that the Director had not violated the law on public procurement. However, it was found that the code of conduct of public officials was not taken into account in the selection. That is why the Minister has proposed to the Director of the Office that she decide for herself whether she still enjoys the confidence of the public. In both cases, the same Minister and the same Director shall act. It appears that in the first case, the Consumer Protection Office will not have to pay back $14 million. Are the inspectors' decisions, the budget control services, just waving away? Who will propose the opening of an administrative dispute, or will the state just write off millions? And in the second case: Does the Minister, in view of what she has recommended to the Director of the Consumer Protection Office, consider it acceptable for her subordinates, including officials, to act ethically controversially and to make laws? Since the Minister is not present, I would like a written reply or perhaps from another representative of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u196	Thank you, Mrs. Zupanova. I ask the Secretary-General of the Government to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u197	Thank you very much. On the first question, however, I find it difficult to comment. The fact is that the government issued a decision in the administrative procedure because it had to issue it. The content is as you have already defined it. This Decision is, of course, subject to a judicial decision if it comes to it. Even though the question was not here, I don't know how the office could return - the office is one of the state authorities, how it could return to the budget the funds that were spent a few years ago. [[...]] The fact is that it has been established in this procedure that the Inspector has violated his powers and issued a decision that is null and void. If the court decides otherwise, it will be a matter of second judgment. With regard to the second question, I can say that whatever ethical rules are, of course, one of the key rules for working in each profession and also in the public administration, of course, this ethical rule is sometimes also subject to applicable rules. I don't want to go into this case because I don't know him enough. However, I can inform you that at today's meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, on a proposal from the Minister of Economy, dismissed the Director of the Consumer Protection Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u198	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. Mr Branko Kelemina's next. You have the floor for the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u199	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I would like to ask the Foreign Minister and the Government as a whole, if possible. And I'm asking: Can I get an answer to the question about how SOPS is being implemented? We know the difficulty of adopting this document and the big words on the unfathomable economic and economic impact for both countries, and especially for Slovenia. I'm asking: How is SOPS being implemented? What economic and economic effects were realised and recorded in Slovenia, of course from SOPS? In numbers, if possible. In fact, I would like to have a review of what effects have been recorded in this area or perhaps a comment on: Why do certain misunderstandings arise or even the non-fulfilment of this document? We know that there are many problems in this area, at different levels, and I am also interested in: How do these commissions work, and what results have they achieved, and how are these issues addressed? In short, I'd like to ask if I can get some answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u200	Thank you for asking. Who can answer on behalf of the Foreign Ministry? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u201	Thank you very much. I'll try to answer that. The SOPS, as you know, entered into force last September. On the basis of SOPS, a standing Mixed Commission has been established, which has met twice, in January 2002 in Mokricah and in March in Čakovac. The third meeting of the Permanent Mixed Commission is scheduled for 28 June in Piran. The Permanent Mixed Commission has several subcommissions: a subcommission for fisheries, a subcommission for documents. First of all, with regard to small-border agreements. According to SOPS, the 27 small-border agreements envisaged and a permanent mixed commission began to discuss the construction of small-border crossings, to examine the possibilities of building common small-border crossings, but no final solutions have yet been reached because the Croatian side has not yet made clear whether we will be going to build joint transitions. As regards the fishing portion of the agreement, this is governed by Article 49 of SOPS. Within the framework of the Permanent Mixed Commission, there is a special subcommittee for fisheries, which has also met several times. For the time being, it has discussed the issue of licences and has determined the fishing procedure itself on the basis of SOPS. Both sides have not yet agreed or the fisheries subcommittee has failed to agree on how this article will be implemented, especially around these permits, what will be written on the licences and how it will control the catch, as the Croatian side insists on catching Slovenian fishermen on their side or in this area being controlled at sea by fishermen bringing them into Umag to weigh what the Slovenian side opposes. And this will now be addressed by a permanent mixed commission, including next week. The official Croatian side accepts the full implementation of SOPS, and also insists on the Slovenian side that SOPS be fully implemented. Of course, there are problems with fishermen, Croatian fishermen who have a different view of this and who reject this Article 49 SOPS. But SOPS is valid in as long as it is fully valid, and this is the position of the Slovenian side and so far this was also the position of the Croatian side. Now, what concrete effects the SOPS implementation has had on a very small area: I think it is likely that it is too early to assess at this point, because, as I said, the permanent mixed commission takes effect in September and the Commission has started working in January this year and the first two meetings have been held primarily on arrangements, on organisation of work. So that only implementation is at the very beginning and probably has no effect yet. The effects will come by opening small border crossings and facilitating crossings for residents on both sides of the border. This sub-commission for permits or documents has also addressed agricultural inputs, the passage of agricultural inputs and similar matters, making life easier for the inhabitants on both sides of the border and will probably eventually have economic effects on the region on both sides. For the time being, it may still be difficult to assess. I don't know how pleased you are with this answer. But we can try something more concrete if you want, and we can try to answer it in writing. But so far, the situation is that the whole issue of SOPS, of course, falls under the problem with Croatia and is currently the biggest issue of fishing in the Gulf of Piran, and this is a matter that will also be addressed by the Permanent Mixed Commission next Thursday in Piran.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u202	Thanks for the answer. Mr. Kelemina, an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u203	Yeah, look. Thank you very much for your answer, of course, in the first place. But what bothers me is the euphoria we brought here in the National Assembly to accept this document. Indeed, there have been some 100,000 people on both sides who are eager to see this happen and so forth. Today, we see, for example, a small-scale pass and so on, there is no response. And then, as we expected, of course, and when we have been able to determine what this agreement will bring - then it will also follow if there is no mass exploitation of all these benefits and possibilities for the flow of goods, capital and so on, that there are no economic effects. They're just gone. And now I wonder what we should do on our part and on the part of the government to speed up, maybe encourage these people and revive all these expectations that have been expressed here so many times. I certainly wanted to know what was actually going on at sea with regard to fisheries and so on. And I would ask if you could give me a particular explanation in writing, if possible. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u204	Thank you for that additional question. Can you answer today, or will you do so in writing? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u205	We can also answer in writing, but I can also answer something today. About the little border crossings. I said, 27 small-border crossings are foreseen. The three are already envisaged and a permanent mixed commission will consider a programme to open these small border crossings next Thursday. However, this whole dynamic or economic cooperation depends on the opening of these border crossings. And this is in the priority of the work of the Permanent Mixed Commission, opening border crossings, so we hope that it will also be in the interest of the Croatian side, so we hope that the Commission will agree on a timetable for opening these small border crossings next Thursday. And first, of course, they will be opened where the location permits have already been obtained. With regard to fisheries, the Permanent Mixed Commission is currently dealing with those problems, issuing licences and controlling catches. The problem, Croatian fishermen insist that there remains a specific fishing law, the Croatian Fisheries Act and they do not recognise that this international agreement is above Croatian law. The international agreement shall always apply to nationals or to laws. This is the position of local fishermen, and this is not the position of the Croatian government. However, this will be considered next Thursday, also on this permanent mixed committee, in order to make it perfectly clear that Article 49, which regulates economic fishing in this area, is an integral part of SOPS, which is carried out as well as all other SOPS provisions. The SOPS shall be implemented fully, easily. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u206	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Žbogar, for the answers to the question. Igor Štemberger, a fellow Member of Parliament, will have the next question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. I'll refer to the question of my forerunner. I am also interested in the implementation of the Agreement on Border Transport and Cooperation with the Republic of Croatia. Eleven years after Slovenia and Croatia have established a national border, cross-border cooperation is, unfortunately, still a dead letter on paper. The inhabitants of border areas, which are 250,000 such citizens on our side of the border, are still waiting for SOPS implementation to finally begin to soften the Slovenian-Croatian border. Today, all border dwellers have from a small-border agreement is only a more or less unusable small-scale pass, and some more than 2,000 Slovenian tolars must be counted for it. The outstanding issues between countries should not affect the implementation of the already achieved and ratified Border Transport and Cooperation Agreement in both parliaments. So I'm asking: When can we expect this agreement to be fully implemented in the field? The issue is particularly topical in recent weeks, when international border crossings, particularly those leading towards the sea, such as Jelshana, have seen multi-kilometre columns of tourists, and the real tourist season has not actually started yet. I want to know: Will it be possible for at least the next two months, when we expect the biggest tourist rush, to cross the border with a small border crossing point at the future expected border crossings, even though it is clear to us that these crossings will not be established in such a short time? This would save at least a little time for the borderline population and at the same time burden international border crossings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u208	Thank you, Mr. Stemberger. The question is partly covered by the previous one and I would nevertheless ask the Secretary of State of Žbogar for an answer, in particular the part to which he has not yet been answered. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u209	I think I've answered that to a great extent before. So when will SOPS be fully implemented - SOPS is not such an agreement that can probably be implemented from today to tomorrow. This is the process of implementing such a complex agreement. Of course, for full implementation, as I said before, it is necessary to build all 27 small-border crossings and then it will be possible to carry out this transport, which is why the agreement has been concluded. So that, as I said, is the priority of the work of the Permanent Mixed Commission. Next Thursday, we hope that a timetable will be drawn up and that these passages will then be opened rapidly. In view of the crowding at the border crossing points, I would like to recall that the Ministers of the Interior of Croatia and Slovenia met last week, when one of them was also an agreement on the course or crossings of the state border during the tourist season and when they agreed on joint cooperation, coordination, information, so that the transition to international transitions would take place as soon as possible during the tourist season. With regard to the transition with small-scale cards across international crossings at this time, I cannot respond because I do not know, and I need to ask myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u210	Thanks for the answer. Do you have any further questions? [[No, no, ……]] Comrade Ivan Bozič, the next question sent is yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, ministers, secretaries and secretaries, colleagues and colleagues! Well, for colleagues and colleagues it's just that we have a recording and we can watch a lot of things in the hall, so we're not all present. But after one year, I repeat the same issue for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs as last May. The number of births of children in Slovenia fell again in last year. What are we gonna do? In the 2001 statistical review, I looked at and wrote this: "In 1997 18,165 children were born, the year after 17856, 1999 in 17.533, in 2000 18,180 and in 2001, last year, 17,477 or 703 less than a year ago." The average of the last five years is only 17,842 born children. This is more than 10,000 children less than 20 years ago. Really, what are we gonna do?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u212	Thank you, Mr. Christmas. Madam Secretary of State Natasha Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u213	So, the issue of nativity is, of course, one of the issues faced by a number of countries. Those who are socially weaker with too much birthrate. Those who are economically stronger and more developed are, in fact, less and less natural. So, of course, we also face this problem in Slovenia. In our country, I must say, several analyses have been done within the Ministry on the causes of the decline in birthrates in Slovenia, and we will inform you of the results of these analyses. I, too, promise a longer written answer to this subject. In addition, these analyses are in fact the basis for the preparation of a national programme, which would involve different structures in this country more broadly, not just our ministry. If you'll excuse me, maybe just a few words of what the Ministry has done so far. It was prepared and adopted, as you know, by the Parental Protection Act, by family benefits, where it is envisaged or where a legal allowance is provided for large families. Compared to other countries, we have a fairly well-ordered parental leave, including a new right to paternity leave. Parenthood is taken into account in the rules on pension and disability insurance, at retirement age, when the necessary age is reduced as a condition for retirement. One day of annual leave is provided for in the new Labour Relations Act for each parent, for each child up to the age of 15. The scholarship policy is one part, of course, that also helps to resolve part of these economic issues, especially when it comes to encouraging or training, education for children who could not otherwise be trained. In short, tax reliefs may be one of the things I haven't pointed out, or they don't belong within the Ministry of Labour, but they also try to stimulate or do something. A number of measures have already been taken. I say they're actually analyzing the whole issue because obviously it's not just those economic stimulations - if it were what it is, then in fact in countries where they are better placed or where the economic situation is better, they would have more children, but it looks like there are other psychological, sociological movements. So these things are being studied. As promised, we will also provide you with more information.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u214	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. My friend Christmas is going to ask me another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u215	No, there will be no further question, just a little more explanation. Two years ago, we had a discussion about a brown bear here in Parliament, which lasted several hours. There were more than 70 bears shooting. Here we are for 700 less children quietly. Is my country Slovenia really becoming a beast paradise and very unpleasant for people?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u216	Thanks, buddy Christmas. I give my word to my next colleague, Sylvi Crnugelj, for her question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! Thank you for your word. Today, I would like to raise my question of departure or initiative to the Minister of Health, Dr Kebru. Because I know he was almost the last one here, I'm going to take a slow look at the initiative that we've already discussed. In fact, you probably know that in the hospital for obstetrics and gynaecology Kranj there have been activities and processes for planning a new haemodialysis centre for more than three years. A letter was signed on the intention of the participating three partners, namely General Hospital Jesenice, Hospital for Birth and Gynaecology in Kranj and the Health Services Company Podvinski MK. They agreed that Podvinski MK would rent premises at the Hospital for Birth and Gynaecology following a professionally proven project and appropriate renovation and dialysis equipment and employment of nurses. The area of rent within the free area in the semi-cursed free spaces of the former laundry and ironing room. They also agreed that the General Hospital Jesenice, which has dialysis facilities, a unified professional guide, helps, choose dialysis equipment and provide medical supervision. This new satellite dislocated unit of the General Hospital of Jesenice in Kranj would obtain patients on the basis of the redeployment of patients on chronic dialysis from SBJ, the Clinical Centre, the dialysis centre in Crnuc by regional key and also in view of the better accessibility of very needed services. According to the terms of the letter of intent SBJ, Podvinski MK is also to arrange financial cooperation on the basis of the contract and together with the supplier of the dialysis products. It was found that the project was formally viable for Slovenian dialysis and for the rationalisation of budgetary resources very interesting and useful. Three ministers at the Ministry of Health were also informed about this, and they also cooperated constantly in the drafting of the project. A painful and long-standing process of obtaining documentation began, not to list exactly all the protocols, what and how. Unfortunately, however, all the participants in the daily newspaper Delo learned on Wednesday, April 17, that a new dialysis centre, owned by Tiem, was operating in Naklem. This company has already established three dialysis centres in Slovenia, in Naklem, and that is the fourth in Gorenjska. With April, the SBJ, that's what the General Hospital of Jesenice said, lost about [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u218	Please, if you finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u219	A quarter of the dialysis program, according to a rough estimate, would be about 60 to 70 million a year. [[...]] I propose a few suggestions. One of these is that it would be good to define a network of dialysis centres in Slovenia. But I'm asking you: Do you intend to continue to work with these hospitals and to do something in this area, since all these new dialysis centers do not fully perform all the tasks in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u220	Thank you. You've extended it a little. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam Members for your question. Something general first. Dialysis is one of those services that we want to get as close to the patient as possible. In the extreme, of course in the most expensive variants patients have equipment in their home, so a little less expensive is such a dialysis center, close to the place, with a few dialysis places. Our dialysis in the public system has recently developed in large hospitals, which in some cases meant the patient’s trip to dialysis three times a week after 30, 40 km. That is why, or partly because of the fact that it proved to be a reduction in the price of dialysis, the dialysis activity of the private type, of course by concession and paid by the Health Insurance Office, was also allowed. In the case of the company you are appointing, this company has already received a so-called general concession for the whole country since one of the previous ministers in 1994. I agree, too, that in the past I have faced such financial indicators that the introduction of private dialysis centres in Slovenia has at least preserved or prevented the rise in dialysis prices. So this is where the concept is appropriate. In the case of Kranj or Nakleg, of course, according to my knowledge, the two initiators knew about each other. So it's not that one instigator in the daily newspaper found out about the other, but both of the initiators knew, it was clearly about the competition that carried the risk. None of these two instigators could have known how the one who would conclude the contract would decide. If I can give you the details now. The Center, you call it Tiem, I know it called Nephrodial - I think it's the same institution - is, of course, because it has a concession, it has only turned to the Ministry for inspection or verification of premises, and let me say that it does not yet have this verification. For verification he turned around, we requested some additions, no verification yet. We believe that there is no problem in not getting it because it is, after all, the owner and carries out activities at several other locations. Nevertheless, we are also surprised that the treaty with him has already been concluded; I am expressing this as a surprise, because we have not been informed of it. While public health institutions, the combination of the hospital Jesenice, the maternity centre Kranj and, if I am not mistaken, along with the Lek factory, of course they have been preparing this project for a relatively long time and I do not know what stage it is at. So my question to myself, or the attempt to stop me, is as follows. It is not clear what would have happened if, by chance, two centres in the same place had run for health insurance for the same patients. In this case, I can imagine that the price would be decided and that I would also decide on the question of who will take over the possible surplus, the proportion of health workers, for example, from the Dialysis Centre in Jesenica. Well, it didn't happen, so I'm also encouraged by your question, and I'm going to check into why the contract came before the work permit was issued. Otherwise, I do not have an answer, which I would say, if we have two competitors, public or private, with a concession, which we claim is therefore in the public network, that one of these two should necessarily have priority. In the end, patients who are selected and selected as health insurance institutions for the contract will reply. But it is almost certain that we do not think that this will happen again in the future because it is a loss of money. If someone competes for a small number of patients in the same place, there is no doubt that one of the competitors made a poor choice and planned poorly. It is difficult, however, for the State or the public to take responsibility for a risky or insufficiently weighed decision, in this case one or the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like another question? You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u223	It is well known to me that it is very important for dialysis patients to transfer services to almost home. I contributed and sought funds for a patient like that in Notranjska. However, you are well aware that those stable patients who need such care and can be attached to such centres are also those who are dependent and are not bound to bicarbonate haemodialysis and who need much more professional help, a lot of knowledge, a lot of technology and a whole team, not just one doctor. That is why I think it would also suggest thinking in this direction, to find out in some way what those points are in Slovenia, in a public or private network, with a concession and so on, and this network is also defined in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u224	Thank you. I'm asking for this part of the answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u225	Just a short delivery, and thus a confirmation that I agree with you. Regardless of what I said earlier, he is also concerned about the appropriate, professional distribution of the right dialysis centres of the nephrological clinic in Ljubljana or its dialysis center; he is entrusted with giving his opinion on what type of dialysis center K is that there would not be an excessive amount of simple, simpler centres and then the concentrations of the most difficult patients still in one place in the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u226	Thank you, Minister. Dr. Joseph Bernick, you have the following question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u227	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! My question is about the functioning of the rule of law. It is intended for the Minister of the Interior and perhaps for the Minister of Justice. This is what this is all about. The question is: What did the government do, or did, after last year's opening in the Slovenian Bistrica cemetery? This was made out of then, sort of nine months ago, a media event when Mr Pogorevc of the police, Madam Attorney General and Mr Pahor, President of the National Assembly, came together. Many words were spoken, very determined how the government would act, take all measures, and so on. In fact, today, after nine months, we don't even know where we are, we don't know anything in the media, we don't know anything. This is said to have been a media action and nothing more. Well, I'd like to know what was done at the time. Of course, I can't address this question to the state's attorney where it belongs. But perhaps you would ask the Minister to say more about this matter. I have recently read somewhere that this lady has visited the President of the National Assembly and has also presented a report on her work. Some statistics have been reported to the media, but nothing has been said in this regard. So I'm asking for an answer and a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u228	Thank you, Dr. Bernick. I ask the Minister of Justice, Mr Biszak, for your first answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u229	Dear Members and Members! Dear Member, Dr. Bernick! I could only say a few words about this particular case because it has been a while since I received a report on the measures taken in relation to this particular cemetery. Maybe a few general words first. The Government has identified itself or has made it very clear that it is necessary to ensure all that the competent authorities need in order for those graves to be properly explored. To this end, of course, we are also talking about appropriate exhumation measures, for all the investigations necessary in this regard, and so on. When it comes to graves in Slovenska Bistrica, there is also the issue of payment of all other works, i.e. those not directly related to the investigation in the sense of criminal proceedings. As far as I know, these funds have also been provided or are all indicative of, this is the responsibility of the other ministry to be adequately reimbursed. Now, what is the current state of the investigation, I could not tell you orally, but in this regard we can obtain a report from the State Prosecutor's Office, i.e. on the current state of affairs. But I wouldn't want to say in detail what was going on three months ago. The same applies to other graves. I can just say, according to the information I have on some other graves, there are still procedures in place to determine the number of victims, to determine, for example, the origin or identity of the victims, and, of course, to identify those who might know anything about the perpetrators in such a case. So, what's more, what's more specific about the current state of these investigations could be answered in writing. And if the Minister of the Interior is able to add something from his point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u230	Thank you, Minister Bizjak. Please have another word, Minister Bohinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u231	Thank you very much for that question. In fact, I can confirm what was said by a colleague of Bisak that, with the support of the government, a planned and organised investigation of this crime began decades ago. What the police are responsible for is investigating such crimes and conducting evidence procedures or procedures for the reconstruction of evidence in this regard. A specific project or special organisation of this criminal work is set up within the police. It is also not possible for me to give you a more concrete report on the outcome of these investigations at this time, but I think it is useful in this direction that, together with the State Prosecutor's Office, the police and the Prosecutor's Office cooperate closely in this regard, we prepare an interim report on what has been done, and we inform the National Assembly in a completely formal way that the National Assembly will not be informed of these issues only through the media.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u232	Thank you, Minister. An additional question, Mr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u233	That's all I'd say. Thank you for the general answers. I was wondering: What process is this investigation, where does it lead, and how far does it plan to go? But the other thing is, I'd like a confirmation that if anyone could give it to me, there's no need for the state's attorney to operate on it today, and all these people were civilians. This is all out of date and no specific measures are in fact necessary. I think this should be resolved, too, and I want to explain when you have them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u234	Thank you, Mr. Bernick. I'll give the floor to Minister Biszak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u235	All I can say is that, of course, in each individual case, it identifies the state prosecutor's office or any other body involved in this, which victims are involved. So there is no preconceived assumption that there are only civilians in a cemetery, but an integral part of this investigation is the finding of who is buried in a cemetery. Thus, of course, it also depends partly on what the procedure is. However, as far as possible, a comprehensive report would be prepared in writing, together with the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u236	Thanks for the answer. Mr Jože Tanko would be next, but he's not here, so I give my word to Alexander Merl. And this time he's gone. That's why I give my word to the last one, Ivan Mamić. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u237	Thank you very much. I have a question from Primorska or from the substation. The question for the Foreign Minister, personally, is now a shame that he is not, I don't know if anyone is replacing him or will read him from the tape, but I don't know, we're just talking about equal opportunities between women and men. I would say that we should also discuss equal opportunities on the questions sent. My parliamentary question concerns a very pressing problem facing the Slovenians in Italy, in place, on a daily basis. This June, Sorry, June 2001 the agreement between Slovenia and Italy expired to recognise driving licences. Therefore, citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in the Republic of Italy cannot replace Slovenian for Italian driving licence, but they must obtain Italian driving licence within six months of their application for permanent residence. This means that they have to take the driving test again, which causes most financial, time and language problems. I am aware that the Ministry is to initiate a procedure for the conclusion of an agreement in February 2002, which is to say, well after the expiry of the agreement. I want to know: Is that true, and why didn't the Ministry start this procedure earlier? When can we expect the problem of driving permits to be resolved? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u238	Thank you for asking. The Secretary of State, Mr Žbogar, will give an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u239	Thank you very much. The Foreign Ministry is aware of this problem and has started preparations for the extension of the agreement before the end of last June. It contacted the Italian side and proposed to extend the current agreement or to conclude a new agreement on the validity of driving licences even after June 2001. For a long time, the Italian side did not respond to the proposal and then replied and requested additional information. Now I don't really know what kind of things they've asked for. We've sent them this additional information. Just today, I was informed that the Italian side is requesting further information for the conclusion of this agreement, which our side will now send to our ministry as soon as possible. So why these congestions have occurred is entirely to blame, if I may say so, on the non-reactions to our initiatives on the Italian side. When this agreement is concluded, I cannot say. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is working to make this happen as soon as possible, and we are aware that this is a pressing problem mainly for the border population.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u240	Thanks for the answers. Mr. Mamić, would you like another question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u241	It's not a question, maybe an initiative. Give some kind of an E.R. because time is running out, and those who urgently need it need to be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-20-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u242	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, these were questions from Members and Members of Parliament. I'm closing the 1st item of the agenda. I thank all representatives of the Government for their cooperation. We will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with consideration of the 18th item of the agenda that we have started today. Thank you all for your cooperation and a nice greeting.
