ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u1	I begin the continuation of the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Silva Chernugelj, Anton Delak, Franz Kangler, Marko Diaci from 4 p.m., Rudolf Moge for the start of the session, Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Let's put the cards in! Look, please, if you've put your cards in, and let's press "quorum." 45. There's over 50 of us in the hall, so obviously we're not all ready to press the button yet. Ladies and gentlemen! We find presence in the hall next time! So another time, please! 62 Members and Members are present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited to attend today's meeting. I say hello to everyone who's here! Today's follow-up to the 14th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly will begin the hearing yesterday. Agenda items, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Composition of Agricultural Lands and the Lords of the Republic of Slovenia. Then we will move on to the third item, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Law on Public Roads and in order to move forward. Yesterday, we interrupted the debate or this point in the presentations of the parliamentary groups. These presentations were concluded. I do not have written applications for the debate, so I will have to limit all further debaters to 5 minutes. Does anyone want to discuss the marriage proposal in its entirety? For we are in the third reading and from now on there is an open debate on the marriage proposal in its entirety, not on amendments, not on individual details of the law, but on the law in its entirety. There's no debate. Yes, Mr Jerovšek and then Mr Sušnik. Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I was very surprised when, as a new recruit in this National Assembly, I accompanied the debate on the law that is now on the agenda. I must say that it was completely unclear to me how it could happen that on a proposal of law, which contained seven articles in the third reading, more than one hundred different amendments were tabled and withdrawn in the entire procedure that began on 10.10.1997. However, since I strongly believe that nothing happens by itself, I am also after the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which took place on 8 November 2001 in Kočev, where we received some more information about the essence of this law, and the essence of this law [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u3	Excuse me, Mr. Sušnik. Can I please have peace in the hall? Here you go, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u4	However, in my opinion and also the essence of the procedure is how to maintain uncontrolled exploitation, not to say anything more severe, state forests in the Republic of Slovenia. [[...]] That is so, all the parameters we have so far received by the members of the Committee and other Members also show. In particular, I would like to quote Mr Krajčič or Kreječič's remarks from the Chamber of Economics, which explicitly stated that, from 1994 to 2000, the scope of the concession fees or the extent to which the State was expected to survive from the state forests, or to the extent to which the same expert in the Chamber of Economic Affairs had fallen four times, stating that he did not see the real reason why this happened, since the buying-in price of wood did not fall at the same time or, according to him, the cost of harvesting this wood was drastically higher. I was then also served with data that about one million cut-off cubicles in 2000 had been cut out of all but 400 million concessions, which means, as I have already said, four times less than in 1994. When I heard that, it was practically clear to me then, and I'm here wondering what the Minister for Finance, who is ultimately responsible for the state treasury, feels this way. That the procedure itself, the way in which the law was adopted had a specific purpose, also shows that it was not previously included in the meeting of the National Assembly until all concession contracts were signed. With the signing of these concession contracts, all fourteen forest holdings have ensured this privilege, or this uncontrolled wealth at the expense of the management of state forests for the following period, I think it is somewhere in 2013 or even longer. There are also completely different data. According to some estimates - and I didn't invent these estimates, I have them written here - as a result, the country is reduced by 3.5 billion to 4 billion tolars every year due to the non-payment of concession fees - by 3.5 billion to 4 billion tolars! In particular, I have here information that in the largest forest economy as a d.o.o. or the successor to the former forest economy, today's d.o.o., was cut down in 2001 199,000 cubic metres of wood [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] that the costs were incurred - that a total of a billion 800 million had been incurred - that the costs had been incurred by 675 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u5	Time's up, so [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u6	Why? I didn't have five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u7	There is a limited debate for five minutes. I didn't have those applications to discuss, you know.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u8	I don't think I had-- did I have five minutes?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u9	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u10	Okay, well, if I did, then I'll check in with the replica. In fact, I just wanted to say that I will not support this law, simply not because no one can convince me not to tell you how clear this game is, which this forest economy is with the support of certain political parties - look who has tabled the most amendments, and you will see who these political parties are - go and play. In doing so, however, it is totally irrelevant that they have dedicated a few small things to local communities or promised ten years later to some farmer a hectare of forest to rent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u11	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, exactly five minutes. Then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I too have to respond to the changes or solutions that are now being introduced into this law, and I must say that I am surprised. After a long period of time, when we have already formulated in some way in the previous term what is in, I will say, the national interest in the exploitation of forests and in this Fund of Agricultural Lands, they are now coming into the law of solutions that are completely contrary to market logic, the logic of open competition, good management and so on. I must say that I am also surprised by yesterday's statement by Minister Booth that it is a 20-year concession for the rights acquired and that there is no other solution. In fact, I don't know if the Minister reads the Constitutional Court's rulings. I know that in this regard, the initiators in the Constitutional Court referred to the unconstitutionality of certain provisions in the law and relied on the support of the current constitution of the Constitutional Court, since the decisions were previously clear. However, by a decision of 13 December, the current composition of the Constitutional Court also rejected all the requests made by the initiators stating that the ninth paragraph of Article 17 was not in accordance with the Constitution and then the order and so on with regard to the calculation of the concession fees and so on. The Constitutional Court has given these changes to the law and it is a completely unacceptable solution and a feudal system in forest management is being introduced. On the basis of the feudal right acquired by forest economies in the majority, they will be able to carry out further feudal relations in this area. In view of the unacceptable things and the great harm done to the country, there are also some articles, my previous speaker said what damage is being done to the State. Contracts have been signed which do not have a basis which is contrary to natural law, which are constitutional solutions and so on. And look, what the minister said yesterday, in another decision of the Constitutional Court, I quote Work 5.1.2002, "the court annulled the decree," for example. The Constitutional Court found that the Trbovlje municipality with a 20 - year concession contract had been concluded [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] in violation of constitutional provisions. [[...]] On the contrary, it's the truth. This is a violation of constitutional provisions and a violation of the competition law and so on. A lot of laws. This provision will not be maintained and cannot be sustained. But it is a matter of great private interest. It's about corruption. And in this way this country cannot be prepared to give up state income in favour of illegal, illegal, illegal private earnings. [[...]] I would also like to reply here to my colleague Webro, who said yesterday that this is a solution that is now also for the protection of national interest. Just the opposite. Just the opposite. And Mr. Weber was being misdirected. Deep. They are now almost forest owners from forest holdings, but they are exceptions. I have to say, they're not all the same. Back then, I don't know, in 1989, they went with the help of foreigners, according to Marković's law, forests and agricultural land. This is exactly what you know that they had secured money from abroad to "fixy : fifthy" share Slovenian forests. It was blocked at the time. But now you have other ways. Here I agree with Mr Drnovsko that such under the terms "protectors of national interest" are not to be trusted, who have already gone to sell Slovenian forests to foreigners, in order to keep half of them to themselves. These today refer to national interests in this area. It's an attack on national interests. I claim that they know best how to control forests, those who live on something, I will end up in some territory. It is said that there should be free competition in this area. Here, however, abuse has been determined on the amortization age of permanent plants, which forests are not. The amortization period of forests was not until twenty years old, but it is completely different. For this reason, once again, I am surprised that the Minister, contrary to the previous Minister, Mr Smurf, has kneeled before the pressure of an elite capital elite. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u13	Thank you. So I'm really asking, why don't you take advantage of the opportunity you have to apply in writing for the debate. Then I have to interrupt and warn you, which is embarrassing to me, and probably to you. So I'm asking you to understand. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What Mr Weber said yesterday in Parliament from the United List of Social Democrats about the implementation of parliamentary groups not being replicated, and I also do not wish to replicate it, but I must say that what he calls Slovenian national interest cannot, of course, be. It is not Slovenia's national interest that billions of valuable concessions remain in the management of forest economies, which have privatised at this time, while high-rise farmers cannot reach Slovenian forests and manage Slovenian forests. If this were to be possible, of course I would agree that this is a Slovenian national interest, so that we can keep the Slovenian farmer on these high-mountain farms and thus help him when he enters the European Union. This will not result in farmers gaining this right until 2013 and, of course, by that year, many of these high-rise farms will also fail. I am sorry that there is no minister here today to answer some of the questions raised before we start discussing these amendments. The question should be answered whether what the Government is now proposing is in line with the European acquis. Then I want to know what's going on with what's written in the papers that the workers from the Ministry of Agriculture are also shareholders of forestry companies. When I mention it, somehow this one lies down, I would say a debate here in Parliament when we are talking to each other. I would like to know whether it is true that the people who grant and decide on this at the same time are shareholders and therefore grant these rights to themselves in the forestry sector. It is true that at this moment two extremely current areas, true forestry and hunting, remain in the hands of the former political elite, who make great profits from this. As said by colleague Sušnik, the Slovenian country does not get any practical or nothing from the management of the best Slovenian forests in the past. We, by this law or Parliament, have waited so long for this amendment of the law, have postponed the meeting from the beginning of this year to the signing of all concession contracts with forestry companies and we are now adopting a law to some existing state. And this is what some in this House call Slovenia's national interest. Dear fellow Members and Members. Once again, this cannot be a Slovenian national interest, that money is flowing into the pockets and bank accounts of certain individuals. I was also on tour in Kočev, where we were shown about the situation. But I'm sure we didn't see it there, and we didn't hear what we were supposed to hear. Experts in this area say that 400 million tolars, as far as all forestry companies pay concession fees to the State, are essential. [[I see. I will also conclude this short implementation.]] Once again, I would appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture to consider this proposal and its work as the responsible ministry in this government for agriculture. Slovenian forests should start to have a good place for Slovenian farmers, not to promise them only after 2013 – because it will be very late to change anything in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Rupar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! The debate led me to realize that in all those years since 1997, this law has not been made essential or that we have not reached the desired results and that the law introduced in October 1997 is obsolete and is not in fact acceptable. The simple findings that you have heard today may even be a short summary and some news. The call for concession is a necessary condition in the market economy in which Slovenia has stepped in with independence. Concessions that can be divided by law are no longer known anywhere in the world, otherwise it is not a concession, then we can call it a gift, a gift to some organizations that have once been called forest economies, which have become purely normal and ordinary d.o.o., an organization based on other laws. This, of course, is no longer the case for someone - that is, it is the property of a company and at the first moment at which someone could complain about the award of this concession, we can also find out by the Constitutional Court that such concessions fall and are the consequences of the wrong granting of concessions, which would also be the result of this law, so the consequences are financially and morally very large. I would like to point out that I absolutely do not agree with such a law that would allow individual organisations, regardless of their ownership structure, the granting of concessions for, I don't know, for example, knowledge or goodwill or maybe political affiliation, and thus, I will say, the profits that a lot of people see in their own pocket. Also in the area of the congregation and the "region", in the quotations from which I come, we see literal places, thefts of wood, timber from forests that are to be owned by the state. In the area of one municipality alone - and I will also tell you how - we have found that wood is cut, exported and sold under hand three times as much as it is reported to the Ministry or the agricultural land and forest fund. Three times as many as pass through the congregation, unknown to where, as reported and paid for by this concession. I'll just tell you why. In the municipality - for example, Tržič, I will just say, this is with us - they destroyed within six years the complete road infrastructure, which the municipality cares about, i.e. local roads. In repairing this, we came up with such high numbers as to settle the situation that the congregation could not. Now, of course, we wanted, with the possibilities offered by the laws, in the slogans, to "tax" and to get some of this transport of wood, we were in the Constitutional Court, for example, in the judgment, and because of the excessive sum, we were rejected and then reached a price that was in no way sustainable. Of course, in proof that we have the right for municipal roads to obtain from this mass part of the profit or part of the price, we have come to the conclusion that we have to count the number of trucks, find the tonnage that destroys these roads, and on this basis demand adequate compensation. We have come to this, even in cooperation with the fund, that wood has gone unknown three times as many as we have recorded. So there's some really weird stuff going on that I'm not talking about places. Last but not least, the conclusion that it is a private company, I'll say, a private company, d.o.o., which is due to the former forest economy. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] , last year recorded 110 million tolars of profits, the fund says it has a loss from this title, this company is talking about a profit that is not made from wood, the municipalities are in a negative state because they have to repair roads and train traffic for these same - a minute, Mr. Chairman, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u17	Sorry, a minute doesn't apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u18	Then I'll take the replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. They've got replicas, Mr. Potts. Was it, if I saw it right? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much. The views on forest management and management differ. Since I've been here for ten years in the National Assembly, I've been following them for ten years. I have no illusion that we will resolve them with today's debate, and I would not talk about it either. Neither would I talk about whether forest management is good today, correct, without mistakes. I believe there's no such thing. Just like yesterday, the day before yesterday was gone and I wouldn't have talked about it, either that it is, or that it isn't, even though it wouldn't have happened to me for the first time, that individual statements would have been without facts and arguments. Nevertheless, I would like to explain one thing that has been deliberately silenced by colleagues accompanying this debate for a long time. In particular, as regards concessions, the obligation to respect the Constitutional Court’s decision, the Constitutional Court’s decision U1-78/93 of 18.10.1995, which concluded, inter alia, that Article 17, first paragraph, of the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests, can and should be understood by the fact that the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia or the municipality is bound by the legal conditions set out in the Constitutional Court’s decision to conclude a lease or other corresponding contract with the current administrators and grant them a concession. This concession was fixed by law for a period of 20 years. This had to be done on the basis of the decision because the fact that this right was by a decision of the Constitutional Court, not at the will of any political party, was actually given to forestry companies. I think it's right to point that out, and not with the assumption that you will believe, because gentlemen believe in the decisions of the Constitutional Court when they answer you. When you don't, you say you don't have to respect them. But there is also this decision and I wanted to point out to it that we would not go back completely without having to go back to one debate that cannot give us a result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replicas now have Mr. Rupar, Tiny, Juice. So far, so much. Mr. Rupar, please. Then Mr. Weber. Excuse me. Here you go, Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u22	Okay. Thank you so much for the replica. Well, I absolutely reject that. It's not about concessions. Look, the forest holdings are gone. They're gone. However, it is a constitutional decision that you have read for the amount of the concession and for the concessionaires. These are essential differences. The proper procedure of this Government, the Fund and everything, if they had fair intentions, is to tender a concession. In Slovenia it is not only the former forest economies, but now the new d.o.o.s from this address are the only ones who can work with forests. They're not the only ones who can cut and care for new growth. You have a lot of agricultural forest organisations, which are extremely professional, that is, with professional staff, who would certainly contribute significantly higher resources to the state treasury for the logging of state forests and care and care of state forests, than former or, I will say, former forest economies and current d.o.o.-j. It is simply that from this wealth, the national wealth, at school we were taught about the great wealth that we have in the forests, that, if it is in its possession, the country should receive as much money as possible. In the law we have, however, there is too much suspicion that it is a completely different purpose and a continuation of established practice. What it is, but I've already told you in my debate. So that it is not a matter of pure accounts, that it is a matter of, excuse me, transporting the state treasury to the benefit of some private pockets, in which it drips a lot - much, I hope to argue and hope to prove it. It is also a matter of obtaining from the concessions, the amount of the concession, and from the municipalities their and the resources required and also eligible for the damage caused by the transport of this timber on municipal roads. It is simply a matter of wanting to have a law that would pour pure wine and, of course, bring an appropriate amount of money to those who are entitled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to replicate Mr. Potsch. Sam says that there are, of course, some problems and perhaps some abuses, if I have understood them correctly. Look, Mr Potts, my colleague, the system must be such that it prevents such abuses, not to encourage or enable them. Therefore, to eliminate conflicts of interest and, of course, to ensure equal access to concession services or the performance of the service, or as we call it, or to carry out certain matters which the State authorises to authorise the private person to do so. That is exactly what is constitutionally controversial and illegal. I did not see an invitation to tender for the implementation of these concession services for the award of the concession. This violated the basic principle of equal access to these services. This is constitutionally controversial but not only constitutionally controversial, this is also from the point of view of the functioning of the State, the economy, in the national interest to obtain adequate resources from these concession fees. This was also violated because there was no trace, no offer. That is why I would like to ask and receive a reply from the government authorities whether the invitation to tender has been made. Then I also want to know what's going on with these concession fees. Are they paying? Are forest economies paying? What happens if they don't pay, even what we believe is relatively modest and not connected and does not meet the criteria of equivalence between what you get and what you give. What tasks do forest economies have, in fact, appear in one and the same role as the buyer and as the seller? Next, probably in a few years, we'll meet up with a strange phenomenon. That these forest economies, which are now fully privatised companies, will also become owners of the manufacturing industry, probably also of some timber companies. If they rule well, I won't challenge them. However, this is likely to take place in a monopolization manner, from deforestation to cutting and so on. If this Slovenia needs anything, it needs a transparent market system. Why not give farmers in remote places, mountain farms, those who are qualified the opportunity to participate in this at least one segment. Just like in other countries. Why can't we do that? And maybe for a much higher price, the concession fee that forest economies now have. I do not deny that forest economies - I do not know what they are now called - are doing this business. If they are the most suitable bidder, if they are a good bidder, a good contractor, then I am in favour of doing all of these 14 for all we have. I don't object. But this must be done in accordance with legality, according to equality of opportunity. Just like that. If this is sufficient, then any suspicion will be erased and any suspicion will be erased if they create a greater accumulation, a greater gain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Now we have more replicas. I would somehow suggest that we give the floor to those who have applied in the first round. These are Mr. Sok and Mr. Weber. Then we would ask the Minister for answers because he has already asked for a word several times, and with your permission here after the first round of replicas, we would make it possible for the Minister to answer and perhaps reduce any replica then. Now it's Mr. Sok's turn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Potsch. Although he is a lawyer, he is much better acquainted with these matters, but the Constitutional Court has not yet been able to judge the time of the concession, because the time of the concession, 20 years, has not been changed. When the Land Fund Act was adopted in 1993, it was introduced into the law that forest economies were granted a 20-year concessional right. During the government of Dr Andrey Bajuk, Parliament adopted an amendment to this article and reduced this 20-year right to 10 years. This means that this right would expire in June 2003. When Parliament adopted this amendment, of course, concession contracts were not signed. This means that, in fact, formally, these concessions did not arise by law. Only when Parliament changes this period could the Constitutional Court decide on the legality of such a legal provision. However, what is mentioned by fellow Member Potrč, of course, relates to the constitutional assessment of whether the agricultural land fund can determine the terms of the concession, says the amount and other conditions when the concession fee is granted. Thus this matter, as interpreted by you, certainly, Mr Potsch, does not apply to this. However, it will be interesting to hear, of course, from the Minister, why they actually signed concession contracts this January and why the government waited so long to amend this law. These are billions of concessions without a call for tender, which is unacceptable and which is also recalled by the Commission of the European Union. I would also like to hear from the Minister how the European Commission will explain this, but the European Commission's 2001 report states that this law, as far as forestry is concerned, has been adequately amended and in line with the recommendations of the European Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. And Mr. Weber, and then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. I would like to try to explain or respond to incorrect data or at least to accusations against forest holdings that do not actually hold. The fact is, with state forests, the owners of a fund for agricultural land and not forest economies. Forest holdings shall carry out those works defined by the Forest Economic Plan for the forests of the Republic of Slovenia. It is therefore necessary to very clearly distinguish all the tasks of individual institutions in the forest. The fact is that the regulation you are mentioning, which is supposed to promote some market legality and so forth, has proven to increase the cost of forest management by 12%. The fact is that the moment you cut wood in the forest, it only costs you to sell this wood, it generates income that can cover both the work done in the forest and that charge that it later takes to the farm farm forest economy. So, it's not just about something being interfered with, it's also necessary to sell it on the market. And we must not forget that we are talking about 20% of state forests. 80% of them are privately owned. This is how the price-forming market in Slovenia works. It has been shown that the price of wood is fully consistent with trends in the European Union. Forest economies have been shown to reduce the cost of their operations. However, it remains unexplained why in Slovenia we are cutting just or even slightly less than 40% of the increase in wood. Less than 40% of the increase in wood is cut in Slovenia. Why? Here is the key to those problems when we ask ourselves why problems arise, why the fund does not have money and so on. Les, if you don't cut it in the right age, it's old, there's no price on the market. And it's just an extra cost, for which, in fact, on the market, you don't actually take anything or a very small share. The forestry economies are also under regular supervision, both of the agricultural land funds and of all tax inspections and of all the services ordered by the Fund and with a view to all books on forest management. This is a very transparent and clear business. But I wonder why, in 1993, when the forest law was changed, the marking of the wood, both the stump in the forest and the logs on the road, was abandoned. This was indicated until 1993; these designations are no longer required after 1993. And of course there are also places in both state and private forests, because there is no control over which wood is loaded onto a truck, which then leads such wood forward, into processing or directly into sales or even exports. This is a number of problems that we are, of course, reminding us of, and we want to address them right through changes in the law. Nor is it true that farmers in highlands could not obtain state forests in management or use. These changes to the law that we introduce and propose as the United List make it possible for high-level farmers to do so. Thus, the claims you are making are not accurate and I would like you not to repeat them again. With regard to concession fees, which are supposed to be smaller, the answer is precisely because deforestation and forest management are clearly inadequate, and the responsibility for this is primarily in line with and at the forest institution that prepares the harvest-harvest plans. This is the basis on which the forest economy or anyone else goes into the forest and cuts it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. I now give my word to the Minister. I ask for answers to the many questions raised in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Most of these issues today and yesterday essentially revolved around the issue of concession contracts, a 20-year concession period based on the law itself. This marriage has stood for several years. And in any case, it is necessary to decide on this law, because otherwise there is nothing further to be done in the future. Surely, there are some things that say in favour of a re-amendment of the law, which is not possible in the third reading, given the status of the second reading, to change everywhere where they want it, so as a minister, I am confident that this law will have to be amended very soon if we want some of the things that should be kept by the Fund actively in changing the land policy in the country of Slovenia. Now, first of all, for many of the so-disputed articles of the 20-year concession period based on the law itself. Firstly, this right was, on the basis of the political will of the Slovenian Parliament, in one way or another, put into law by amending the law in 1996. That was the decision then, and from that moment forward it was one part of the will to change it, by another part of the will not to change it. Here, of course, the basic problem arises, from which for so many years this law has been prepared in its amendments. In fact, the basic story is very equivalent and similar to the denationalisation law. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Slovenia, under the Constitution, it is not possible to interfere with the rights already acquired. This was made very clear by the legal services, including this national assembly and everyone else. So, as in the case of the denationalisation law, it is not possible to change the law backwards, as many have in recent years, with the aim of withdrawing some of the rights already acquired. Thus, the law on denationalisation is in force and must definitely be enforced. It is also equivalent in this law on the basis of the same Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia that it is impossible to interfere with the rights already acquired. So, already acquired justice means 20 years, if we like it or don't like it. It's not personal for me as the Minister, but it's a fact that needs to be accepted. Either kicking your head through a wall or accepting facts like that is equivalent to another law. This is the basic reason and the basic story and this needs to be bought. In the Republic of Slovenia, the right already acquired cannot be infringed on the basis of the Constitution. The 20-year concession contract, which the law has given, is a fact and, in essence, an infringement of the already acquired rights cannot be withdrawn. For a few more years, we can claim that it is different, and in the end, we will come to the same conclusion again. How meaningful this is, and how meaningless it is, how much this will possibly be in conflict with some other laws of the European Union, this is a matter that will bring time and entry into the European Union. That, I hope, is a clear enough answer to that. Secondly, why concession contracts were concluded only in 2001 and some only at the beginning of January 2002. You know that concession regulations have been prepared on the basis of which concession contracts have to be concluded on the basis of law. These concession regulations have been appealed by forest economies as shareholders. I apologize, more specifically, they have given an initiative to assess the constitutionality of the three concession regulations. In September 2001, I apologize, the Constitutional Court found that the concession regulations were not in conflict, in violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, and were therefore the basis for the conclusion of concession contracts. I stress, based on the law, because that is the law adopted by this State Assembly at the time and at the time. And again, I am relying on the fact that, by interfering with the change in rights acquired, it cannot be changed. On the basis of this, such as the Denationalisation Act, it is equivalent, on the basis of this, the power was fully safeguarded, without any reservations to conclude concession contracts. And these concession contracts were concluded and today they are all concluded. In fact, we have been in some kind of unfair situation in the country for five years, when in fact we did not have concession contracts. Since we did not have any concession contracts, we also had no basis to recover the concessionaire's obligation to the concessionaire. That is why it has also been in one year for gentlemen, a situation in which the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests in this title has indeed made a loss. Certainly the fact that concession contracts are concluded means that these concession contracts also give an opportunity to withdraw concessions, which was not previously given if the elements of the concession contract are not respected. According to our assessment, in this case, if a person is deprived of the option or is deprived of the concession, he also loses the right to, on the basis of the law, the possibility given to conclude the concession contract. By concluding concession contracts, however, we have obtained some additional quality so that the basis of non-compliance with the concession can be withdrawn and the marriage option lost in itself. On the other hand, I would like to point out that it was previously mispronounced by Mr Drobnik that, during the time of the Bajuk government, the possibility of shortening the concession contract was adopted in the second reading. No, this was adopted and published in the Official Journal on 26 January 1999, after which this matter was not considered. Furthermore, it could provide some more basic information, which is also important for further consideration. In Slovenia we now have about 750 thousand hectares of private-owned forests and about 265,000 hectares of state-owned forests. By making it clear that the structure of the land is owned by the State, 400,000 hectares, of which 55,000 hectares are lost to the agricultural land leased, 265,000 hectares of the forest for which concession contracts are concluded and 81,000 hectares of the other land, which are either non-fertilised, water and the rest, which belongs to that category. The vast majority of forests are privately owned, including forests. Furthermore, the denationalisation process has already passed or will pass - in the forests a good half still has to pass - 167,000 hectares of forests into private ownership based on the denationalisation law. Well, most of it hasn't been completely settled. This will also reduce state land and thus give rise to a new fact, including for concessionaires who have concluded a concession contract with the State, and, of course, by returning after the denationalisation procedure, this is then changed. And then 126,000 hectares of agricultural land are in the process of denationalisation returned. By the way, the church's demands are significantly lower than those of others. The collective demands of the church - I am not talking about realized - amount to 35,000 hectares of all land between approximately 300,000 hectares, which are the subject of denationalisation. As a representative of the government and as a minister, I am obliged to state the facts as they are, also on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Maybe I'd like to add that. Indeed, according to experts in Slovenia, we cut too little or that the floor is basically too low. Due to a low level for private or state forests, following a study carried out, an important part of the ranges obtained from the cutting base is classified significantly less favourably or in the case of the leaves primarily achieve lower prices, since the part based on the underestimated floor is, of course, found in those inquality categories because it is cut too late. This is true for both of us, and especially for private forests; it also applies to state forests. If I have not answered any questions, I will be happy to continue the discussion later. I hope that I have made it clear that unfortunately the equivalence and status of interference or non-application of acquired rights in Slovenia applies equally to all laws relating to property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We now have on the list for replicas in order, Mr Potrč, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Bernik, Mr Sušnik and Mr Petan. That's how it goes now. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The reasons for the mandatory conclusion of the 20-year concession contracts on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court and the Constitution have been sufficiently clarified by the Minister and I will make myself known if anything else is to be explained, because now what he has said must be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Here I would first respond to Mr Potræ's claim in his previous speech that we are such on this side as we refer once to the decisions of the Constitutional Court as those to be respected, but if they do not suit us, we are against them. I have to say, to put it bluntly, this obvious is unhygienic. With all your attention, you have advocated the failure to comply with the Constitutional Decision on the matter of the Municipality of Koper and the failure to comply with the Constitutional Decision on the electoral system on that side. On the basis of this and of all the consequences for the Slovenian legal order, it is kind of political to cast such an impression on this party by misinterpreting the decision of the Constitutional Court. Politically, and you know why you're here with this kind of politics. But in Austria you have an artist, a very strong one, who relies on such behavior - Haider.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u35	Mr. Jerovšek! Please, let's stick to the darkness.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u36	All such behaviour goes to the detriment, but indeed, to the detriment of Slovenian national interests and those authentic ones, not those which Mr Weber here advocates, which are the interests of a narrow ideological group, and of course I understand that he defends the interests of such narrow groups at all times. Because it is known that, unfortunately, it is still necessary to say this, the forest economies in the previous system have been pushed in the role of the feudal gentleman and farmers, forest owners. And it is known which personnel focused primarily on forest management’s leading positions and that from these forest economies there was also funding for certain institutions in the previous system. I am afraid that such a defence of previous interests is also linked to the financing of certain political parties and theirs, such as electoral campaigns and so on. It is known that this decision, such as that of the Constitutional Court, has also adopted the view that the State with ownership of the works of forests has acquired all the property rights. And this is where the status of the forest holdings changed. And such a reference, as you have called yourself, is incorrect. In our previous term on the Committee on Agriculture, we had eminent legal experts interpreting the constitutional decision quite differently from you, Mr Potrč. I am also surprised that Mr Minister has accepted such an interpretation. At the same time, as I said, as the Constitutional Court ruled on a perfectly identical case, that the 20-year concession contract, that it violated constitutional provisions.I think you have a mayor there from this municipality or from somewhere near there, let him say. Second. Some questions must also be answered in this regard. However, I would also like to replicate Mr Weber's perfidial reference to change, I think, to the definition of wood labelling and that this is the reason for the theft of wood. Who's running these places? Who's in the Krakow Forest? Do you think they're farmers? I firmly believe that the only protector of the genuine authentic national interest is a solid farmer, including a forest master. He's been through the centuries and through the centuries and he's gone on. All the others, however, who today wave with such national interest, are in fact the lowest private, private interest, which is otherwise legitimate, with which you whistle and some, or those behind it, are quick to gloat at them, as soon as one tolar benefits them. [[Okay, time's up.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u37	Thank you. So, I'm warning you, I'll only allow a replica when it's really a replica. The debate is a debate, and the replica is a replica, so please, if you tell who you're replicating, we'll know exactly what's going on. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u38	Mr President, this is not a replica, but a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. But then I say goodbye, Mr. Bernick, because I've classified you as a replica. But it was at that very stage when all hands went up, so we're going to invite you to the debate immediately after the replica's done. Mr Sušnik, Mr Petan and Mr Sok also have replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will replicate to Mr Webr, on the part of his implementation when he spoke about the costs. I understand it, Mr Weber comes from an area of Slovenia where the management of state forests is entrusted to an enterprise that fully covers the largest part of the most economical state forests. And his effort to show the abnormally high cost of harvesting wood is also in the concept of the presentation that was given on 8 November, when this firm made an effort, probably they were able to prepare for several days to prepare for those dumps a less valuable wood or wood that they had presented to the parliamentary committee. On the other hand, it is also necessary to know that we have been able to see that the harvesting of wood in the area of this forest economy can, and last but not least, show data for 2001, which shows that in this area, more than 6,000 dollars, 6 thousand dollars from the cubicles, and in a mockery of all of this, 400 tolars have been paid to the country. According to the new concession contracts, it is now 800, which is still like stepping out of the rain under a drop. It is generally clear, generally known, that these same forest economies buy wood from private owners for 3,500 tolars on the stump and more. If this is paid to them, then perhaps we could work hard or the state should try and demand a decent compensation from that difference. See, in this concept we can also explain why only 42 percent of wood growth or ethane is cut in Slovenia. The explanation, I think, is very simple. Forest economies that cut and sell free wood or wood, for which they pay virtually nothing and do not have any "costs", are ruthlessly applying the price level in the country, and as a result, we can also consider that farmers as good masters are found in this bank only when they are paid, due to this unfair competition, due to the unrealistic pricing resulting from the fact that these forest economies that manage the best forests do not pay the full price of wood. No, they are not cutting at this point, part of the reason why they cut only 42 percent of the time, but also that, even repeatedly, this has been highlighted, is actually concealing the quantities cut in the state forests. Look what's left of the farmer. With this procedure, which is due to the monopoly these companies have, the farmer has been struck twice. First of all, he can't survive on wood as much as he can survive. As the owner of the cooperative, he is further disadvantaged because, as a rule, all forestry cooperatives as well as agricultural cooperatives are now in a very difficult position and, on the other hand, this farmer is left with no choice but to entrenched to these "green gentlemen", the unit, is doing the worst, hardest, most dangerous work for a miserable, miserable low payment in the harvest of this wood. As a rule, forest economies are applying extremely low prices for wood harvesting here; they are not alone; we have also seen that there are extremely few employees. This is ultimately due to what is happening in the area of the exploitation of state forests in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! I repeat to Minister and Mr. Weber. I was awkwardly surprised by the Minister's statement that so far there has been no concession for the exploitation of forests; of course, we know which areas, so that I do not lose my words. This raises the following question: How could they have cut in these forests? Or the other question: Why is it that someone, I don't care who or the minister or the government or any other authority, has not banned the cut? And after all this, I understand exactly how it can happen that someone, we don't know, comes in at night, makes a nuisance in a protected area. Yes, of course, because forest economies do not have concessions, but they are completely regularly in the woods. It is said that the hunt was now open and anyone could have torn it down. And now I can see why they can't find these people, because even if they were found, they couldn't be punished because no one had a concession. That's one thing. Second. When we talk about how much this annual growth is, the rate that is cut, whether it's 40 or 50 or 60 percent, in any case, all the data tells us that it's cut less than the annual increase. Maybe they're holding your data, but I'm not sure they're holding it. I would say that even though there were no concessions in these forests, other than private ones, there was no practical basis for slaughter or non-sect - that is to say, those who reported any slaughter were doing so out of good will. It is said that the vast majority was not reported at all and was black-cut. This could be the automatic conclusion from this, and that's how it happened. Now, if there were just so many percent of that, I can't say, but it was happening. As a result, such small statistical data on the cut in relation to annual growth. Next. Even where it was officially declared to be cutting, this was done in those areas that are more cost-effective, where forest roads are already regulated, where the approach is significantly easier. In those areas where the roads were not arranged, there really was no cutting or perhaps any other way and a living baptism did not know that anything was being done there. And here's to the end. If no concession was given, this is also said to be the concession obligations - I do not know how they could have been implemented at all. Or no one paid anything to intervene in these woods. What does this mean in view of the great delay in issuing concessions? Concession means money, money means charging a budget or just a certain fund for agriculture. This means that agriculture has been deprived of the concession due to the unallocated concession due to the unrecovered obligations of the concession. On this basis, forest roads could be built, forest roads maintained, because we know that it does not hold data that forest economies reduce costs if they reduce them, which means they do not support forest roads. In our area where I know him, this is happening. The roads that were built are not being restored from that source as they should be, but are, in fact, being used and, of course, corrupt. From this title there is no money for the reconstruction of these forest roads and in Slovenia forest roads are a very big problem, the country has not solved it yet. The fact that concessions were not granted or not as they were means that we have not received any financial resources to restore this. In the final stage of the development of agriculture, and if you want to, even for coordinated regional development, we have not collected the money, and on the other hand we are suing that there is no money for coherent regional development and that this regional development is the most affected where the least money is. This is what we say, we don't collect, we grant concessions in the meantime, and now we can find out that on the basis of this, everyone can cut. Now we have a lot more clarity and I would like, of course, not to be required, but I would also like to hear the reply of the government representative on what I have said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr Minister will reply immediately after the reply, there are two more, Mr Sok and Mr Weber, then again, Mr Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u44	Thank you very much. To the execution of the Minister. So, the minister found out in the introduction that the marriage had stood for years, but he didn't say why. So, these reasons here are now identified in the opposition, but it stood to gain economic benefits, and when this matter is distorted, now of course let it settle, but let it settle so that nothing changes. As for this third reading change, the law was introduced on 20 July 2000 and, if I know these hands correctly, the government of Dr. Andre Bajuk was in power in Slovenia at that time. In Article 4, the Government provides for a third reading to be replaced by "at least for a period of 20 years" by "for 10 years until the expiry of the transitional plan or at least for a period of up to 30.6.2001". So this was the text that the Government then sent to the National Assembly, and this text is accompanied by a declaration of compliance of the bill with the rules of the European Union. So it was possible at the time, now that there is another government, the second composition of the government, of course, is no longer possible and it is necessary to turn the matter back into 20 years. Of course, you are now, Mr. Minister, in a fall in position, because concession contracts are signed. They haven't been back then. Today, I believe that the Constitutional Court would decide as the true Member of the Potsch. However, so far it had not been decided because it had no basis for deciding on a ten - year or twenty - year lease. And you haven't answered anything yet. I asked earlier whether it really is true, what we can read in the media, that certain employees in the ministry are forest operators, because in this case they play a double role. On the one hand, we should advocate that the country survives from forests the most, and on the other hand they should advocate that companies generate profits, that they get something paid off from their shares. I would really like to ask you for this answer because the names of State secretaries and also some other employees in the Ministry of Agriculture are mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Weber. Please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u46	I have a replica of Mr. Sušnik, or even if I'm trying to supplement him somehow. I am certainly working to ensure that rural jobs are maintained. And if 500 jobs are involved, this is a very serious reason for these jobs to be kept. And if we look at all of Slovenia, there are 2,000 jobs, of which taxes, income are paid and, of course, in all of these companies, both doctors, masters, university-educated and, of course, secondary school workers and even workers as such. So it is an extremely well-organised company, which, of course, is trying to give employment opportunities also to those who receive the highest possible education in Slovenia and get a job in the countryside. Mr Sušnik knows that I will strive for this, whether it is in Kočev or it is in your place. Of course, I don't understand you so much that, in honor of the presentation, you took the wood out of the forests in the Kočevsko region and entered into the memory of others rather than that it was supposed to be bad wood. Mr. Sušnik, the poor wood is judged by the buyer. The buyer pays and sees if it's good wood, if it's bad wood. However, it is necessary to get the bad and the good out of the forest. But what you can do for him after that depends on the market or the buyer who buys such wood. And no matter what you saw at the time, this wood had to be sold, whether it was good or bad. But, of course, it brings less than good Why is it so, and I still argue that also Mr Minister confirmed that the wood that is cut is simply too old and grows too long in Slovenian forests to actually extract more from it. But I'm glad you found that harvesting wood is extremely easy after what you saw in Kočev. This means that we have truly top-notch experts and a well-equipped company that is extremely easy to do extremely hard work with. So that I am extremely satisfied on this side, but, of course, once again, I say out loud that forest economies, the cost of harvesting timber, precisely because of the highly developed technology and the high skills of workers and the education of these workers, have reduced the costs to a minimum possible. However, if someone does not cancel a certain amount of wood for cutting, and of course such a minimum of the minimum possible minimum that you can achieve with good technology, with good knowledge, it cannot actually produce the right results. However, the forestry sector, and especially in this company, has justified its role and excuses it today, and I am sure that in the future too. And if someone explains to me how it is possible to bring into the countryside an economic programme that has its own development department that will be able to hire highly educated people, I am immediately ready to talk about the fact that we are disbanding such companies. But as long as we do not have this answer in Slovenia, of course, I will always advocate that these companies remain, and not only at our end, but 14 companies in Slovenia that employ 2,000 people. And also the price of wood or what they are supposed to pay the fund reach on the market. It's not just that, and that's all I'm stressing again is that you cut something and sell it. You need to make a line in the woods where you reached. And this line costs money. And when you subtract these costs, of course, you get to that real price that the profession recognises, and this price is also, I repeat, also verified on the European market. So it's not about any deviation and the information you're giving is, of course, incorrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I can, in fact, report more or less on the facts and on what has been concluded in recent years in one way or another at different levels. So why, in the state forests, forest economies were still cutting wood, in their own words, given that they did not have concession contracts, it was a question. As a result of the Constitutional Court’s decision that these same forest economies could continue to operate on the same scale as before, they had the full right to do so in forest economies, on the basis of the law itself, the right to a concessional relationship arose and the concession contract was at the stage of the court’s conclusion. Therefore, since it was at the same time through the court in the process of concluding the concession contract and since it was concluded, on the basis of a decision of the Constitutional Court, that it could, nevertheless, continue to work on the same scale as before, it was carried out in the same way. And that's what I can say. And what was a fact. On the other hand, perhaps it was earlier that we and the Member of Parliament did not understand each other exactly. In the second reading in 1999, 20 years were deleted and replaced by 10 years. Thus, in 1999 it was published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in a second reading and this has been written down. However, the third reading proposal was first published in July 2000, which is definitely true, but there was no talk of a 10- or 20-year period since this was proposed in 1999 on a basic second reading. There have been some other proposals that have not been taken into account or that have come back to 20 years in particular, specifically at the request of the Secretariat for the legislation of the National Assembly for reasons of non-conformity with the Constitution. Last year, the fund invested about 300 million tolars in forest roads, documented. As for the other questions, please let me ask you a question, Mr State Secretary, who is more competent in these matters than I am. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u49	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I just want some replicas. It was mentioned earlier that the harvesting of wood in Kočevska was easy. I must say, this is the karst terrain, which is one of the most difficult, as far as wood is concerned. This is also why it is not possible to use so-called 'harvesters' used by the whole of Northern Europe, and therefore also in this sense Slovenia will not be able to compete in this area. In comparison, I would like to say that such an hour as is cut down in Kočevska, for which, I think they use about 150 workers, can be done somewhere in northern Europe where they use "harvesters", with three "harvesters" and possibly with fifteen workers. Then often the concession is mixed and the price of wood on the stump. We get the price of wood on the stake by subtracting the cost of harvesting and cutting, while we get the concession by deducting all investment costs from this price. These are investments in trains, investment in roads and investment in cultivation works. So sometimes it can happen that this concession is extremely low -- we talked about 800 tolars earlier -- but we have individual regions where it can even be negative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u51	I think there have been a few more questions, Mr Minister, to which we have not received an answer. Mr Sok asked twice about the shares that people were supposed to have. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I can't answer that. The only thing I've checked with the Ministry about my employees is one thing that really holds, is that the Secretary of State has submitted his certificate to the forest economy in which he was previously employed - yes. How controversial is that, judge for yourself. All those who have been or have been employed, if we had the opportunity, we have, as a rule, lodged our certificate with our company.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Now we have new replicas, and here is the list: Mrs Jerovšek, Sušnik and Petan. So, please, these are really replicas, not controversy, because it usually starts with a replica and continues with the controversy. So please, if we can follow the rules of procedure and they're really replicas. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. First of all, Mr Webra, who is politically capable of defending the privileges of some in this way, is committed to ensuring that companies, forestry and forestry, remain and protect many jobs. Such conduct is, of course, unacceptable. No one is against these companies, and these companies have the very best conditions to offer the best conditions for forest management on the invitation to tender, because they already have a tradition, they have all the equipment and could win on the invitation to tender, but the country will get something on this account. Those who are against this are against the privileges that are not in line with the market economy, and I have already stated several times, in a completely identical case, in another activity the court has annulled a 20-year concession. Why don't you tell the lawyers by chance, because this applies to some extent to us. This is why I strongly oppose such deception. However, in order to smell something very bad here, the last reason Mr State Secretary, who cheered as a civil servant, was a representative of the one who should provide the state's greatest income for these companies, which are concessionaires, cited a thousand reasons why it is impossible to achieve the great concession that these companies are suffering from. If government officials take such positions towards management as good masters, then the state is doomed to bankruptcy. Then the state is doomed to bankruptcy. After that performance, I can see why it was so. The Minister's reply on what the newspapers say, say, Finance, Thursday, February 7th was a drink. I don't think anyone bothered the certificate. Because of the certificate, none of us do. I don't know how to hire that company. Let them answer clearly and out loud whether they are important shareholders in these companies, because then their role in concluding such contracts is illegal. If we are Members of the national staff, we are incompatible with certain things, then such an undertaking should be classified where this dual role is not possible. Regrettably, it is now clear to me, or increasingly clear that it is acting against the interests of the State, that the Constitutional Court's decision is misinterpreted. Because I wonder how it is possible that, with this same ministry for four years, lawyers have argued on a case-by-case basis, they have obtained very substantive opinions, but today it is entirely different to state the rights they have acquired, if there is a constitutional court decision rejecting acquired rights in such a way, and where the Constitutional Court in a well-known decision says that this structure has changed, that the role of these companies has changed completely and the role of the State in relation to them, and that these companies should be misquoted by only one sentence "that they are not based on the implementation of a decision of the Constitutional Court when they require that the competent standard of the ninth paragraph of Article 17 of the Agricultural Land Compliance Act be assessed with the same rigour." And so on and so forth. I call on state officials to be in the role of defence and protection of state interests. It went to the whole other side and still advocates it. I also propose that this point be terminated, that appropriate answers be given, that the actual relevant decisions of the Constitutional Court be examined, including specific decisions, on 20-year concessions, and that we then continue on the basis of some substantive interpretations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u55	First of all, we will be Namreč, and I would like to warn you that we have two more discussions. [[...]] I would like to put your procedural proposal to the vote with your agreement, Mr Jerovšek, when the debate is concluded. Not before. By giving debaters an hour's time to come up with a word just to tell them what to do. It's about the procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u56	I agree that there are those who are now registered. But don't close the debate, because then it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u57	No, no. I told you. The debate is ongoing and I ask Mr Bernik and Mr Rokavac for a little more patience to bring these replicas to an end. And I also ask the debaters or those who use the replica to be rational as far as possible. Mr. Sušnik and then Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The replica relates to investments. This was mentioned earlier by both Mr Weber and Mr Secretary. Look, it's been said that because of the karst terrain in Kočevsko, it was the hardest to get them there. This simply denies the information we have and clearly shows that it is right in the area of the Kočevska remnant, that is, the harvest from the sold wood to the cubicle and deducting the costs, the largest. On average, for 2001 Slovenia is 4086 tolars, with this being the case for Kočevsko 6095 tolars and something else for the decimal. Now it's just technical investment. There was a lot of talk about technical investments. I would like to take back what Mr Dario Krajčič presented to us from the Chamber of Commerce on technical investments. It is clear from this that during the period when these companies paid four times the concession fee paid in 2000, more than 40 to 60 km of roads were made in the field of technical investment. Now, in the last period when they pay 4 times less, as a result of which they have so much more than the net balance remains, according to the data provided by forest economies, because the economic chamber below or this Mr Dario Krajčič, has only collected these data, surveys submitted by forest economies have built 2 kilometres of roads. These are statements, look at them in the literal record of this session or we had the opportunity to hear it down in Kočev and please don't let anyone tell me that I'm making things up. However, the amendments that bind the concessionaires to care for these forest roads, which are exclusively used by concessionaires and which outweigh the care and maintenance of these forest roads to local communities or a concessionary fund, are now under consideration. Look, if that's any logic, then I don't understand any more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I cannot answer, and it is not my fault that anything was concluded in 1996 in this national assembly. I ask the secretariat to explain why this concession period was necessary on the basis of all this, if my explanation is not sufficient. I say, however, that if it is that you as a state official are committed to respect for the law as it is, and that if it is one, denationalisation, that it applies to another, but if it is a sin, then I do not know how to act in the future. Because simply then, in some way, they pass through and disappear all such and different bases for evaluating your work if you want to do it responsibly. I can say that I do not own any shares in any forest economy, but almost no company, unfortunately, I am extremely poor in this area, in general. If my associates tell me like that, I'll just take it for granted. Please, then let them ask themselves otherwise about these matters, or I would ask if you could explain your permission, Mr President, this dilemma, which drags on all the time and which is a naked fact for me as a representative of the government - if so, it is so. But this does not mean that we have to conclude concession contracts on the basis of some demeaning profit, but on the basis of marketable prices. The concession contract itself is and must be drawn up in such a way that it is clearly stated and knows that it follows prices which depend on supply and demand and which could be achieved if it is possible to apply the principle of free tendering and awarding concessions on the basis of a call for tender already now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u61	Mr. Weber has the replica. After this replica, I am really asking that we go to these two debates; let's give our fellow Members the opportunity to talk about the law, and then we will see how and what to do. Please, colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u62	Well, I have a replica of Mr. Sušnik's performance. I must admit, Mr. Sušnik, you really don't understand. If you are talking about a good profit in Kočevský, then this is proof that it is a well-organised company, and it can only be commendable, but not bad, that it is a good profit. I don't really get along with your explanations. I'd be worried myself if I'd been picked up small on this difficult piece of work. You explain completely the opposite - a good profit, yes, that's the problem, that's problematic. So these things really don't work out for me. However, if you mention Mr Daria Krajčič's study, this study should be read in full. And if you read it in full, then you'll understand why there are fewer benefits in the woods. And if I read you just one piece of the extract that tells you that at 30% of the increase in the cut, the net yield increases by 65% - in Slovenia, the cut is 40% increase in wood. Why? We can ask ourselves again why. 30% increase in yield by 65%, and that's the money the state is supposed to get from the fund. So that your interpretation of Mr Daria Krajčič is not correct and other information must be read as well. I would also say from this study that forest workers, in addition to covering their needs, contribute to the state treasury also around 980,000 tolars per year, each worker. And it is very important to maintain 2,000 jobs, which also contribute to the state treasury through this tax legislation. This is a truly far-reaching forest management area, in these social forests, significantly better management than in all other 80% of the forests in the Republic of Slovenia. And that's what this study proves. So, really, I'm going to say it, it's not right, and please, if you don't repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u63	Thank you. A debate, Mr. Bernick. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now that I've had to wait so long, I almost forgot what I wanted to talk about. But I haven't forgotten the next one - I don't know much about agriculture, I admit that. And I admit I don't know much about many other things. But it's just that I only know a little bit about some things, at least I have a nose for it if it still works. Look, we're talking about a country that wants to go market economy. We have denationalization, we have privatisation and so on. Suddenly, we reach the agricultural area and there is no tendency in this direction. And I don't see any strategy leading to the restoration of our economy and the preservation of our agricultural economy, I mean. In the past, I think we will all agree, the socialist regime, if I use this kindest term for a regime that could be named under many other names, has caused enormous damage to our agriculture, has thus practically displaced the rural farmer. Well, what we see now is that, despite the absence of forest economies, we have the same mentality. This seems to be a socialisation of the economy, in the sense that socialisation is for some groups of people who have good lobbies, which are strong, etc., but before that it was a state. So socialisation is for the benefit of stakeholders and, of course, this is done under the pretext of these concessions. You know what, it reminds me the most about monopolizing an area of public life. I think it's embarrassing that our government, which is called the success story, is actually the first kind of adhocart, looking beyond what it does with this law. This is a major conflict of interest. I wonder how some interested group can be given a concession for 20 years. 20 years is an awful long time, and God knows what's going to happen at that time, and these people who have a 20-year concession have a guaranteed profit. Look. Here we would need another law, namely the law on conflicts of interest. I don't know if such a law exists for all civil servants or not, and for those who reflect on working with the state, but should have it. You're going to say what a conflict of interest, but I'm going to focus on that. In our public life, you will see at almost every step a conflict of interest, and no one is disturbed by it. Look, even in the Constitutional Commission, we've come to have a huge conflict of interest, and there's no lawyer, and neither one of them has the money to tell if it's a conflict interest, which is what we're doing. Not even the secretariat for the law is willing to write this or not to say it or anything. This is a conflict of interest. Here some lobbyists have won, and these lobbyists will hold for many years. Thank you very much. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. There's been a lot of talk about this marriage. It's got a five-year-old beard. However, I think that when we listen to this debate, it would be necessary to ask whether the state has an interest and is exercising its national interest or national interest in this law. According to my assessment, if we adopt both the amendment to Article 2 and the amendments to Article 5 and then the whole law will mean the adoption of such a law to abolish the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia. The Fund was probably established to manage all land owned by the Republic of Slovenia, agricultural land, forest and forest land. Of course, with the aim of accelerating the more favourable ownership structure of our farms. After a ten-year period, it can be found that, above all, it was due to a constant conflict of interests which had not already been clarified and allowed at the outset, a nail to the adoption of the first law in 1993 that the interests of individual lobbying remained in the law itself. And since these interests of individual lobbies remain within the law itself, including the provision that the law itself provides for concessional relations, gives the concession period to certain interests, I am sure that a key error has already been made. But now, if we are going to adopt an amendment to Article 2, which says that 30% of all inflows received by the Fund are returned to those areas of the municipalities where the fund is run and if we are going to accept the generous allocation of unwalled buildings to the municipalities in Article 5, then it is really necessary to ask ourselves whether we need this fund at all. Or maybe he'll fall apart on his own. He'll be gone. And Slovenia will not have any key institution that could care for the completion of a more favourable ownership structure. We know that we have already missed a great deal in this area. We've already missed a lot. Not to mention the outstanding issues concerning concessions under the law itself, the decisions of the Constitutional Court and so on. In my opinion, what Mr Jerovšek proposed would make the most sense. At this point, I think there are so many unresolved issues that there is no suitable basis for adopting such a law. It would therefore be most reasonable that, as long as these key issues are clarified and the key interests of the State in this law are not determined, this procedure will not continue. And to suspend the proceedings at this meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u67	Now, if I see it correctly, there are two replicas, Mr Trophynik and Mr Pukšič. No, Mr. Puksich has a debate. Okay. Mr. Trofenik, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. I've got to check in on my colleague's performance, although it's a little weird-looking. He stated two claims that need to be made more widely. He's got a problem with 30 percent rent. I don't plead this rent or return, but there's a problem somewhere else. The problem is that we do not have a law or a property tax. As soon as we had a real estate tax, there would be no reason for such a proposal or for such thinking, because, just as in Europe, agricultural land would be taxed in some appropriate way. The real estate tax, however, is generally the income of local communities, not the state, according to the European system. The second inaccuracies, the mixing of concepts, I think it has been two years since we passed the fund law and where this solution is envisaged for building land to be owned by local communities. Yes, the agricultural land fund was not set up to operate buildings because it is not agricultural land. We have to be honest when we're discussing this one way or another. I just wanted to warn you about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u69	Thank you. I think we have two replicas now. Mr. Weber first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u70	Part of this implementation has already been said by Mr Trofenik, and I would only continue in the part where we talk about a favourable ownership structure. Even after the new proposal for a law on space regulation, this responsibility will come to the congregations. Commision will be run by the congregations. And as long as the municipalities have the resources to do so, these procedures will run faster, faster and more effective than, say, this can be managed by a fund centrally organised from Ljubljana. Of course, so that the remainder of the funds remaining in the area where this income also arises is more than justifiable and is also justified and, of course, necessary because of the solutions that we already have in place in an extremely important space regulation law. The Fund, of course, as has been said, has not been established to have unwalled buildings in its management and management. So we can't talk about whether we define them as belonging to a congregation, who were formerly owned by society, or who are now state-owned, and who are defined as without foundation. So we're not interfering with any of the fund's rights. The Fund itself makes clear in the actions brought by the municipalities that it is not walled - up buildings. It itself states this, so it is entirely unjustifiable to claim that it can interfere with their continued existence. If I touch on the fact that this instant cuts 40 percent of what grows in our forests, a huge reserve of resources is still in normal management with Slovenian forests, which will bring the sum of more resources than it has received to date, and it will be able to lead its role perfectly and normally forward. However, the fact is that the Fund will cease to operate once denationalisation is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Pohorec, do you have a replica? Sorry, then it is Mr Juban, who has the replica, and then Mr Rokavec, who also reported the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much, Chairman. I have a replica of all the debaters who talk about the concessional relationship referred to in Article 4 of the Act and the importance of a solution that we will or will not vote on. It's whether it's a 10-year or a 20-year concession period. I'm saying at this point that it doesn't matter at all. I don't understand many things that my colleagues don't understand, that, say, 1993 -- I was among them -- made one mistake when we said 20 years and the story has been saved for nine years and it hasn't been solved. But we can simulate whether we now accept a solution that will be 20 years from 1993, whether it will be 10 years from now or 20 years from now, is irrelevant. The reason it's irrelevant. It probably doesn't matter that most of us won't be here in 10 years. It also does not matter that many people will be a member of the government at that time and will conclude concession contracts through the Agricultural Land Fund, this is irrelevant. However, it is important that probably all these companies, the 14 they are, will not be there again. During this time, so many things will change in the area of concession contracts for the exploitation of Slovenian forests that it does not matter at this time whether it is 10 or 20 years. I am among those who do not understand the decision of the Constitutional Court that the story that we introduced in 1993 is regarded as being transported to the end, to eternity, and it is impossible to change and that it is not possible to change the solution backwards. If we made a mistake that because it was 20 years old, nothing happened, from yesterday to today something was happening. It is incomprehensible that this cannot be changed. But now what's the point. I said it was 10 or 20 years, and everything else I said we could forget. What matters is what the content of the concession contracts will be and what the content of the government regulation will be, what we do not interfere with. We're not gonna make that decision. Of course, everything you've said to each other can be true. Whether the government will negotiate through concession contracts, that the cultivation works, the maintenance of forest infrastructure will be properly evaluated and that the price of wood will be properly evaluated and what difference will be made, we have no influence, and whether this will take place over a period of ten years or twenty years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. I'm afraid we're not gonna end this point today if it goes that way, not tomorrow. But I don't have any other business options, like I'm giving you the replicas. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u74	Thank you for your word. First of all, Comrade Trofenic. Indeed, the problem is this: with the amendment adopted to Article 2, we partially introduce any real estate tax only in the area of the lease of agricultural land and forests. I think it's a key problem, but it's actually a systemic unacceptable problem. And second of all, Comrade Webru. Yes, the municipalities will implement the land policy under the new land regulation law, but I do not know what means, because even the 30% of the funds that have been set up under the current law to change the destination of agricultural land will not be provided because the change in the purpose of the new law on land regulation does not include any change of destination. And this is another step towards further reducing the beneficial ownership structure in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u75	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Sok and then Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u76	So, to Mr Juban's debate, I have to say that I didn't really understand what he said and I don't know what he was going to say. However, I would say that we do not adopt this law for the sake of Members or for the sake of the government, the law is being passed for the sake of the Slovenian state, and it will also be 20 years from now - let us hope and God forbid that there will be another couple of hundred years - but I believe that in 20 years there will be no many of these forest companies, including many forests, these Cubans will no longer be restored because the forests are slowly. And what we're particularly concerned about is that there will be no more high-rise farmers. Once you lose people on these, I'd say, for farming heavy mountain areas, you'll never be able to get him to that area again. And that's the problem. The problem is, young people don't see the perspective and leave. Instead of these forests being managed by these high-mountain farmers to manage these forests rationally, we are doing what my fellow Member Dr. Bernik said - it is because of the interest of some of the strong lobbyists in this country that we agree to do so to these lobbying. And I don't believe that if this mistake was made in 1993, it couldn't be fixed. It was possible to correct it when concession contracts had not yet been signed; it could then be amended. But with the amendment of this law, it was waited so long that the contracts were signed, as the minister said - the last contracts were signed in January this year. And when the last contracts were signed, that's when this law came to the National Assembly to change. That's the problem. Thus, this National Assembly does not work in the interests of this country and forgive, honourable Members, this would be Slovenia's national interest. Working rationally in the interests of the state. However, it is not that the country gets nothing from the management of Slovenian forests, but on the other hand, some think about how to tax agricultural land in order to obtain enough money and so on. No, no, no. Here you have to pick it up, where it's created, and where it's holed up in a private pocket. It's probably going somewhere else. That's why you're taking such a strong stand that it stays the way it is. For forestry and clearly hunting in this country cannot be saved in some rational and acceptable way in the public interest. It must remain within the purview of the former continuity, which has constantly sought to have this area in some feudal relationship. That's what this is about, dear colleagues, and say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u77	Thank you. The current situation would be like that. We have three replicas. Mrs. Weber, Trofenick and Petty Officer. And at this point, Mr. Juban, that's four. Then we have a debate - gentlemen! Pukšič, Pohorec, Kramberger. Then we have Mr Jerovsk's procedural proposal to end the debate. This proposal was also supported by Mr Rokavec in his debate or by a replica, and I no longer remember exactly. I'm asking you, maybe we do -- because things aren't working out, they're not moving forward, we're spinning around, these replicas aren't helping to clarify, but things are repeating. I ask whether we should go to the vote on the procedural proposal to consider this. You can see for yourself that things revolve around one and the same thing all the time. Mr Kramberger, about what I just said.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I didn't want to come to any replicas on purpose, so I signed up for the debate. But I wanted to, in principle, support the idea of my colleague Jerovsk; that is, I want to say this. I was also a member of the Agriculture Committee in the previous term. We have already devoted nothing to this bill in the previous term. We had seven sessions in this term. There's been some coordination. We had a field meeting in Kočev. And after a great deal of suffering, we failed this law until the third reading. I can't say otherwise than lost. Some fellow Members also used strange words when they spoke to me, as did the chairman of the committee, why we do not bring these things to the end. Personally, I think this law has been proposed in order to get rid of concession contracts in order to sign with these economies. That's what happened. And all the other solutions that came in parallel, what we have today in these amendments, these solutions are not consistent. Mrs Ogrincheva is suffering when she wants to put things in perspective and, in fact, she, as well as us, does not do too well. Personally, I think that we should put an end to this procedure, reject this law, however procedurally possible, reject it, and make a decision to order the government and the ministry to prepare in accordance with all the dilemmas that are here, and in its implementation, the Minister said in the beginning that he himself plans that the law should be improved in some other segments. So let's do this. Since what my colleague Rokavec said, let us continue to coordinate, I will no longer coordinate matters on the committee. We've coordinated them, they're here, and let's make a decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u79	As for procedure or procedure, this is now the case. First of all, it is a warning to Mr Jerovšk, all those who support his procedural proposal: in order to break the point, as I have already told you, it is necessary after, I think, the second paragraph of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, the ten Members of the Group of Members, etc. So here we need a formal proposal and if such a proposal is to be made, I am obliged to put it to the vote. However, as for your proposal, Mr Kramberger, of course, the law can only be rejected in one way: by voting when we get to this point, but we have not yet come to this. So, please I would now Mr. Jerovšek, procedurally? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u80	Yes, according to my procedural proposal. I had previously agreed that the debate would take place and that all the applicants could participate in the debate, and I think that the debate itself, I agreed earlier, would not be a good idea to stop, and if the debate would then show, I might even withdraw the proposal for a suspension. Now a lot of debaters have been reported, and I think we're going to do this because I think the text of the law is going to be cleared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u81	If now your procedural proposal is somehow justified in this way - I have also said this before myself that I will let people say it to the end and then put it to the vote - then I ask only for short replicas so that we do not use the replicas now really for the sake of not knowing how long debates and, above all, not controversy, we will not allow it. In order of course, as previously foretold, Mrs. Weber, Trofenik, Petty Officer. Here you go, Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u82	A brief replica of Mr. Rokavac. The auction will be successful if the funds are provided by the municipality, the state and the fund, only then. This is also the purpose of this amendment for the municipality, which knows the situation on the ground, to adopt an appropriate document on the basis of which the commotion will be made. It is impossible to expect the Ljubljana fund to determine the interest throughout Slovenia as to how the Commission is supposed to run is impossible. This centralisation is the one that kills the solutions we need in the field today. The municipalities can ease this problem, and this amendment makes it possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr. Trophynik, Mr. Petty Officer, Mr. Juban. I've forgotten Mr. Juban before.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u84	Thank you, Chairman. I'd very much like to respect your desire to give up unnecessary replicas, but I'd just like to explain. I have not defined the value: whether the solution is good or not - those proposed - but I have pointed out the things that we should have before our eyes when the debate is on these, once that we do not have the property taxed, including agricultural and forest land, and secondly: a similar matter - and I am canceling further discussions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u86	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate Mr. Juban. In some things, I agree with you, but I do not agree that because a mistake has been made, we do not change it or that we do not fix it. I'm here to make this right. Look, this fourth article has an unusual dictatorship. It is unusual: concession for at least 20 years. As I know the nature of concession relations, how they work; in fact, there is a different normal period - until such a period. Because this means that a concession relationship can be established here for a thousand years. You know, this kind of feud cannot be allowed. We can't let this happen. In particular, if the nature of the social and economic system has changed during this period. So, on the one hand, the state, the city of the state, and on the other hand the nature of these operators. These contractors were previously in the so-called system of special social importance, but now they have become by nature market systems. It is true, however, that through the tender they acquired, through the concession, the nature of the public contractor. However, the nature of the public operator to be selected under market conditions through the tendering procedure. So, without the invitation to tender, this was also awarded. If the same ratio remained as at the end of that previous period, constitutional interpretation would also be fine. That's how you'd understand him. Now it's hard to understand. That's the nature of it. In particular, if these operators were selected without an invitation to tender when they became purely ordinary companies. I pointed out earlier that I do not object - or if a call comes through, through the selection of exactly these 14 performers and to cover them, it will be fine. If they prove to be appropriate and contracts will be concluded in the manner of the best bidder. Or some judgment that holds up economic accounts. Don't let what happened to Koto happen to us. The problem will arise again. So this provision for a period of at least 20 years is unacceptable to me. I would accept it for up to 20 years, with the State itself, in this case the Ministry or the government that decides on the concession relationship, assessing what is rational and wise. This, of course, also takes into account the possibility of concessional candidates. It's a five-ten-year decision. If there are some social turmoils, it is likely that it will be decided for a shorter period. Honey, if he doesn't know what he's gonna do with the cost of running these woods. This is some kind of natural thinking and understanding of the functioning of the state. It's farm logic - I didn't do it, I don't know where with the study It's simple farming logic. [[...]] And concession relations were emerging, they began to occur in the 20s and 30s of the previous century, especially in the French state - the withdrawal of the country from the market segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr Juban and then Mr Minister, and then the debates.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u88	My colleague Petty Officer actually helped me explain what I said was unclear in the Constitutional Court decision. I agree with you, and that is then the answer to my colleague Sok, who I wanted to replicate. If we had the opportunity to propose, I would immediately support - of course, I in one person - the possibility of re-signing for all forests owned by the State tomorrow the possibility of entering into concession contracts on a new basis, under the conditions for which we decide: either 10 or 20 years and, of course, beyond the terms of the regulation issued by the Government. And that they have the same possibilities of implementing companies, which are now, in the future, they will be fewer, probably specialised, some associations, whether they are cooperatives or businesses, and also farmers, under the conditions that we have already introduced here, but apparently they should be added to the criteria where the conditions or those 100 hectares are in particular production conditions. I'm on my own, and those of you who have been following my deliberations on the committee, I've stood up for this, for some inequity that's been going on for years. And I hope today to say out loud that the country should probably survive at least a billion or more - but it will. And here we are taking solutions, one and the other, and the next parliaments will once again change this and other laws. That's why I thought we'd be gone, but others would think differently. However, at this point there is certainly no other option than that it is in the government's hands to conclude this concession contract and to extract from these forests what can be done, because we all claim that these forests are very valuable, and suddenly we find that there is a wood cutting that is not worth anything. There's something else I wanted to say. All the time, I'm being accompanied by this weird feeling that there's never going to be a forest agency with its views, but it needs to know exactly where the truth is. And there are 800 people paid for this area, and we never know from them whether it's one side or the other, or by name, or by customer, or by whatever. And, of course, lastly - we obviously agree here, at least some - we will also see national interest in you, colleagues, at Articles 2 and 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u90	Thank you very much. This law has certainly been coordinated in the third reading text for at least the last year; I don't know how long it has been since I didn't take part in it because I was dealing with other things. And please, I think here, as far as the government is concerned, the matter is clear. Even if one way or another is taken into account, what is proposed as a solution is what, as I have already said five times today, was the result of a position based on different interpretations of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court, the position of the relevant authorised or opinion-making institutions, in what sense the Government or then Parliament may treat, in accordance with the Constitution, harmonised legislative texts. So, I'm sure we're not going to find anything new in the whole world if we're going to discuss this any more day because we're going to come to the same conclusion. Here is your opinion, the proposal is such as day, day; it solves or regulates things in the third reading, certainly does not set up some things that need to be regulated, for which a new amendment of the law will have to be prepared. However, as far as what Mr Weber proposes is concerned, as regards a certain relationship that should be allocated to municipalities in the revenue of the concession and which should remain in line, it is of course a matter which the government opposes, because it considers that each country is a fund that cannot in any way be dedicated solely to the needs of denationalisation but to the needs of land policy regulation. Such a fund is also needed by this country and this fund has to deal with comas, irrigation, all of these invetic interventions and must release the market for land, purchase and sale, otherwise this market in this area in Slovenia will continue. It is wrong to think that in Slovenia I do not know how terrible many state land in the area of forests. In Slovenia, in fact, national forests are generally less important than the vast majority of other countries in the European Union. There are certainly more in most of the European Union, including in Scandinavia, where the share of these forests is significantly higher, etc. In short, it is also the wrong idea that by means of an article that we absolutely support and support it, it is also possible to rent certain land even in a farmer's lease, that this means that all the forest will be distributed to farmers by 100 hectares to manage it - this is of course a very misleading opinion - but it must be given them the opportunity to make it possible for a better life. Because, of course, there is no such practice to share it with everyone, in fact, anywhere in any country. Really, please, let us decide here, this discussion is probably a rather lost discussion. My personal opinion is that we should have more markets and allow concessions to be awarded on the basis of tenders. If the law cannot fall into the acquired right, then it must be accepted or it must be determined that we will not have this area further regulated and that we will have: a little differently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I allow myself to say one word, which I think may be a little too much for someone; but you know, Mr Minister, no discussion in this National Assembly can be empty or lost or anything like that. And now there is a debate between Mrs Pukšič, Pohorec and Kramberger. Mr Kramberger cancels the debate. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. There were a lot of speeches and mostly speeches about forest work. Of course, this is not the only thing that the fund would have at its disposal, but - I don't have the data - it probably has at least so much agricultural land at its disposal and, in my opinion, even with much more work. So I'm going to say something myself about agricultural land. Even before it's purely substantive, there's something I'd like to say based on the course. Look, he's been down for five years, like someone said. This is a reflection of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to rural areas and in relation to agriculture. In my profound belief in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, there has never been a serious in-depth and genuine debate in this particular area. Therefore, all of this, all of which came to be, made one great, great shortening. And in the end, it is often true that it would be best if such a law were not actually there. I am deeply convinced that I hope to say that I know this area, that it would be significantly better for the fund to be executed in its nearly ten-year history [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u93	Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u94	has done a lot of work with regard to denationalisation procedures and that this has also been one of the Fund's primary tasks. [[...]] Following the conclusion of the denationalisation procedures to be completed this year, I believe it would be good to transform this fund into a transfer of all the land to the local communities under which implementation would be controlled over the management of this Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, we would ensure a uniform policy of the Republic of Slovenia to these lands, and we would certainly transfer them to the management of those lands where they are: from forests, agricultural land and, of course, so much more building land. To say whether it is a national interest or not would be in my opinion, if the law on the Fund were so written, he says: for the first time - national interest and for the second time - what is written in the law on coherent regional development. And, of course, those who fear that with this, even with the work of concessions, the work of rents and so on, some municipalities, because of this, call it 'enriched' or get some kind of source, some kind of inflow. Yes, today we know local communities that have 80 percent over their proper consumption. But that's another problem. This is a problem that we have been talking about in the previous term in this National Assembly for at least 3 years - the Financial Equalisation Act. But this is a problem with the Minister of Finance, who doesn't know it or the government doesn't want it to happen. Why don't we just leave this story alone. Therefore, at least the amendment to Article 2 which refers to the transfer of certain functions to the local community with that 30th part, the share of funds is slightly but very little developmental. A few developments will, of course, be adopted by the amendment to Article 5, which speaks of uncharted building sites. And we need to know that most of the land of the fund with which the fund is located, of course, which lies in the municipalities that have been created, clearly since 1994 forward in the countryside - [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] - and I will conclude immediately; - they had nothing to do with the spatial plan for building land, and now it is imperative that they do so in order to obtain this opportunity, because, of course, they will also have to do a lot in this area in relation to the complementary activities of these farmers in this area or in accordance with the law on coherent regional development and, of course, in this area, to remain populated at least to this extent, as is the case today, although we know that it is worse from year to year - for several reasons: from quality of life to unemployment, inability to work in this area and so on. And so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr Pohorec has another debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everyone. At this point, I would touch only one pressing problem; the farm and forest funds, its conduct in our area, where I live, in the border area. One of the tasks of this fund is certainly to have the masters of these lands. In our area, there are many lands where there is no land at all, and it is quite obvious whose land these are: state land, that is, owned by this fund, abandoned, grown and decayed and depreciated the simple landscape where these lands are located. On the contrary, a few meters across, there is a national border where the Austrian side shows a completely different light and attitude to these border areas. If we are talking so much about this border or this national interest, it is certainly one of these to keep a living limit, to keep the population at the border, and to keep the land in Slovenian ownership. Which will soon come the time when we will have to allow the purchase or purchase of land for foreigners. And this land, which was once in foreign ownership, where foreigners have always voted on it there at the border, will again be turned on to be picked up by foreigners and, when it is their property, will show a completely different picture, which today is owned by the Slovenian state, unfortunately, is not so. We have also recently had an interview with the Minister in the Šentilj municipality on these questions, and I expect that he will be able to give another answer in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u97	Thank you. We have thus concluded the debate and are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual amendments. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.12.2001 by replacing some of the amendments - or because you got on the table - with new ones. So, we have the material, please, if you'll be so kind as to pay attention. That's eight pages of material, 10.12.2001. Article 1(1) I am opening the debate on Article 1 and, of course, the amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment and on Article 1 and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 1. We're voting, please. Of the 57 present, 42 members and Members voted against 13. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 2(2) I am opening the debate on the three amendments to Articles 2 and 2. Who wants a word? Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u98	The amendment to Article 2 suggests that 30 per cent of compensation for leasing forests and funds generated by the fund by the sale of non-walled buildings remains in an area where this income also arises. [[...]] This is important because the municipal budget today pays for the maintenance of forest roads. No compensation shall be paid to municipalities for the use of the building’s land. The sale of unpaved buildings is a procedure that is not within the jurisdiction of the Agricultural Land Fund and does so. The fact is that the price of agricultural land is one euro, the price of unpaved building land in the countryside is 10 euros; therefore, the value of land is increased by 10 times and the value of the land does not even contribute to the value of the land. These are the reasons why part of the funds must remain in an area where this income is also generated. Of course, the income for building land, nearer to the larger cities, is so much higher for the fund; because the price in the city, Ljubljana, Maribor and the like, is 130 euros, and compared to one euro, which is supposed to belong, for example, in line, it is still a huge difference, even if 30% remains in the municipality and 70% remains in line. And if we add to this the fact that we have already made clear today that in the Slovenian forests we are cutting only 40% of the increase, the fund still has great opportunities and sufficient resources and ways to reach the amount of money it thinks it needs for its existence and to carry out its functions. The funds earmarked from this 30% - I ask, Mr Juban, are they in conflict with national interest, because I have wondered that they are being allocated to co-financing the professional grounds for protecting and regulating agricultural land and planning. Is it contrary to the national interest to co-finance the restoration of the Earth's cadastra? Is it contrary to the national interest to co-finance integrated rural development and to rebuild the village? Is there a contradiction to the support of co-natural farming? Is the measure, contrary to national interest, to preserve farms in areas with limited development potential? And is it contrary to the national interest to build local infrastructure? These are the tasks that municipalities are supposed to try to manage, implement, and I think that this is also the reason that the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia must be directed towards supporting agriculture, supporting forestry, promoting regional and municipal development and providing permanent protection of natural life. And if he does so in cooperation with the congregation, which he does not do today, because it is an exclusively centralised organization, he will inevitably be condemned sooner or later to failure. However, if this cooperation with the municipalities is established, we can talk about the promotion of regional development, the resolution of the key problems that we are solving for the conservation of farms in restricted areas, and in particular for the settlement of the Slovenian countryside. That's what these funds are for. I reiterate that it is also income that the fund should actually leave to the municipality; the remuneration for the use of the building land is a local tax that the fund must pay. And if he's not paying for it, of course, it's a major damage that's happening in the area of local communities. The same applies to the maintenance of forest roads - municipalities pay maintenance of forest roads, why not get part of these funds refunded through compensation for management of Slovenian forests, state forests. And, of course, the sale of unwalled buildings is not under the jurisdiction of the fund, and it does. It is therefore a matter of resources which the Fund should not have in its own revenue, and only part of these funds are required, or we are proposing, in fact, that they remain in the municipalities. Of course, I think it's also in the national interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u99	Now we have two grandkids, do you have a replica or a debate? [[...]] It's a debate. Replica has Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u100	Thank you very much. If I properly understand the proposal of the basic law, 50 percent of the inflows of funds should go back to the congregations. It reads: "For the purposes of the first and second indents of the preceding paragraph, 50 per cent of the inflows of leases for agricultural land and compensation, etc., the use of forests owned by the Republic of Slovenia shall be directed from the fund programme in the area of each local community. "You are proposing 30%. How, do I understand? Wrong. Could you, please? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u101	Now, Mr. Rupar, of course it wasn't a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u102	No, no, I was gonna tie her up. [[...]] [[It's not understandable, talking to each other.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u103	The questions are for working bodies and everything else, etc., general discussion, so procedurally, please excuse me, but this was not a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u104	I'm saying that's why I wanted to put a replica on this question, but because I've obviously made a mistake, I'm sorry and I'm withdrawing this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Grandchild has the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u106	Thank you for your word. As for the amendment presented by Mr Weber on behalf of the Consolidated List, of course, it sounds good. Perhaps Mr Weber also has some experience because he comes from an area where there are many such lands and municipalities, but he has no influence on the management of them. However, here in the introductory debate, when presenting the opinions of the groups of Members, we have put certain questions on this very subject: what are the actual financial consequences, namely, for the benefit of the municipality and for the detriment of the fund. From today's debate, we have heard that the fund has a loss in forestry. Now, if we divert certain funds from this area, then we should change the name of the fund that it is not only a fund of agricultural land and forests, but something else, because otherwise this fund will work with loss and, of course, it will become a budgetary consumer, or it is not against the municipalities getting additional funds, but I think we absolutely need the opinions of the finance ministry, or it really means additional funds for the municipality - Mr Weber says that. [[...]] However, the Ministry may propose a change in the law in the work that speaks of the revenue of the municipalities, and these funds then do not increase the income, but they can reduce the financial compensation that we know is not only justified by 28 municipalities, but 146, and here again, I will say, not all municipalities receive this income, but only some. Thus, we doubt here that the municipalities will actually benefit more from it, and there are doubts that these funds will then be used deliberately for these purposes, as some cases are known that some municipalities have not been used deliberately for these purposes. I therefore think that without an assessment of the financial implications, both for the Fund and for the Fund, because some of the powers or certain services that the Fund is currently doing, the Land Cluster should then carry out the professional services of the municipality, which are not all qualified and will, therefore, have to hire certain assistance and will have certain costs from this Title. On the other hand, we have already warned that we have two funds, two institutions with related activities in this area and that they are intertwined. And we are interested in what the minister thinks about this subject, given that a change of the forest institution is also envisaged in the near future. Is it possible to combine or transfer certain activities currently carried out by the Fund into this institution? This amendment would then significantly reduce the funds and, on the other hand, it is also questionable, given that the amendment foresees that the fund will collect these funds and then divide them. It is said that 30 percent of the congregation and 70 percent kept to themselves, but at the same time we accuse the Fund of having no regulated data, some land records, that there are no other matters to be settled because the law imposed upon it certain powers. It is said that certain lands have become the property of the fund, but the fund does not have the money to settle these matters, and in practice there is a great problem when, say, the fund also leases certain lands, where it is later found that they are not at all owned by it, that someone else owns them. There are inescapable accusations and other problems in this area. So please, here's the Ministry's professional service to tell us if there's any such assessment, or else we're asking the Ministry of Finance to clarify the financial implications here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u107	A debate, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u108	Respectable. Given that we have not been able to achieve with this law the goal we have pursued in the first amendments or at the beginning of the changes, and that, despite all that, it is better to reject this law at the end, as Mr Kramberger has said, and to re-set requirements that should then be properly regulated in the law. And because this amendment is one of those that is fundamentally contrary to the purpose of the fund. The Fund is essentially intended to take care of state-owned land and forests, to carry out transport, to perform all the functions required to manage land and forests in a qualitative manner. And since it is the end of the state interest or national interest, as has been the case in recent times, to increase the quantity of protected forests - for example, it is impossible and not in the context of the law that we are now entering a new division from the deforestation of these forests and land. For if this is a problem - and I believe that the problem with maintaining forest roads, trains and all that has been said here - is not a question that can be settled in this way, but with the policy of the Fund, with the policy of the Ministry, after all, with the policy of the government to ensure that it will be invested in these forest routes, in these roads, in afforestation, I do not know what else, through the financing of direct programmes and, of course, through the financing of the public forestry service. And because these are things that I believe are fundamental to this issue, although it seems urgent and fair to the municipalities which own roads and roads, but which are destroyed by trucks, tractors and so on because of access to forests in particular and also to certain lands, in the use of both forests and land, but are not earmarked for the maintenance of these roads, these bridges and so on, in the context of alignment or in the context of specific programmes or any such means, to the municipalities. And because I know that some of our Members are as close to this amendment as others, because they like it, because they say, "Ah, now we will get some more money so that we can fix some problems in our congregation," it may be acceptable at first. However, I do not believe that the weaknesses of the functioning of the other performance fund cannot be resolved in such a way that it is simply incorporated into the law, that it is shared in such a way or in any other way as is foreseen here. After all, I don't know if 30% is enough or not. I think that every road needs to be maintained and costs as much as it costs under the programme, once more less. However, as some of the functions are listed here, such as, say, co-financing the restoration of the earth cadastre - this is not a matter of the congregation, it is a matter that the state must regulate independently of what the congregation has, and so on. So this amendment [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] Yeah, I'm sure it's the state. Yes, but well, I can be wrong about anything, but I assure you, however, that a cadastral is a matter of state and not of the congregation, I'm sure of that, even though you think I'm wrong, but I don't think so. [[...]] And there's something else I could say about it. Therefore, regardless of my support for rejecting the law at the end of the day, I would also like to say that we do not support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u109	Thank you. The Minister also wanted a word on this. One more replica was - I'm sorry, Mr. Minister - I don't know if it's Mr. Rupar? First Mr. Weber, then Mr. Rupar. All right, Mr. Webber, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u110	I'm replicating Mr. Anderlich. Look, Mr. Anderlich, we pay for maintenance of forest roads from the appropriate consumption of municipalities. It's pure municipal money. In addition to giving for forest roads, we then maintain local ones who are destroyed on the basis of what you yourself have explained. The replacement for the use of building land is a pure local tax, which is not paid by the Fund of Agricultural Lands, which also has unbuilt buildings in its use; and it is a net local tax that the Fund does not pay. If we want to replace the outage in those municipalities where state land is, it is imperative that we retain some of the funds in that area to fill this hole that is being created by the municipalities, because of, I don't know, the laws adopted in another area, but they prevent the development of these congregations. It is not about taking something away from the fund; it is about what was taken from the municipalities to partly replace with the funds received from the State Forest Compensation Fund from leases on agricultural land and the disposal of unpaved building land, which, as I said, are at the price of one euro - as agriculturally and as unpavedly as 10 euros. It's a profit that the fund collects without communally equipping an unwalled building land, or giving a tolar for it. So we are not taking anything from the fund, but we are proposing that part of the funds remain in the area for these purposes. But we're not taking anything. He should be paying for it by now, and he's not doing it. Thus, it is not an intervention in the fund, but it is an intervention in the congregation, and in doing so we will only partially mitigate the consequences that have actually occurred since the Fund has been operating in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr. Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u112	I'm gonna be a little short.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u113	A replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u114	The replica, yes, Mr. Anderlich, because Mr. Weber has already told us everything. So, the only option the municipalities have from this title - to get money - is to collect compensation for the use of local roads. They are now signing contracts with the congregation fund, but I must say that this money is so small that the municipalities in their budgets have to make a substantial amount of money, if not once more, and several times as much as we get from the fund. But the fund's been adjusted. I have to say again: the fund has always been adjusted to the municipalities, but it is true that it had a very small amount of money. Our fight or battle, both at the level of local communities and in this law, is that from concessionaires, from the concessionaires, the fund gets more so that it can be shared more. Now, of course, this 30% is the first time in ten years that we are legally regulating, if I understand correctly, the financing of reconstruction or maintenance of local and forest roads, i.e. on the basis of logging. So for the first time, because now we've been doing this in the congregation from our budgets, from other sources, and I'm already going to say, to such an anomaly, because roads are due to the weight of these trucks, which are usually overcrowded, that the roads are destroyed and the maintenance here is a question if it's still a maintenance issue, if it's not just a renewal of roads. I support this amendment, of course, and it seems to me that it is contrary to the good, national interest that you have mentioned, Mr Anderlich. [[...]] National interest is also the municipalities. This is also a national interest and it is definitely difficult now to distinguish what is in this respect: or large forest areas, i.e. lush growth, large amounts of wood, priority over roads, for example, used by residents. So it seems to me that you have not found out correctly and that this amendment is in the interest of the municipalities and that the population is very useful.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u115	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u116	I repeat to Mr. Anderlich. See, this is actually the first time that the relationship between the three partners between the local community, between the fund and the concessionaire, will be regulated. One piece in the infrastructure area. Of course, the infrastructure used by concessionaires, i.e. on agricultural land, is at the same time an infrastructure for the population of an area. And Mr Anderlič, when it comes to rebuilding or modernising this infrastructure, you come as a local community in line, and he says: we do not have a legal basis to co-finance the construction, renovation or modernisation of road infrastructure. When you come to the tenant, the one who made the lease says to the concessionaire: "Listen, we have concluded the concession contract with the owner, we are paying the rent - of course now paying or not paying, that is another story - and there is no reason to co-finance anything in this investment. In the end, of course, the local community remains; in general, the problem is where the fund is large works - so it has a domestic right in a local community. And there, of course, can be bigger problems than, of course, where this is significantly less. I'll be very specific. When they drive a sugar beet along a local road built for local traffic for a 4-ton axle load, with trucks of 40 to 50 tonnes, then you can imagine what it means to modernise such local infrastructure next spring or two years later. In short, total destruction. And relations - whether it's real or not, I'd rather say it's too low for the local community. And here, of course, in my opinion - everything is just as good as it is, if, of course, the local community were also a co-signatory of the concession contract. That would then be something of a quality move in this area. Now this share will also be because at least it will have an insight into these concession contracts and, of course, about how it is managed and what is happening, so what is happening in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u117	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u118	I really didn't have any intention of stalling this debate, but I did. I simply understand and believe and support that the costs incurred by the exploitation of agricultural land or forest are absolutely reimbursed to the municipalities. And that the congregation cannot, if someone exploits a forest or a land, pay the costs because someone in this title has carried out an economic activity. It's absolutely clear here. Of course, Mr Weber has also planted a substitute for a building land that has no connection, and this amendment does not talk about it at all; but let us leave it. Indeed, in relation to the fund, the concessionaire and the local community, it is necessary to regulate either with a programme, a contract or with anything that, for example, the exploitation of a forest means the use of so many and so many local roads, such and such damage, it is essential that these funds from the fund and the profits from the activity be used for construction. I don't know if it's 29 or 30 or 35% enough. And marriages can't be done that way, you just say over your finger, we'll give it up, I'm a little bit there, and in the end, everyone will be happy. That's not true. In general, because it is not clear to me and you do not elaborate on another when you say, "the funds referred to in the second paragraph of this Article, which belong to the congregation, are used" - for co-financing, for co-financing and so on - for professional grounds [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u119	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u120	"Professional grounds for the protection and regulation of agricultural land and planning" - which agricultural land? So, whether the funds or the agricultural land of the congregation are just like that, or all of them together; to what extent will the fund be paid; to what extent will you pay in the congregations; what will you plan and so on? The next item, "to co-finance the restoration of the earth's cadastra" - a matter of state. I don't know: in what way will the congregation be co-financed, in what proportion, to what extent? The next item, "for the co-financing of land plots that are in the country's own work and in the other part of the municipality's own" - yes, please! You will arrange a contract, a fund, and a congregation with a contract to cover your expenses if you go! I'm different, but that's the way it has to be. [[...]] Now, if the fund is bad for the masters, if the ministry and all the supervisory authorities do not perform the supervisory function, we will not force it to do so by law. "To co-finance the integrated development of the countryside and to rebuild the village" - that is, an item that I think is good in itself, okay, wonderful. But whether this source is true or not, I claim that this source is not properly defined in this way. Again it is a matter of the programme, again the thing of co-financing, as I understand it, every programme you go to in the congregation must first have investment justification, scope and so on. [[...]] In what share is it supposed to be co-financed? This is probably where the criteria need to be worked out, it needs to be done -- it's not here. "For supporting sonar farming" - what does that mean? So, from this heading, which is a strictly purposeful source, the source is dedicated, so from a specific point of view, of course, you will now be financing everything else. I can, too, but in some way - there are no criteria again, and so on, I am not going forward. Of course, I think that the purpose is right and that the congregations are right to strive for as many conditions as possible, money, and so on. Got it. But like this amendment you've made, I don't think it's operational or attaining its purpose. Therefore, I propose that we do not accept him as such. But I'm going back to the beginning. Read Article 1 of the Law on the Agricultural Lands Fund, which unquestionably makes clear why the Fund is established. If the fund is set up to do so, it must manage these things, get the money, and also give the state something else to really carry out those functions. Once again, I have a lot of comments about the Fund's work, I hear them every day from people who walk and explain problems, from not being able to arrange parcels, not even writing contracts, not knowing that they have two borders, say, five hectares from the Earth Fund and a half-acre haircut because the official doesn't even look at who they gave it to, etc. But these are other stories. But it's the way you change the law like that, it doesn't work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u121	Mr. Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The government opposes the proposal by the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats, or by the Group of Members of the United Nations; even more so, the Government is proposing an amendment to delete the second and third paragraphs of Article 2 of the second reading. This means that since the government considers that the way in which we would regulate is, in fact, an important and urgently necessary area of regulation in the manner proposed, is incorrect. This means that the government considers that the law cannot and cannot provide for a certain percentage of concessions to be granted to local communities. Why? For the first time, because each country has one land policy and land policy has to be central, and no country has different land policies. Secondly, because in this case we would act totally anti-European. In Europe, they know the concept of land, agricultural or forestry, regardless of their property. So, land is owned by either private or state owned or owned by companies. So it cannot and must not be two or more categories of land. Therefore, where certain compensation for such or other needs is granted to local communities or regions on the basis of land use, they shall be equally allocated to them and in the same manner, irrespective of ownership of a particular land. Therefore, it is unacceptable that the land owned by the State would be the land which would have received the payment of certain compensations under this Title, but not the land owned by the State or any other property. In short, it's of course, it doesn't work together. Wait, that's right! On the other hand, the Fund's income in 2001 is two billion 95 million revenue, one billion 973 million expenditure. In this case, when we're talking about 30%, that means six million. This, of course, means that, in fact, the fund is simply abolished. In this context, it should be added that the Fund has a number of obligations that occur over the years. One of the obligations is the obligation under the issued certificates resulting from the denationalisation procedures. In about five years' time, the Fund will have to start paying off receipts that are something they have decided to do and decide on in the denationalisation processes, the burden of the farm and forest fund, if they do not decide or where it is not possible to return to the farm land in nature, they also have the opportunity to decide to hand over the receipts which the Fund will, of course, have to pay in these subsequent procedures. Next. The fund is already paying DURS fees. Last year - latest data: 168 million for maintenance of forest roads. This money must be distributed to local communities on the basis of the specific key of the forest institution. This means that in this case the fund would be double-burdened and would double be complete illogicality here. I could count more of these cases. The main problem is that the Fund was not set up for this purpose. The Fund was established to make landowners owned by the State of the Republic of Slovenia. I propose that the following amendment of the law will also make this fund responsible for the management or certain impact of the management of unprocessed land owned by private owners. Only in this way will we have instruments that are clearly present in most European Union countries. I myself wanted to propose that in 2002 the Fund would launch an active agricultural land policy in a way that would allow a particular contract on the basis of which a long-term lease would allow the farmer to pay the rent and become owner of these land after a certain period of time. Of course, this will not be possible if the fund does not have the possibility or its base, the financial base. On the other hand, it is envisaged that the Fund should also start borrowing in financial markets and thus offer to others a possible way of purchasing agricultural land by offering, together with the offer or purchase, a credit relationship. The Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests must accelerate the rounding of land. However, this can only be done if this function is also possible and if it is given an appropriate financial basis. Justifiable unresolved or under-regulated but open dilemmas need to be regulated differently, bearing in mind that, if the State decides on them, for various purposes, roads and the like, the compensation must apply to land, irrespective of ownership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u123	Replicas, Mr. Weber, Mr. Puksic, Mr. Petan, Mrs. Possonec. Please, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u124	I have a replica of Mr. Anderlich first. It says that this amendment has nothing to do with compensation for the use of building land. Mr Anderlič, please read Article 14, paragraph 3, of Article 14, which provides that agricultural land will also become unpaved building land. It is a grave breach of the law on public funds also into unwalled building plots, which simply transforms unwalled building land into agricultural land. If you look at public tenders for the sale of these plots, the fund sells them at a price for an unpaved building plot. All together, however, has the name of the agricultural land and sells it at the price of building land. That is why this amendment is so written that the funds obtained by the Fund through the management of agricultural land, farms and forests belong, etc., then to the municipalities. This law has reached into unpaved building areas and called them agricultural lands, so we are talking about agricultural amendments because we are following this law. If we talk about whether or not it belongs and whether it is the function of the municipality to co-finance the professional grounds for the protection and regulation of agricultural land and planning. Why not? This is in the interest of the congregations. Just like the restoration of the earth cadastre, just like that. Co-financing of plots of land plots owned by the State and in the second part of the municipality. This is an extremely expensive procedure which must be exclusively financed by the municipality under the Public Fund Act. The fund hasn't done anything yet, because it doesn't even have a record on the plot exactly. Why should the congregation fully bear the cost of dividing the land into state - owned and municipal land? I don't see why. Sonar farming is certainly an interest and is already being cofinanced by the congregations. Overall rural development is also co-financed. Integrated rural development is a programme that is being prepared with the support of the Ministry of Agriculture. This programme must, of course, be guided by an expert team and procedures must be monitored and this process gives consent to both the Ministry of Agriculture and the municipality. But it's about co-financing integrated development. If we look at today's budget and the invitation to tender for the Ministry of Agriculture in 2002, we will find that the Ministry in 2002 provides funds for integrated rural development and the reconstruction of the village for measures taken, carried out in municipalities in 2000, with a two-year delay. This time of municipalities is credited by the Ministry, or at least a year's delay, Mr Minister, if not for two years. However, the municipalities here also credit the part that should be taken over by the Ministry. Local infrastructure is a very clear measure within the competence of the local community. However, the minister, the areas of maintenance of forest roads are obviously unknown. The maintenance of forest roads from municipal budgets is a matter of fees paid independently of whether or not the rent is charged. The fee is a special duty which, in accordance with the Law on Public Finance and the Law on the Financing of the Communities, is the own revenue of the municipality, which is included in the appropriate consumption. And the municipalities finance state forest roads, or all forest roads, from their appropriate spending, because the fees from private and state forests are collected in the municipal budget. These are the own revenues that we must devote to state and other forest roads. Why? It's not about the rent at all, it's not about the rent, it's not about the rent, it's not about the rent, it's not about the rent, it's not about the rent, it's not about the rent, it's about the special tax, and it's about the maintenance of the forest roads. And the Forest Office requires us to put it there, otherwise it will not give us agreement on the regulation of local roads passing through state forests. This is happening in practice - blackmailing a local community country so that it cannot regulate a local road cannot pave the road through state forests because the forest fund or agency requires the municipality to invest resources in forest roads from its appropriate consumption. This is the current situation in Slovenia. Part of this is resolved that compensation for forests is allocated to the municipalities in order to mitigate these consequences, only to mitigate them, not to replace them in full. I don't know where the logic is, why you count in the fund's income the sale of buildings that you can't even manage. He doesn't put Tolara in municipal infrastructure, and he sells it at the price of building land! Why? Extra profit of the fund to which it is not entitled. It is only these revenues that the fund should not create at all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u125	Thank you. I think it would be appropriate for Mr Franz Nabernik of the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests to respond immediately. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. [[Franc Nabernik, Director of the Forestry Sector for Agricultural Lands and Forests.]] I have to be absolutely clear about the maintenance of the forest roads. In doing so, we need to know that we separate forest roads and public roads. Forest roads are those roads that practically open forests from which wood is exported. For these purposes, the fund shall, through fees, provide annually 168 million tolars in the form of fees paid by the municipality. This money is then allocated to congregations through the key of the forest office, which determines how many miles of roads there are in a congregation. And money must be spent for this purpose. It is this money that comes from the funds that the fund receives from forest management. The Fund not only pays the maintenance fees for forest roads, but also invests in investment maintenance of forest roads and new forest roads. Last year, a total of 300 million tolars were invested in forest infrastructure for maintenance, reconstruction and new construction of forest roads. This is said to be a fund of money obtained from concession compensation, absolutely under the programme, put back into forests, that is to say, in public infrastructure, in the payment of compensations for - an additional 100 million that for unpaid forests to companies, then an additional fund invests certain funds or reserves certain funds for purchases and so on. Mainly, this money is spent on management and investment, mainly for the purposes of the Fund's operation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u127	Mr. Potočnik, Secretary of State. Thank you for your word. First, let me explain to Mr Webru that in the financial plan or income plan, the fund did not have the planned assets from the sale of building land in 2001. Then I would also like to say about this plan because the question previously raised is what are the financial consequences. About 630 million would be less money for the agricultural land and forests fund of the Republic of Slovenia, and on average each of the 192 municipalities would receive 3.25 million, of course very different from the municipality to the municipality. The Fund, which provides for some balanced development of the country, also from funds it acquires in certain areas, covers costs in other areas. For example, from the economic forests it has to put resources into the conservation forests, the forests in Prekmurje are poorer quality and the forest economy there without having to pay them extra money, could not rule those worse forests. The consequences of this amendment for the fate of the Fund are great, and this would bring very little to individual congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u128	We've got a couple of replicas now. We're on our way. Mr Pukšič, Mr Petan, Mr Anderlich, Mr Weber, Mr Rupar, Mr Grošelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u129	I repeat to Mr. Anderlich. Options for regulating between the local community, the fund and the concessionaire by contract. That's not a possibility because it's not a legal basis. The legal basis is not in the law. Mr Anderlič, you can believe that these possibilities of regulating with a contract, co-financing, whatever, have passed these stories several times with the fund. If this were general practice, then it would probably not be a problem here, that is, in amending this law, or at all, it would not be such a big problem and five years of marriage. I have already said at the outset that there is a great deal of confusion here and that, in my deep belief, the fund has done one great job, but now times after ten years have changed, many things have changed in the structure, we have got a fundamental law, this is the law on the local community, we have been given a law on coherent regional development. Now the function of the Fund, in my opinion, can be significantly different, especially the control function. This control function would, of course, be dictated by the country with land policy. I would also partially replicate to the Minister when he said that it would be possible for farmers to pay off the lease. Mr. Minister, if it's anyone's interest to make this happen, then it's the interest of the local community. Now there you go, fellows and fellows! Show me one mayor in the Republic of Slovenia who deals with agricultural issues and does not have a legal basis, we do not have a legal basis in the law on local government promotion and development of agriculture and a small economy in local communities. It's actually just formalized. What today, of course, doesn't mean you have to put where you're from. I'd put it back where you have it. That's what this is all about. It wouldn't stay where it wasn't created. But it would go back to the area where it was created and where it exists. Look, to co-finance the restoration of the Earth's cadastral. Yes, the Minister, the Ministry of the Environment and Space says we are going to rebuild the Earth disaster on condition of 50:50. 50 will be given by the congregation, 50 will be given by the state. So again, there's no source for the local community to take it from. This article would, of course, have the source and the legal basis for a contract with the Fund, or the law would define this division. If that is not the case, then there is no legal basis for certain matters, such as promoting co-natural farming, agriculture in an area with limited development opportunities, and so on. In those areas where the Fund has a large part of domestic law, this is of paramount importance. Unfortunately, of course, there was not much contact, communication and cooperation with the local community and with the fund, but even less with the concessionaire, of course, because he simply felt no need.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. I think today's discussion is useful. There's another reason. And this is that we can figure out what this fund lives on and how it lives on a thread. I think it's important, too, and we're looking at it from any angle. I would say, however, that I could not exactly agree with the minister when he said that this amendment would have been adopted to be anti-European. I'll try to justify it as quickly as possible. It is true that the proposer may have tried to set an excessive task by means of this amendment, which could be arranged. It's all justified. So there is no dilemma here, but given the resources available this would not be possible. He himself would illuminate only one segment of this, namely forests and everything about forests, as well as forest roads. The fact is that forest roads are always, under current legislation, the responsibility of the local community. You probably don't have to lose a lot of words here anyway. For maintenance, if they are called local roads or forest roads, if they are slightly renamed, recategorised, the fact is that many forest roads have become local roads because they are also used for other purposes, not only for the exploitation and exploitation of forests. That's one fact. And money from these forests is being collected somewhere else. It is said that the local community is responsible for maintenance, and those who use these roads to enable them to exploit forests at all, while others collect compensation for this. I think if there's anything non-European, then it's that one's in charge of the tasks and the other's in charge of the money. That's, I mean, non-Europeanism. However, as far as the criticism of the Fund is concerned, we must agree with Mr Anderlich, because that is a fact. Let me say that before the fund was established - I think it was ten years ago or it will now be ten years ago - these lands were managed and run by the congregations of the then great congregations. I know well - at least in our congregation it was so - that for all these lands the congregations were very, I will say, tenderly and faithfully charged or at least signed leases, even if they were symbolic amounts, they were probably more or less symbolic. But in view of the large number of land, a number of resources have been raised, and in Slovenia probably even more. I think this transformation came about in 1993, but if it was a year earlier or later, it's not that important after all. However, when these lands have moved into the management of the fund, I can say with certainty that at least 90% of the land has not been signed for at least two years and no lease has been collected. I will not say what it is like now, but I think it is probably a similar situation, that we probably don't get all the concessions either. That is to say, if now this 30% would jeopardize the operation of the fund, we know why the fund was set up, these are some of the goals from the state level, so it's clear, but if this fund is at risk, then let it just go to waste. But there's something else I want to say. I don't think it's going to go down, but I think the fund would have worked hard if you'd lost that 30% to make better contracts. One of these is for rent or whatever we say, the forest rent we talked about today. And they probably wouldn't be such a ridiculous rent, and they'd probably be in a different position against those who are interested in forest management than they are now. So I'm going to support this amendment, and I think it's a little too wide, but I think it's a good idea. I am convinced that I would achieve another effect that I mentioned earlier, but I will repeat it again: I would force the fund to start thinking differently and to manage differently and to take advantage of all that - I do not think that I would raise the prices per unit for rent or for management, I do not mean that, but that strictly all the lands owned by the Fund would conclude contracts for them and that all those who benefit from these lands would be in an equal position under the law. And that seems to me to be the most important thing that the fund doesn't do right now. Thank you very much. Like I said, I'm gonna explain my voice that I'm not answering later, and I'm gonna support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u133	Only in the part where it is necessary to explain to Mr Weber that he is actually talking about something else, as the amendment says. The amendment does not say that the purchases or disposals of land, unpaved buildings, by management, but management means something else, does not mean trade, does not mean the sale of these land. No, no, management means someone's taking advantage of this land, this forest, and paying off some taxes, some concessions, etc. It says something else here. Of course, this does not have anything to do with the 16th article that you refer to, because here simply Article 16 speaks about how land, farm, etc. should be moved. to the fund or the congregation, and that fees are free. I don't know what you mean by that. When I was looking at the amendment and the purpose of the amendment seemed to me that, as it was put in, it was simply unacceptable. Nowhere do we know that there was virtually no plot that Yes, if it is a lie, then make it clear that government representatives are lying and that we are not necessarily talking over it. [[...]] If we are talking about data that is not accurate, then of course I am not ready to follow this debate in the way that I have before me a proposal for a law, an amendment proposal, a position of my mother's working body and that I am trying to make it what would be most useful for the whole issue. Please, I would like to concentrate on this amendment, for this purpose, I have understood it as I have explained twice before, and as such it is not acceptable to me. However, if there is traffic in unpaved building areas and that something is hidden or otherwise, it is, of course, necessary to clear up. The rest of the replica was one way or another a confirmation of what I was saying. Therefore, there is no particular need for me to continue this debate and I will no longer replicate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr. Weber, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u135	Perhaps a replica first to Mr. Anderlich, and then I have a replica of Mr. Potočnik and Mr. Nabernik. Mr Anderlič, Article 2 of the Agricultural Land Fund Act in the second paragraph speaks of management under this law as management and availability. Circumstances also mean the possibility of selling. If we look at Article 14, paragraph 3 of Article 14, "agricultural land is also considered to be unpaved building land". An invasion of this law into an area where he should never have intervened at all. The fact is that the fund sells unwalled building plots, there is evidence, there is a court dispute because municipalities are suing the fund because it is sold to them, and the fund is citing precisely this article because it says that it is not building land because it is agricultural land in accordance with Article 14 of the Public Fund Act. This is all the art of these conflicts, and the fact is that the fund sells unwalled building plots. The one who claims not to be true is lying, and I claim to be completely responsible that this is a lie. About less money, like Potočnik says, for the fund. You provide data for 2001. If concession contracts had been concluded in 1993, the financial situation would have been significantly different. The current signed concession contracts speak of the Fund having once more revenue in 2002 than it had in 2001. If the fund had been doing this all along, it would have had money significantly more than ever since its operation. And also, what did the fund do to influence or warn - did the fund point to the question of 40% of the logging in the state forests? What did the fund do to increase its income? Nothing! He advocated such an attitude in order for the GGs to collapse, because if you have nothing to cut, then the company can't exist either. The task of the Fund and the Ministry is to clear up this situation at the Forest Office. When 40% of the increase is not cut but 80%, once more revenue will also be paid for the management of Slovenian forests. That's the answer, whether the fund will have money or not - this! My dear gentlemen, do and the matter will be as good as it should be. So far, however, this management has been disastrous, but for the reasons I have just stated. And, Mr Nabernik, the dedicated use of resources, what is appropriate in the use of municipalities, the municipal council, when it adopts the budget, determines the purposeful use of resources. This is a purposeful use of resources, not what the Slovenian Forest Institute would like.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u136	Mr. Grochell, the replica. [[He's quitting.]] Okay, thanks. Then we're done. Is there another replica? [[...]] Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u137	I think that what Mr Weber said last in his replica and stated is one of the fundamental problems of the Fund's operation - impeding the Fund to have a financial basis for carrying out its core task. Certain roads, Mr Weber, in this country have prevented the signing of concession contracts until 2002, and from 2002 the Fund should be prevented from taking 30% of its original revenues. This is a key problem - you've said everything with your replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u138	Mr. Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I have before me an official document, this is the Fund's financial plan for 2001, adopted by the Fund's Council and agreed by the Government. And it says "zero" under the heading "sale of building plots."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u140	Thank you. Mrs. Possonec, did you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. I also had a replica of myself to Mr. Minister, and you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u142	I'm sorry! A bunch of replicas, and somehow, I seem to have made a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Even though I have great respect for the Minister, I must answer him about what is distasteful. In my opinion, it is inconceivable that municipalities that have only agricultural land are poor as church mice and we are constantly begging for money here in Ljubljana and with our lands the masters of the state. The masters, in fact, have no money. And this has been happening for decades. If these lands were owned by the congregation, then we might have some basis for economic development, and this is not the case. Besides, talking about a single agricultural policy, I don't see it. As long as the suburban "stands" are empty, until then, there is no agricultural policy for my concepts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We would now like to conclude this debate on this article and the replicas. No, no, no. Any more replicas? Wait, let's have a debate first. We've closed the debate. Good. I therefore conclude the debate on Article 2. We have a procedural proposal. Please. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u145	Thank you. Because I suppose we'll go to the vote. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u146	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u147	I propose, procedurally, to consult the Group of Members on this amendment, I ask for half an hour's rest. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-13-SDZ3-Izredna-14.ana.u148	If it's half an hour, we're done for today. Tomorrow at 2 p.m. we continue with this point and then, of course, orderly forwards.
