ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u1	I welcome all of this at the beginning of the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which I convened on the basis of Article 57(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to cooperate with us today because of other obligations. These are colleagues of Dr. Gaber, Kacin, Jakič, Marshič, colleague of Moze will be absent after 5 p.m., colleague of Pucko after 4 p.m., colleague of Stopareva, colleague of Zlbec, Zamernik, Trofenik, colleague of Črnugelj, colleague of Barovic, Weber, Bernik, Čeligoj, Zamernik, Fabjan and colleague of Švagan. I have invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to all items of the agenda, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovska, and the representative of the Council of Justice to the 23rd item of the agenda. I welcome all those present once again! The minutes of the 16th and 17th sessions and of the 20th and 21st extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly will be discussed before the agenda is set. In accordance with the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, the minutes of the meeting of the assembly shall no longer be recorded. In those cases, however, there are meetings of the assembly which have ended before the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the rules of procedure in force so far. I therefore propose that we proceed with the procedure for their adoption. The minutes are on display in the computer network and I ask respectable colleagues whether any of you have any comments or suggestions regarding these minutes. Do I understand that there are no such comments and proposals? Then we will proceed to the decision on the minutes of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We vote on the minutes of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 47 for, no one against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. There were no comments to the minutes of the 17th session, so I am voting on it. We vote on the minutes of the 17th session. There are 60 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 50 of them for, one of them objected. I take it the minutes have been adopted. There were no comments to the minutes of the 20th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, so I am voting on it. We're voting. One more time. Excuse me? Is everything all right, buddy Merlo? [[Okay.]] I understand that the devices are in order and that we can decide on the minutes of the 20th extraordinary session. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall! 59 present. 51 for and no one against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 20th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. Finally, we will also take or decide on the minutes of the 21st extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. We vote on the minutes of the 21st extraordinary session. 57 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we have also adopted this record. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda for the 18th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is prepared in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to it on 13 September this year. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In setting the agenda, as this article says, the National Assembly shall first decide on proposals for individual matters to be removed from the agenda and then on proposals for an extension of the agenda. I would like to remind you that I have not received any proposals for the withdrawal and extension of the agenda within the time limit. That is why we are moving to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. We vote on the draft agenda you have received with reference. 62 present, 48 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the agenda of the 18th meeting of the assembly has been set. Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, this is to consider the request of the Group of Members that the decision of the College on the type of procedure be decided by the National Assembly, allow me to say only two thoughts exceptionally. We're starting to work on the new rules of procedure. I think we are all aware of the responsibility that we have as an institution for making decisions and the difficulties that the new rules of procedure put before us in this regard. All, and especially the leadership of the National Assembly, have prepared, to the best of their ability, to conduct a meeting of the National Assembly in such a way that the Rules of Procedure will not be violated. We have tried to determine whether circumstances and situations could be particularly complicated and have found that this might happen to places at this and future meetings. There is no provision in the Rules of Procedure on patience, but I propose that we be as collegiate and patient as possible. None of us who will preside over this meeting will be biased in their decisions. If they are wrong, and later we will find that it might be appropriate to do otherwise, we will take this into account when we continue to hold a meeting of the National Assembly. If we believe that a particular problem is of particular importance, we will suspend Parliament's meeting and consult for a moment. None of the decisions that we will take as chairman at this meeting of the national assembly will be unprecedented, and we may be able to do otherwise later on in other actions if we jointly assess that this is the right thing to do. We are all therefore bound by the Rules of Procedure, first and foremost by those who are running the National Assembly. Because of bias, we will not make mistakes if they happen to us, I ask you to understand and to apologize in advance. We're at 1. Agenda items - Advocates the demands of the group of Members that the decision of the College on the nature of the procedure be decided by the State assembly. At its meeting on 16 July, the College of Presidents decided that the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice d.d. should be considered following an urgent procedure, the proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs should be examined following a regular procedure and the proposal for a law on the exceptional reduction of the tax liability following a regular procedure. During the five-day term of office, a group of 18 Members, with their first signed mags, opposes the decision of the College. Andrej Viszak, requested that, pursuant to paragraph 10 of Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, the College's decision be taken by the National Assembly. I ask whether the proposer's representative would like a word on the college's decision that the proposal for a law on the reshaping of the privatisation of the Slovenian Railway public undertaking should be considered on an urgent basis. Does anyone want to? Mr. Kelemin, you have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u3	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u4	Dear Members and Members, Mr President, all present! Our parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party or the Coalition of Slovenia as a whole, is proposing to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law on the transformation of the privatisation of the public enterprise of the Slovenian Railways should not be considered by emergency procedure, but that it should be dealt with in accordance with the normal procedure. Why do we advocate such a definition? Indeed, when we examine the problems with the proposals covered by this law, we find that there are in fact no reasons for the urgency of the procedure or, worse still, we find that all these excuses, which the Government has cited as conditions or requirements for an emergency procedure, do not, in fact, hold. From the debate itself, and in general, we have found that the current system of Slovenian Railways has already been adapted to most directives of the European Community and that there is no need for this for an urgent procedure. Of course, the deadlines already laid down in the programme for the adoption of the acquis in the National Assembly regarding the alignment with the EU acquis are also late, which should have been actually done by the end of last year, but we are generally late. The EU does not require privatisation, so to speak, recommends the recovery and recovery of old debts. The Secretariat also notes that it actually points to the inadequacy of this law, because all the solutions proposed in this law are extremely inaccurate. We are also aware that the Economic and Social Council today, when addressing this issue, has not fully supported the proposal for an urgent procedure. Even the Ministry of Labour supports the regular procedure, as it notes that the solutions provided in this law do not solve matters in a comprehensive and transparent manner, with some broad social consensus. In short, there are a number of reasons that suggest that even in the government, this proposal is not harmonised and that there are also doubts within the government itself or in individual ministries that the proposal for a law under the emergency procedure is not appropriate. Now is not the time to state all the arguments, because of something else we do not consider necessary, but we, in the Social Democratic Party or in the Coalition of Slovenia, advocate 100% rehabilitation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice d.d., which is somehow also a recommendation of the European Community, then require an analysis of the situation with all the data and the reasons for the situation in the public enterprise Slovenske železnice d.d., definition of responsibility for the situation of the institutions involved and also the holders of powers, then we require professional starting points for the business and staff rehabilitation of the public company Slovenske žeznice d. d. or after the adoption of this law for the business system of railway companies. In fact, there are no professional starting points. In short, we demand that they place themselves on the table of the open map to make a restructuring programme or to re-employment of redundant workers resulting from this process of transformation and privatisation, in short, it is too vague for the National Assembly to take this responsibility, this great responsibility, so that such an important law as the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railway public company, can be dealt with in accordance with the urgent procedure. Dear Members, Members, our Group or the Coalition of Slovenia appeals to all Members that the responsibility that you will now accept by confirming this proposal of law by means of an urgent procedure will be taken by those Members who will actually vote in favour of such a procedure. Think carefully before the vote, for the responsibility will be on your shoulders, and remember that you will also attribute the consequences that will follow to yourself. So much for a brief explanation. We are proposing that this bill be adopted on a regular basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. He spoke on behalf of the motioners. There is no discussion on this request, there is no explanation for the vote, so I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public undertaking of Slovenske Slovenske železnica shall be considered following an urgent procedure. We're voting. We're voting. Peace in the hall. There are 71 colleagues and colleagues present, 42 for, 27 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure. The meeting will be held on Thursday afternoon in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly. Does the proposer's representative want a word regarding the college's decision to consider a proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs following a regular procedure? He does. Please, Comrade Petty Officer, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, as well as representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! For a short period of time, why do we reason that the law on the correction of wrongs should be adopted in a reduced procedure? It is probably clear to all of you that, given the age of beneficiaries, who are mostly before the time of their death, before the time of their death, it would be dignified and right to adopt as soon as possible amendments to the law, which, in our view, are also constitutionally problematic. It is therefore a proposal that the law on the correction of wrongs be adopted in a reduced procedure. These are four articles relating to the regulation of the correction of wrongs to those persons who are not entitled under this law and who have suffered injustices between May 9 and 15. I do. These have fallen out of this law. The second is the precise arrangement of the beneficiaries of the correction of the injustices which are related to the victim, either killed or closed. The current law leaves a lot of free thinking and free judgment, and in our opinion it is wrong to determine exactly which persons are entitled under the law on the correction of wrongs. The following article 37 of the Offences Correction Act, where a decision on the recognition of the status of former political prisoner is, for example, not the legal basis for erasure of a conviction from a criminal record after the war. Therefore, those who have obtained this conclusion that they have been convicted in the communist regime do not have the opportunity to rehabilitate and are still considered by this Slovenian public as criminals. This is unacceptable and is not right for the rule of law and democracy. Of course, this also violates their right to restitution, for it is stipulated in the law that the right of others should not be affected by this exemption. This means that those who, due to the liquidation or prosecution of a political prisoner, may be rewarded with his property. Therefore, according to the age situation of the beneficiaries and given the content of the corrections, it is justified, by commercial regulation, that the State assembly decide on this by means of a reduced procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u7	Thank you very much. There is no debate and no explanation for the vote. We vote on the proposal for a decision. The proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of wrongs shall be dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. Peace in the hall! Please turn your phones down to room power. Please, calm down! Voting! Just a minute. Please, what's the matter? [[A voice from behind.]] Procedural? Please. Just a minute. Please, let's see what this is about. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Look, it's a little confusing because you asked one question for the first time, the second. Did we understand the question that we are voting on a regular basis?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u9	Sure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u10	I would like to ask you because there is obviously a misunderstanding, so Members would have voted wrong. I'm asking for a clear question. You're mixing questions. [[...]] One emergency, another on a regular basis. That's exactly what happened. For the first time, it was an emergency procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u11	Comrade Visjak, I will explain why we first voted on the urgent procedure and then now on the regular procedure. The National Assembly shall decide on the decision of the College. In its previous proposal, the College decided to deal with the law following an emergency procedure. That is why the National Assembly examined and decided on the matter. And on this proposal In this case, on the proposal to follow a regular procedure. And it is always the decision of the college that weighs down the national assembly by voting. Is that clear? Good. May I have your attention, please? So I will put to the vote a proposal, i.e. the conclusion that the proposal for a law amending the law on the correction of injustices is being examined on a regular basis. We're voting. 69 present. 38 for and 27 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the ordinary procedure. I ask whether the representative of the applicants wishes to hear about the College's decision to consider the proposal for an exceptional reduction in tax liability following a regular procedure. That was the college's proposal. Anybody want a word on this? Please, Comrade Petty Officer, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u12	Thank you very much. It briefly explained to this proposal that this law should be dealt with in a simplified procedure. I have therefore tabled a law on the exceptional reduction of tax liability. Since 2001, the agreement on wage policy for the period 1999-2001, which has also resulted in the adoption of a law on the exceptional reduction of tax liabilities, has ceased to apply. Therefore, the termination of this agreement between the social partners led to a legal void. On this basis, those taxable persons no longer have the possibility of an exceptional reduction in the tax liability. This is true of the poorest layer that is in the light of the present situation, the embellishment that is somehow struck. In the last period, we have witnessed constant imitations. But it is true that the government has very interesting instruments for measuring inflation that show nothing. On this basis, of course, there is no specific coordination of social benefits, invalidity, other benefits based on state transfers, leaving these persons in a very unenviable position. The proposal would already bring relief to some 150 000 citizens this year. The ones with the most impeccable personal receipts. The law is simple, simple, it speaks of three classes. And they would be entitled, of course proportionally, to those persons who do not exceed 45 percent of the average wage in Slovenia. The financial consequences of this law are the same or would have been the same as in previous years. Why adopt this law in the short run? Because it's extremely high time we accepted it. Because most taxpayers have already received income decisions and such a law is essential if they want to enforce it already this year. Since it is therefore less difficult to harmonise or comply with other regulations and since it is necessary to ensure that the effects of the law are adopted in September this year, we propose that this law be adopted in a simplified manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. I propose to the assembly that we move to a decision on the following decision: The proposal for an exceptional reduction in tax liability law is dealt with on a regular basis. We're voting. We vote that the bill should be dealt with on a regular basis. 68 present. 39 for, 25 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the assembly will consider that proposal in accordance with the ordinary procedure. I hereby conclude this agenda item. The 2nd item of the agenda will continue according to the agreement at exactly 3 p.m. Until then, I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u14	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to 2. POINT OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE POSITION AND THE CONGREGATIONS OF THE STATE TO BE SUBMITTED BY THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF Slovenije, the first four of the three colleagues and colleagues from the opposition and one of the coalition, including the Prime Minister. I'm asking for peace in the hall. We have started the meeting, in accordance with the arrangements and rules of procedure, time must be respected. With regard to the "question of Members and Members" item, I received written notifications of questions from Members and Members within the deadline of business. I'm asking for peace. The first four parliamentary questions will be answered by the Prime Minister, asking questions from the three members of the opposition and a member of the ruling coalition. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 245 of the Rules of Procedure, the order of the opposition shall be drawn up in such a way that, for the two members of the opposition, a member of the ruling coalition is appointed. The Member may ask no more than two questions and has three minutes to do so. The Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government shall respond to the question in no more than five minutes. The Member may request a reply to be completed and the explanation of the request to complete the reply may not take more than two minutes and the reply of the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General may not be completed for more than three minutes. If the question is not answered by the Member at today's meeting, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in a bulletin of the National Assembly. In the interest of all, regardless of our position in the coalition or the opposition, it has always been in the national assembly that the government responds to the questions raised by the Members. After 30 days, if the government or the competent authorities do not answer the question sent, I will put these cases on the list that you will receive at the beginning of the next meeting of the National Assembly, so that we will always have before us what questions the government has not answered. The Member who asked the question may indicate that he insists on an oral response; in this case, I will place the question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. We are moving on to a presentation of the questions sent. As has already been said, the first four will be answered by the Prime Minister Drnovšek, whom I warmly welcome in our midst. The first question will be asked by colleague Janez Janš. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u15	Thank you for your word. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly, eight years ago, in 1994, finally formulated its position on the issue of savers of the former branches of the Ljubljana Bank in the former republics of the former SFRJ. Since then, the official position of the Slovenian State is that this is a more successful problem and that Slovenia and Slovenian taxpayers are not directly responsible for these debts or are not obliged to settle them. This year, however, there was not much pressure from former savers, because this is always constant, but mainly some statements by influential people in Slovenia. Here I am thinking mainly of Professor Mencinger, the Presidential candidate of Dr Francet Bučar and, of course, the President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan, who have put themselves in the position of these savers or the position of citizens of other countries and against the official position, which is not only the position of this Parliament, but also of governments and all competent institutions in this country, including the Bank of Slovenia. On his visit to Sarajevo this summer, the President explicitly said that Slovenia or that Slovenian taxpayers should settle this debt or at least part of that debt. I ask the government, or I ask the Prime Minister: Why has the government not responded more decisively to all these statements that directly weaken our negotiating position on this issue? Why there were virtually no denials, no public reactions. Why is this also why, abroad, where this issue is being addressed, even because of this non-reaction, as if Slovenia were willing to give up here as if it were changing its position and as if in the end Slovenian taxpayers would have to pay some 100 million euros in debt, or money that we did not spend? Let me just add that we all remember that in Slovenia in 1990, after democratic changes, we received uprooted banks and that Slovenian taxpayers were being rehabilitated and that future generations would be restored. So these foreign currencies didn't come to Slovenia. But if they have come, let someone tell you where they are or what they've been spent on. What I want to know is why the government didn't react more decisively. [[...]] [[Pisk.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have five minutes to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u17	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Janša! I answered this question as Prime Minister at a press conference about 10 days ago. This may not have received an appropriate response in the media, since it was probably covered at the time with other topics, particularly with questions about relations with Croatia. However, this is also a welcome opportunity for me to be able to express my views, my views and, of course, the government's views on this issue. We have been discussing the issue of old foreign exchange deposits from the financial, monetary system of the former country practically since independence and are trying to find a solution. Slovenia has already taken a clear position at the outset, as it has also confirmed by the Constitutional Law of 1994, namely that it is a matter of success, a question that is being resolved within the framework of the success of the former State and that Slovenia has assumed those obligations or guarantees for those foreign exchange deposits located in its territory, not for those located in the territory of other republics, the successors of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. We've been consistent in this position all these years. At that time, the Constitutional Law stipulated that this issue was being resolved in the framework of success and that there could be solutions, or even in the framework of some of the successful treaties, but it did not foresee anything else. Nothing to justify taking over, unilaterally assuming these obligations by Slovenia. We have repeatedly reasoned that it is not the responsibility of the Republic of Slovenia for foreign exchange deposits in Zagreb or Sarajevo or in Skopje, for the branches of the former Ljubljana Bank, that the Federation guaranteed these foreign exchange deposits, the then Yugoslav Federation. And that all these banks include the National Bank of Yugoslavia as an entity in all mutual obligations under this Title and that, of course, it is not possible to resolve these issues either through the unilateral actions of one republic or through bilateral agreements between two, but in the context of success. In short, within the framework of success, where all the successors of the former Federation participate. In recent times, pressure from some of these successor countries has increased, the pressure on Slovenia to assume these obligations, based on the fact that they were formally branches of the Ljubljana Bank, from the fact that Slovenia is in a better economic situation and probably assuming that they could force a more favourable solution with some political pressure than would be purely professional, legal solution on the basis of legal facts on the day of independence. We have been prepared all the time and we have also placed on the table all the numbers in this title, we have kept repeating that these foreign currency that was collected in these branches were not spent in Slovenia, but that these branches were operating in the republics where they had their seats and placed their funds there. And, of course, it would be inappropriate to expect that the Republic of Slovenia will then assume its own obligations for something it has not guaranteed and for something that has not been used for its needs in its territory. Nothing has changed in this position. The first round of successful negotiations took place in Basel under the direction of the Bank [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u18	Time's up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u19	Well, let me finish this sentence. This first round has failed, but Slovenia is ready to continue with the next round and we will continue to look for solutions in the framework of successful negotiations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much. As part of this meeting, we will continue to leave, so we have agreed, to allow the sentence to be completed. At the next meeting, the right of a Member to complete the thought will also cease with the passing of time. That is how we agreed when we discussed how we would conduct the meeting in the lead. My friend Janš wants a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u21	Well, first of all, I welcome this rule of yours that you've just explained. But I guess that didn't apply to me because you broke my sentence. But it doesn't matter. I'd like to say...
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u22	Mr. Janša, when did I interrupt? You're done. Just enough to clear up. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u23	You turned off the microphone. I'm done, but you didn't hear me. I would like to give the Prime Minister an opportunity to repeat the practical first question, to answer me, because I have not. What he said earlier also said at a press conference, which had only happened, I think about 40 days after the president of the country in Sarajevo promised Slovenia to return it. In short, my question is: Why has the government not reacted more decisively if the view is as it has now been explained? And are you aware in the government that such positions of the highest, highest, highest representatives of the Slovenian state weaken our negotiating positions?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr President, not more than three minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u25	Thank you. Well, the government and the Prime Minister can, of course, be responsible for their views and interpret them accordingly. We cannot answer or interpret the views of others. However, as I have already said, we have made our position clear, and I have also written to the President of the country in response to his letter of this kind and have presented him with similar arguments as I have now given you in reply. In short, Slovenia continues to seek a solution to this problem, because we are aware that this is some burden in our relations with the republics, the successors of the former Yugoslavia, but we want to find in this a legally correct solution, a just solution and we cannot and we do not have any formal basis to assume obligations that we have not caused, which in fact do not have any legal or substantive basis for being taken over by the Republic of Slovenia. And at this point, we're defending our country's interests in the best possible way. I hope that the next round of negotiations in the framework of success, within the framework of the Basel mutual settlement bank, will produce more results and that this chapter, which has been burdening each other for quite some time, could only be successfully concluded. It is clear, however, that different views from those I have told you, and in particular during the negotiation phase are, of course, more harmful than they are to the interests of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. My colleague Igor Štemberger will ask the following question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. Honourable Prime Minister, Ministers and Ministers, as well as other government representatives, colleagues and fellow Members! The pension reform, which began in 1996 with the preparation of the White Paper, somehow ended with the adoption of a compromise bill, which has been amended three times by now. The White Paper proposed certain solutions to the pension system, which were exempted in the adopted law and were most relevant to improving the social situation of the middle and younger generation. This was also clearly highlighted in the public debate on pension reform, when youth and student organisations mostly supported proposals in the White Paper. Above all, there was visible support for the introduction of a three-pillar pension system. The disappointment and resentment of the young and the middle generation were, when they realized that the government was still not ready to solve the current and future problems, in the end there was a great deal. And let us not forget, the very optimistic and bright future of young people should be the developmental priority of the government, both current and future. As we can see from past budgets, the share of transfers to PPIZ has increased over the years and, as is foreseen, this share will not decrease in the future or remain at about the same level, that is about 16% of the expenditure from the budget. From this we can conclude that the state has a somehow inadequate pension system. The state has a pension system that is chronically lacking in money and needs a large sum from the budget each year to guarantee existing pension insurance rights. In the Young Slovenia Party, of course, we do not oppose the existing rights of the pension system, because today's pensioners deserve them; even more so, with their not very large pensions they also help young people. However, the fact is that the pension system is becoming an ever-increasing glass of economic development, the government is increasingly spending more and more budgetary money on the functioning of the pension system, instead of spending that money on more development projects, thus allowing more economic growth and thus more money on the pension system. The solutions proposed by the government cannot always be just an increase in the retirement age, as is now the case. The age has an upper limit that we can't cross. We believe that this limit has already been reached and that different solutions should be taken care of. It is very important that we carry out further reform of the pension system before entering the European Union, because I think it will be more difficult to do so. On that basis, I ask you: When do you intend to proceed somehow with the reform of pension and disability insurance in terms of the introduction and implementation of the second capital pillar of pension insurance, as known by the Member States of the European Union? [[...]] [[End warning sign]] . This is seen as the only possible solution to the pension system problem that would reduce at the same time [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u28	Finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u29	the transfer from the budget and allow higher pensions to be made in the future. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u30	Thank you, fellow Stemberger. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u31	Thank you. Your Honor! The government estimates that a very important step in finding a balanced solution in Slovenia's development model has been taken with the pension reform we implemented since the beginning of 2000. This is a very complex issue that is present in most European countries. Many members of the European Union have not so far found any better solutions than we have found. We estimate that the introduction of the second pillar of pension reform is also relatively successful, that it includes about 150,000 active citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which is about 20% of the active population, that given the relatively short period of time it is large, that this is a relatively good pace of implementation of this reform and this pillar. In parallel with the analysis of the functioning of this system, what we have done in 2001 and have prepared and implemented appropriate corrections, we will, of course, also follow this issue in the coming years and respond accordingly. But there is no need for us to do this before we enter the European Union. The European Union and some of its members, not all of them, but, in particular, some, are, of course, facing the issue, the problem of ageing, with ever-increasing pension burdens. We will probably continue to look for the best possible solutions in its context, along with others. I'd like to ask if Minister Dimovski will complete it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u32	The Minister will complete your answer. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u33	Thank you very much. In fact, only a few specific figures would be added to what the Prime Minister said as regards additional pension insurance. The information itself, which has also been prepared in the Economic and Social Council this year, has addressed all these aspects that you, honourable Member, have asked. The fact is that, above all, the issue of the rate of introduction of additional pension insurance was raised, most importantly by the amendment, certain amendments to the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, which were implemented at the end of 2001, which increased the number of inclusions by about 80% this year. In our view, therefore, the government's direction regarding additional tax exemptions for the second pension pillar was justified. We expect, according to some predictions, that by the end of this year, as long as the second pension pillar will also include the public sector, this figure from the current 150,000 will somehow reach 200,000. Compared to individual selected countries, such as Germany and the Czech Republic, this level of integration is significantly faster than the Czech Republic had, or more like, Germany. In our opinion, two questions were raised. Let me put it another way. First, integration, in particular in the labour intensive sectors where we are intensively searching with the Securities Market Agency for ways or individual instruments that may also enable the involvement of insurance undertakings from these sectors from the labour intensive sectors in supplementary pension insurance. And secondly, the issue of control. In our view, this has become a very important point. Together with the Bank of Slovenia, the Securities Market Agency and some others, such as the Insurance Supervisory Agency, we are trying to simplify the control procedures and we expect to come up with appropriate solutions in the short term with the help of experts. We do not claim that, of course, there is no adequate control at this time. Here I can say that, but it makes sense that, in terms of simplifying individual procedures, we are also working in some professional direction in this area.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your response, colleague Stemberger? No, no, no. Does he? Yeah. Please. Two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u35	Thank you. With regard to what has been said, he could also have touched pension vouchers. The introduction of pensions is one of the possible solutions to the pension system, but the number of pensions that an individual can have is now too small and this does not represent a large enough pension pension. That's why I want to know: Does the government believe that it is necessary to issue additional new pension vouchers, thereby allowing for a greater replacement of the certificates lodged in pedagogues for pension vouchers? I think it would be absolutely necessary for the government to pay more attention, more funds to promote pensions, because especially the younger and middle generation do not know that there is any such thing at all, let alone how it works. This could lead to good pensions for those who are now well informed in the future. So I ask the Prime Minister: How does the government feel about such an improvement in the pension system?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u36	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u37	They are preparing this law at the Ministry of Finance, and I would like to ask Minister Rob to take a look at it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Please, Your Honor, Minister Rob, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u39	As you know, the honourable Member, as far as this law is concerned, there have been some attempts to complement it accordingly. And as I am aware, a proposal for amendments to this law is now being prepared in the part concerning the concentration of pension vouchers from 10,000 to 30,000. It's a matter of procedure. And in this part we have already held an extensive discussion in the National Assembly. We have specifically warned that in the part where disproportionate concentration of these vouchers would occur, we do not see a special sense of increasing the number of vouchers, but in the part where this actually represents an opportunity for greater pension and greater security for old age, it makes sense. By assessing that this proposal is now relatively compromiseable and that it can also be accepted. Of course, long-term pension vouchers themselves cannot solve the problem of supplementary pension insurance. It is one of the mechanisms used in the past to take part of the certificates and the property that would otherwise go to peds, to authorised investment companies, to pension companies and to redirect. Work was successful, and in this part, vouchers were issued. And, of course, it is now our common concern to make it possible for the corresponding pensions and pensions to be paid from this title. The gross of the project relating to supplementary pension insurance, however, is one of the better arrangements in Europe, with very large tax incentives that have encouraged this very large additional insurance, in the part that the Prime Minister and the Minister of Labour spoke about. And I hope that we will succeed in the public sector as well, and that we will ultimately achieve what we want in supplementary pension insurance, that we will allow the largest work or the majority of employees in Slovenia additional pension insurance, and also that we will be able to take further steps towards pension reform in the coming years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u40	Thank you very much. A third question for the Prime Minister will be raised by colleague Bajuk. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u41	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Prime Minister! In 1992, all citizens received home ownership certificates with your signature and wishes to become real and not imaginary owners of former social enterprises. Since a million 300,000 citizens did not have an objective opportunity to use the certificates directly by investing in individual companies, they were entrusted to authorised investment companies, pids. Governments under your leadership have ensured that pids share the risk of their investments and manage their capital effectively in the long term, following the example of investment funds in developed market economies. Everything else has happened, and this has happened to most uneducated citizens, small investors. This continues at an immeasurable rate. With the help of independent, so-called independent media, small shareholders are disguised by the fact that your current coalition has sent a bill to the National Assembly that will allow the administrations and large pid shareholders to collect the remaining shares at fair prices as quickly as possible and thus round up the secret social capital concentration strategy. This will be in sharp contrast to what you promised in 1992 and 1994 with the legislation then adopted. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you to answer the question before the public: Why did you allow another wild privatisation to transform the pids, or more specifically, why did you allow DZU administrations to organise a gray market and buy certificates or shares from uneducated citizens by concluding so-called future contracts, and on average by 7% of their book value? To this day, why do you allow the management rights of small shareholders of pids to be acquired by the administrations of the DSU through the powers they send to sign to uneducated citizens? Why did you decide in 1999 by bypassing the law, the law on the first pension fund and the transformation of the pids, that pids could be transformed into ordinary stock companies, which are also formally not under the supervision of the regulator and supervisor of the capital market? And finally: Why didn't you want to stop the process of pid transformation in June this year when the Coalition of Slovenia proposed in this National Assembly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u42	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u43	Thank you. Your Honor! The privatisation process is a difficult process in all countries where it has been followed by changes. So at the turn of the eighties in the 1990s, we either went into a process that is, in fact, unique in history when the best solution for privatization or redistribution was to be found in such a large extent by then state or social property. Various patterns, different paths have been sought, and when international analysts today assess different models of privatisation, they find that no one was ideal, first and secondly, they find that probably no one could have been ideal and that we only have slightly better, slightly worse models in view of the effects they have caused in different countries. And in these international comparisons, the Slovenian privatisation model is assessed earlier than a good one than to be bad. In short, better than most other transition countries and citizens and small shareholders are in spite of everything, I can make such an assessment, better carried out than in other transition countries. In all these years, the state has tried to find the best solutions to establish such institutions and ultimately to develop such a financial market in order to ensure that there are some right relationships and also the right and right transactions between all entities. Of course, such searches are not always successful in the first step, and sometimes practice shows that they need to be improved. And it is understandable that if we move from a completely different system, a socialist system, a social property to a capital system and a tradition that was established elsewhere over the centuries, it had to be established with us in a few years. If we have all this in mind, I think that we can more closely join those evaluators who are doing this with a cold head and objectively on an international scale and who are finding that our privatisation model was not bad or at least it was not worse than those in other countries. We are also now trying to improve the solutions, including the questions you have been talking about. In preparation, there is a proposal for legal solutions to eliminate some of the anomalies that we have identified ourselves and that we want to eliminate in such a way that the interests of small shareholders are as secure as possible. If there's still time, I'd like to ask Minister Robb [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u44	Not more than a minute and 50 seconds. Please, Mr. Minister, proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u45	who has prepared this law. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u46	So, according to my assessment, you are relatively well aware of what was being prepared, and you have also been relatively actively involved in the discussion. After all, the parental committee has already met on the subject of this law and has been postponed. And, of course, we are now carefully examining all those comments that have been made by all parties, and I hope that, at the end of the day, we will find appropriate and acceptable solutions together within the framework of the Home Committee, in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Of course, there are some problems that need to be addressed. On the one hand, this legislation needs to be brought closer and harmonised by those in the European Union, and in this part it concerns mutual funds. On the other hand, it is the transformation of the pid into the so-called investment companies of the insider also for financial holding companies in the part where new or already created companies have already been created. And in this part of course we will try, hopefully together, to find the right solutions. As far as investment firms are concerned, thinking on the basis of the comments that have been made is now going in this direction in order to bring the pids closer to mutual funds in time. The mutual funds are those that best meet the criteria of transparency, security and, of course, the free entry and departure of individual shareholders from each fund. But in the part where financial holding companies and equity companies are involved, we have an objective problem. On the one hand, certain companies have been created, [[...]] [[End warning sign]] On the other hand, there are some [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u47	Finish the thought, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u48	The structure of these papers is such that practically 50% of the shares held are non-marketable. I'll explain if I have to.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like to complete the question, Comrade Dr. Bajuk? [[Yes, you do.]] Please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the President, on the basis of these arrangements: What is the final ownership structure of Slovenian companies that your coalition realizes or your coalitions? Otherwise, because in the economic development strategy - which we received in the National Assembly and is in the Rapporteur of January this month - we read that Slovenia needs - and these are the words of your government - the real owners. This is not supposed to be internal shareholders or institutional shareholders. So who are the real owners of former joint ventures? Finally, I would like to ask you, Mr President: Do you agree with Dr. Neven Borak's opinion that you have recently appointed him as head of a foreign capital control agency, which, according to our media reports, I quote here, "the consolidation of ownership cannot take place without theft"? In your opinion, can an official who makes such statements perform such a function? Do you agree with such an approach? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Please, Prime Minister, two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u52	Your Honor. What kind of ownership structure do we want - of course as effective as possible! I think that if I say my opinion on this: of course, even as balanced as possible, among the different owners, types of owners, of course, with the presence, a great deal of the presence of small shareholders. However, it is, of course, difficult to make absolute rules and say: such ownership structure is optimal, it should be. It is established through life, through operation, through practice, even through the success or failure of individual forms. And so it also happened in the developed market economies, where it still happens, despite the great tradition, the great experiences that, for example, the interests of small shareholders are not damaged - in large American corporations, where we have recently seen the fractures of large corporations, where we have seen the distortion of shareholders, where we have seen losses, many losses on the stock exchange, where millions of small shareholders have been involved or have been affected. In short, even the most developed economy in the world, with the most tradition, has not yet found definitive and absolute answers to these questions and, of course, has not found any mechanisms to prevent any abuse. Of course, we are working towards this and we must continue to do so, but the answer to this is that, of course, we can experience, practice, correct certain problems when they occur, or weaknesses in the legislation, or find that the system allows for abuses at some point. And this is where our search for these new marriage solutions, as Minister Rop has been talking about. And I hope that in doing so, together with you - with the opposition - we will find the best possible solutions. As for the statements made by individual officials, I cannot comment, I do not want to comment, nor do I know the context of such statements. But I told you my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can't set it up. Procedurally, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. On the basis of Article 246 in the second paragraph, I would like to request and formulate the following proposal. Because, on such important issues as the ownership structure of the Slovenian economy, which is marked by the final transformation of the pids, and it is also strongly linked to the development of the Slovenian capital market, I am not satisfied with your reply, Mr President-respected; and because of - now the true national interests - I must not be satisfied. I propose that, on the basis of Rule 246(2) of the Rules of Procedure, the following decision be put to the vote: "The National Assembly shall hold a debate at the next meeting of the National Assembly on the replies of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the questions raised by the Head of the New Slovenia Group." Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. Today we have consulted before the opening of the meeting on how we will act in cases where such an initiative will be given, and we have decided to propose that the initiative be decided tomorrow in the first vote. The Member who has asked the question may request, in accordance with paragraph 246 of the Rules of Procedure, that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the reply of the Prime Minister, Minister or Secretary-General - this can happen now or in the course of today's meeting. We thought that we would therefore propose to the National Assembly to decide on this tomorrow in the first vote. This is a decision we've made. [[The ad from the bench.]] This is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please, Comrade Dr. Bajuk, can I ask you a question? Please. I am interpreting the rules of procedure during the meeting, and we have discussed this rule with the Vice-President and the Vice-President today. Please. Even as we have discussed these issues several times in recent days, we have decided that the President - this is his business competence - will interpret the Rules of Procedure. If we assess that we could interpret differently and that it would be pragmatically better, we will change the decision next time. Today, I insist on my decision to decide on your proposal, Comrade Dr. Bayuk, tomorrow in the first vote. You have no say, Comrade Jerovšek. Next, I give the floor to my colleague, Franz Kangler, who, under the new Rules of Procedure, will raise a question as a representative of the coalition to the Prime Minister. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I beg for peace in the hall, Mr. Kangler. I have given my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u56	Dear Prime Minister, distinguished members of the government! Members of the parliamentary commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services, as well as members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, have recently noted that several affairs have been committed in political life, none of which have received judicial epilogues or clarifications. It is also noted that in recent times many politicians have been injured or injured by various crimes. Let me mention a few cases. In the merger of two parliamentary parties, the protected persons, the Vice-President of the Government, shall steal the audio. Just before the Congress of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, they steal the Finance Minister of Audio. In the previous term, we record quite a few burglaries in the Member's apartments. In this mandate, it is noted that a protected person, the President of Parliament, has been hacked into the apartment. We note that the apartment was raided by the Minister of Transport. We note that a number of Members have been hacked into the apartment, which, in this mandate, holds the mandate of a Member of Parliament. Some of the events in this house are also such that they may have elements of the crime, but the police have so far not clarified any event in this area. In monitoring the activities and activities of certain services responsible for their work directly to the Government and to the Prime Minister, the parliamentary commission for the supervision of security and intelligence services has encountered a serious violation of the Law on Owl, in accordance with Article 49, paragraph 2 and paragraph 4 since the parliamentary commission has been prevented from continuously monitoring in accordance with Article 49 of the Law on Owl. I therefore ask: Will the government - and you as Prime Minister - deal with the complication and prevention of the act of the Parliamentary Commission by the Owl and summarize the measures? Are all legal instruments ensured that information collected in these services would not be misused for political accounting?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u58	Dear Member, the cases that you have cited, as you say, in previous years, are crimes that are happening and which, in accordance with the laws, are trying to sanction our police and, of course, to act. I cannot explain to you their own actions, the actions of the police in these specific cases, because, of course, I am also not informed about this and, as Prime Minister, I have neither the responsibility nor the authority to give or any input to the police in such specific cases. And so this is not about the functioning of the security intelligence service that you were talking about. I have already said in this National Assembly that I appreciate that the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Service is working very well and that it works properly. According to my knowledge, it has successfully integrated into international activities, the fight against terrorism, the assessment of various crisis situations in the world, and in this regard gives the proper assessments and information to the government it uses in its operations. So far, I must conclude that I have not detected as Prime Minister the slightest sign that the Slovenian Intelligence Service would operate in any other way or other than the law. Its activity is aimed exclusively at protecting the national interests of this country vis-à-vis the outside world and, in any event, does not deal with internal situations; nothing that could be referred to as internal policy. And I notice that sometimes there are certain strains between the individual members of the committee to oversee these activities and between the agency itself. According to my assessment, it is likely that greater cooperation and also understanding of the operation and objectives, including the Slovenian Intelligence and Security Services, in this very complex and dangerous world, should be established, but we expect all of us to carry out the control that is prescribed by law, in accordance with the law. But sometimes we get the impression that it would be a service that acts against our country - from your performances - rather than a service that acts in the interests of our country and protects national interests against the many external interests that threaten our country. That's how I heard about the last complication of control. As I was informed, there was some misunderstanding, including a variety of interpretations of the rules in this case, which were to be clarified jointly in the National Assembly and, of course, laid down more precisely. I think this can be done in a peaceful and constructive way, without causing major media events, before really finding out what's really going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u59	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My friend Kangler would like to ask you an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u60	Dear Mr. President. The moral, ethical and legal principles of parliamentary democracy are that the Security and Intelligence Supervisory Commission has been established by a decree of the National Assembly and is acting on the basis of a newly adopted Rules of Procedure. And on the legal basis of the Law on Owl, article 49 makes it clear; it says, "The Owl must allow constant supervision of the commission - members of the commission, not individuals. Once again, I would like to point out to the members of the Commission. And this is the view of the entire commission that it found that in this event Owl was in grave breach of the Law on Owl, Article 49, and prevented the continuous supervision of the Commission for the supervision of the intelligence services of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. So I ask you again: Will the government deal with this complication or not? To complement you, the members of the Commission, regardless of the political options to which one belongs, have been prepared and are prepared on this committee to continue to work lawfully, consciously and to respect all those rules and standards concerning each individual. However, if the Director, former director, congratulates some of the operatives of this service on 25 March on preventing the control of the intelligence services of the parliamentary commission, it is, I think, more than clear enough that this issue needs to be addressed to the government, and certainly to inform you, Prime Minister-respected, - given that you are proposing to Director Owl under the Owl Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Would you like to explain your position further, Mr President? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u62	For a little while. Of course, the Commission has its legal powers and tasks to monitor the specific methods that the Slovenian Security and Intelligence Agency can use. These are the instruments and methods that neither the Prime Minister nor the Commission sees. However, I expect that if any of the findings of the Commission on such irregularities as you have now said have happened, these days, last week, I expect that I will be informed of this on a normal official basis by the Commission, probably not through the questions sent, but that we will try to find out in an appropriate way what is really the problem and, even if necessary, to respond to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u63	[[The ad from the bench.]] Please, you don't have a word. These were questions raised by respected colleagues and colleagues to the Prime Minister. What do you want to ask or suggest, Comrade Jerovšek? Please. I ask that this be in accordance with the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u64	Mr President, on the basis of Rule 69 of this Rules of Procedure - I do not refer to any other Rules of Procedure - I find that you have violated my right to raise a procedural question. I find this to be in line with the current state of the spirit in this House. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u65	Comrade Jerovšek [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u66	I'm sorry, I'm going to ask a procedural question and I'm going to explain it to him because I think it's necessary. In fact, I still hope that there are some rules in this House that informal meetings and working groups cannot take decisions or rules that have procedural power that should be adopted by a two-thirds majority in the National Assembly. That's exactly what's been going on in the past few days. The Slovenian Member is in violation of the rights set out in Article 82 of the Constitution, which clearly states that he is not bound by any instructions. You give us instructions that are not adopted in the Rules of Procedure and are not adopted in the National Assembly!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u67	Comrade Jerovšek, can I explain?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u68	The fundamental rights of the Member have been taken! You have sharpened certain parliamentary provisions or business provisions. I want you to answer me. When you mentioned that there have been a number of discussions where you agreed to this and that - what are these many agreements that have the power of the two-thirds majority of the National Assembly on the basis of which you take our fundamental rights in this House? [[...]] What are the working groups? Our rules of procedure, I take it, is completely lifeless, is totalitarian. Look at the Croats! At the moment, Bobette was provoked to the National Assembly. There is no possibility in this national council!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u69	Comrade Jerovšek, please don't make me take your word from you, because I don't want it from you. You have asked a question, and I am pleased and obliged to answer it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u70	I have the right to an explanation in two minutes. I think you're taking my time, as it is in the rules of procedure, and I won't allow myself to take it. In fact, it started to get scary. Unfortunately, you were the first to break this rule when you did not give me your word in accordance with Article 69. And these solutions, in this Rules of Procedure as regards Parliament's initiative, are not a government statement and a general debate, to which I have forever warned. And this is a disgrace to this national assembly and democracy. Indeed, the authors of this Rules of Procedure - some of the authors spoke more than 10 years ago in political talks about the authenticity of our revolution, which is still going on. And on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, I believe that it is still going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u71	Comrade Mr Jerovšek! With the same patience as I have listened to you, I ask you to listen to me when I explain to you why I have made this decision. First of all, if this is necessary, let us do it again, in this moment my request which I made on behalf of the President immediately at the beginning of our session applies. I said that it is now the first time that the National Assembly has decided and debated under the new Rules of Procedure and that there may be circumstances in which the President will have to decide what he believes is right in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that this duty also belongs to him. Maybe he'll decide here and there differently than then. We will discuss this, if necessary, even during the sitting alone. Definitely after the sessions and we'll analyze our behavior. I asked for patience, colleagues and colleagues, in such ways. None of our actions, including mine before, should be a reason for bias and it wasn't. I have interpreted the Rules of Procedure and Rule 82. Comrade Jerovšek, this is the second paragraph. Paragraph two, so that's paragraph three. Just a second. [[...]] Article 86, second paragraph of Article 86, states: "The President may determine at the beginning of the meeting or during the meeting the time when the votes shall be taken on the individual proposals to be decided." Can I finish, Comrade Jerovšek? Comrade Jerovšek, will you let me explain to the end? Today, for the last time -- not the last time -- we have discussed when we will give the opportunity to vote on the issue or on the proposal if this 2nd item of the agenda will take place. This morning, I consulted with my colleague, the Vice-President, and the two Vice-Presidents, and decided that, or whoever holds the meeting behind me, I would decide, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 86, that we will do so tomorrow, before the other votes. That's what I decided. It is therefore: for the first time, strict respect for the rules of procedure. This power shall be vested in the President or the President. I explained to you why we decided to do so. Today, during this meeting, or on the 2nd item of the agenda, another initiative might be expected. We will vote on all of these tomorrow. That's my explanation, Comrade Jerovšek. Once again, let me tell you that neither I nor my colleagues do not want to hold a meeting in such a way that anyone would think that, by violating the Rules of Procedure, we have denied him his rights. I give you my word. I propose that we do not hold a debate, Comrade Jerovšek, I give the floor to my fellow Members and colleagues who have been reported for their questions. That's a fellow magician first. Andrej Vizjak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. My question will address one of the most pressing problems, this is the problem of unemployment in the Republic of Slovenia, and how to solve this problem as far as the government is concerned. Unemployment is certainly a very complex problem, which does not tandem with any ministry individually and directly, but it is, I would say, a problem that needs to be tackled fairly interdisciplinaryly and from all angles of view, so this time I am primarily asking the Ministry of the Economy or the Minister of the Economy. This is an extremely negative trend, as the number of unemployed reported in June declined this year, but with one big difference: the seasonal bottom of last year was lower than this year. In short, it is true that unemployment is moving along a curve that is seasonal, but this year's trends suggest a renewed rise in unemployment. And this is one of the most critical findings of this. Another matter that seems very important to me is that, in particular, there are problems in the labour-intensive sectors and we are also witnessing many interventions, both media and trade unions, in recent days. Let me mention that in the first five months, the textile industry, among other things, was doing much worse than during the same period last year. Let me mention the problem of the textile industry in the area of Dolenjska, White Krajina and Posavje, which was one of the most powerful of several years ago and has lost more than half of its employees in the past decade. Now the second cycle of forgiveness has begun, in which there will be a brief cca. 750 jobs. It is similar with the textile industry elsewhere: in Prekmurje we know the cases of Mura, to mention the problem of footwear industry in Pek in Tržič. That is why I am asking the Ministry of the Economy the next question! What concrete measures does the Ministry intend to mitigate the problems of the labour-intensive industries, in particular the textile industry and the leather-processing industry, in terms of maintaining jobs in these sectors as well as their restructuring? And another question. Will financial aid be granted to other companies in Slovenia that are in difficulty, as promised by the Prime Minister Mura? In short, we are also dealing with some phenomenon from past years that is no longer sustainable. This is to walk with senior government representatives through businesses and to promise assistance, while at the same time it is a big question whether, in accordance with Slovenian legislation, it is possible to provide this assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. First, I invite Minister Dimovski to answer this question. The secretary apologized. Otherwise, let me make it clear: I'll be careful about the time that belongs to you. Mr Minister, if there is no answer to the question from the Member of Parliament at today's meeting, the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General must provide him with a written reply within 30 days, which will be published in the bulletin. Now you have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The question, as I understand it, was not directly put to us by the Ministry of Labour and will probably follow the Ministry of the Economy's written reply, because, as you correctly stated in your question, the very high degree of correlation between economic growth and unemployment. Let me say as far as unemployment is concerned, there is certainly a question to be raised: that we are one of the few economies where unemployment has not increased significantly. It's increased by about 1%, so we have some movement about the registered unemployment rate, the last data is 102,000 -- we have, I'd say, some relative stability. However, with regard to unemployment following the classification of an international organisation of work published every quarter, the latter figure is even lower than in the first quarter for the second quarter, which is approximately 5.9%, or 5,9. Now, if you'll excuse me, President, I'd just like to briefly answer the question raised: what is directly within the competence of the Ministry of Labour and refers in fact to individual unemployment programmes for the textile industry. Two reasons for the difficult situation in the textile industry are: the first is economic activity or economic growth and the second is the migration of production practically from Europe to Asia due to extremely low labour costs and because the labour-intensive industries have the highest labour costs, of course this move towards Europe - Asia in the largest part. Nevertheless, there are also some results within the industry that are the results of technological investments. According to some data, approximately one billion sitt will be allocated to the textile industry for technological modernisation, following the various tenders mainly prepared by the Ministry of Economy. However, as far as solving the problem of the unemployed is concerned, we have concrete data that we are now coordinating definitively with the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Unions, with the "Tupis" as the main representative union, where we have relatively accurate data for 2003. In this case, we have foreseen for 2003: from data showing a reduction in the number of employees in the industry, it is clear that around 700 out of 1,700 in the following year, to the extent that the state of employment is to be reduced, it is on the basis of pensions, of which regular, disabled and premature. Of course, we can also deliver this information to you because the list is relatively guest. However, virtually everyone else will be included in the active employment policy, about 1,100 employees. Of this we have foreseen - in addition to these programmes already available this year, for which we have already allocated some additional funds - some new programmes which, in my view or in our view, will allow for normal or retraining on the one hand, and, of course, some possibility of integration into other programmes. If that's your wish, they'll deliver it to you. However, first of all, the question that I think is important - or two questions: as regards employees in individual factories or companies in the textile industry, of course, is the question of retraining what is crucial, especially for those who are losing their jobs. For the practical reduction of the production process is, of course, a business decision to say immediately. I hope that virtually everyone who will be involved in these programmes, which we have jointly prepared with the trade unions and the Economic Chamber, will in fact be quite clear about its fate. At the same time, let me mention the approximate amount of funds to be allocated from these addresses that I have said; and this is about 1.4 billion for 2003. These are estimates based on figures obtained from some surveys in companies. This is how I calculate that the numbers are relatively accurate, but of course about accuracy - accuracy, of course, can nevertheless be relative. However, I agree with you, of course, when you say in your question: the issue of economic growth is crucial here. The question of investment - the question of sectoral allocation of investments, and here I expect the Ministry of Economy to give more concrete answers than I have at the moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Are you asking me to complete the answer? Please, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Look, that's the key problem. I did not raise this issue on purpose, even though it is part of the Ministry of Labour's work area, I have asked the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, because I know that there is a role here for the Ministry, in particular active policy, that it is the key and most important role here in opening up and providing new jobs and restructuring the Slovenian economy. That is why I have asked the Minister of Economy this question, and I would also like a written answer from her, although I must say, President, that I am disappointed. I have asked my question on Friday, in accordance with the agreement and in anticipation of having, of course, an oral answer here. And even though today is four days or three days after that, this answer is not - not an adequate secretary of state. I don't think that's quite right. And here our rules of procedure have done nothing, obviously. In short, why did I ask that question? Above all, it's because we're always grappling with problems. And now there is also the issue of Slovenian national interest and whose ownership companies should be. And this is where I'm interested. That's my complementary question. Is the link between ownership and the arrival of foreign investors in Slovenia linked to the efficiency of these companies? And here in the textile industry we have missed a lot, because it would certainly be possible to encourage foreign investment and the arrival of foreign capital to keep a wide range of jobs at home, but not to speak now to the labour-intensive industries, to move to places where the labour force is cheaper and will employ our companies foreign labour. In short, the lack of a strategy, particularly at the Ministry of the Economy, in terms of opening up new jobs is more than obvious. However, I hope that this is not only a matter of paper but also more money in the future in terms of opening up new jobs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u77	Thank you very much. This was a request for an additional reply. As I understand it, Minister Dimovski will not give an answer. She is obliged to give it to the Minister in writing. Let me say that the Minister and the President of the Republic are on a business trip. And the Secretary of State, Comrade Mag. Visjak, do not answer your questions at this point in the agenda. I give my next word to my colleague Bogomir Vnučec, and he will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable members of the government! My question is addressed to the esteemed Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Dimitri Rupl. This year, on the basis of mathematical legality, it is a very wide-ranging election year, so that in addition to the mayoral elections, we have elections for municipal councillors, local and fourth communities, including elections for state councillors and, of course, for the president of the state. The fact that elections for the President of the State are also in place this year also promises a higher electoral participation. However, we have been witnesses in recent years - we have also been able to get to know this a few months ago in the National Assembly - that our citizens and citizens living around the world have a number of problems when they want to express their civil rights and also contribute themselves to the selection of candidates or elected representatives of our country. So - there is no real information that votes are missing other problems. Therefore, of course, I wonder: Has the foreign ministry launched appropriate measures, instructed diplomatic-consular representations that these elections, depending on the breadth or the crowd that will be held this year, will properly inform our citizens around the world and allow citizens to express their civil rights? I also wonder: Does the reports of these diplomatic-consular representations indicate that the shortcomings we have witnessed so far will still be fully addressed as little as possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Mr. Foreign Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u80	Your Honor! So, I would like to say that voters who are registered in the electoral directory have already received or receive a notice on their addresses by these days with information on the possibilities of participating in the elections. Voters with permanent residence abroad will normally vote at the diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia in each country and will present themselves with a personal document and will receive electoral material in the electorate and give a voice. If they are not able to vote at the diplomatic-consular office, but want to vote by post in Slovenia, they must, in accordance with the instructions they received, report it to the Republic Election Commission by 11 October. In accordance with an agreement with the Republican Electoral Commission, the elections will take place at diplomatic and consular offices in those countries where the largest nationals of the Republic of Slovenia reside. In this regard, the Republic Election Commission has also issued a notice to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who are temporarily or permanently residing abroad. These representations include Buenos Aires, Canberra, Vienna, Celovec, Brussels, Sarajevo, Prague, Podgorica, Helsinki, Copenhagen, Paris, Athens, Zagreb, Rome, including the Holy Headquarters, Trieste, Tel Aviv, Tokyo, Ottawa, Toronto, Budapest, Skopje, Warsaw, Moscow, Bratislava, Madrid, Stockholm, Bern, London, Washington, New York, Cleveland, Berlin, Muenchen, Belgrade. So together 34 diplomatic consulates. Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with temporary residence abroad will also be allowed to vote on these representations if this is communicated to the Republic Election Commission by 11 October, in accordance with instructions. Between September 11th and October 12th, an electoral directory is being decommissioned at competent diplomatic-consular offices. Nationals of the Republic of Slovenia may review electoral directories and, in the case of insufficient or inaccurate data, require correction. And that. The consular sector of our ministry and the Office for Slovenians in place and around the world are paying great attention to informing both diplomatic and consular representatives and Slovenian societies and organisations around the world. The Office also provided information on the possibility of participating in the elections to the emigrants and locals - say: Born Gruda, Our Slovenia - and in particular recommended to electoral beneficiaries around the world to check their data in the electoral registers so that there would be no misunderstandings and problems, as has been the case in recent years. With regard to the elections for the President of the Republic, our ministry, both the consular sector and the Slovenian office around the world, has been working successfully with the Republic Election Commission and with the competent services of the Ministry of the Interior since the adoption of the law on the register of electoral rights, so that our diplomatic and consular offices are also currently instructed on electoral matters relating to elections abroad. Once again, information on the elections is available in the official publication and also on the websites of the Republic Election Commission and on the websites of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Office of Slovenians in place and around the world, and this information is not difficult to obtain. I believe there have been some problems in the past. This year, based on past experience, we are trying to solve these problems. I assure you that we are closely monitoring these elections, preparing them for them, and monitoring them until they are completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Complementary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u82	Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary-General. I also addressed this issue for this reason, because this information is very important between diplomatic and consular offices which are of course in a particular country and, of course, the foreign ministry, because I am also interested in: Is it true that there are some derogations, especially in countries where the concentration of citizens or those who have electoral rights, particularly in Australia, Canada and Argentina, that there are differences between electoral directories and those who have electoral rights? You've already answered something. It is only possible to appeal, or if you can further tell me about these inter-ministerial coordinations between the internal ministry and the foreign ministry, that these citizens will be allowed to express their electoral rights in due time, that they will not then come to unnecessary problems in the elections themselves, or that this is also a reflection of our country's attitude towards citizens outside the borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u83	Would you like to explain further, Mr. Foreign Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much. That's what I'm trying to say. Surely there is a difference between the number of electoral beneficiaries and the number of beneficiaries who make use of this right. Now I am thinking, I know a random number for Cleveland, there is a large number of Slovenians and also a large number of our citizens, but only 240 of those who had this right participated in the previous elections, so it is possible by additional information, and in particular by dispersing and dispersing the various fears that exist during our evictions, this number - namely the number of voters - can actually be raised and/or increased. From our ministry we have done everything that was formally possible, what could be done in terms of letters, information and so on. However, I think that a public debate with us or perhaps, what I do know, but there is an article or some media presentation that could help people who have the right to vote get rid of the fear that they may be hampered by this right. I am aware of this breakthrough, and I believe that the results we have learned from previous years and have not been, so to speak, brilliant that they can be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary-General. The Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, as well as the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, will be asked a question by a fellow Member, Maria Pozsonec. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u86	Thank you very much. All in attendance, Your Honor. I ask Minister Booth: In what time will he do something about the fact that farmers should not seek their rights on the road? For the last farmer's point revealed some of the symptoms in our agriculture and was a great disgrace to our agricultural policy. These symptoms are, however, symptoms of incompetence, hopelessness, lawlessness and threat to farmers. In agriculture, conditions are not such that a farmer is able to support himself and his family. He has to plead daily for the fines and thus, as a man and producer, is in an extremely humble and demeaning position. When will the profession start working on alternative production options? When will the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government help to secure agricultural products instead of later paying high amounts for damage caused by basic accidents? When will the state allow for painless self-restructuring? When will the agricultural land fund play its role in the restructuring of agriculture? Without these measures, huge amounts of money are channelled into consumption and survival alone, not into development and new investments that would create quality jobs in agriculture. The agony is thus only prolonged and there are no quality development components. I propose to Minister Booth and Minister Kopač that they review once again the work of the State Commission for Drought, because the work has not been done properly and properly. The conclusions were not fair, the situation on the ground was not realistically assessed. The actual situation on the ground was quite different from that of the offices in Ljubljana. And if there is a need to amend the law to determine more fairly the damage, I suggest we do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u87	Thank you very much, colleague Pozsonec. Which one of you, Mr. Secretary, will be the first to answer. You, please, mag. Booth, Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Madam Members, for your question. In fact, the issue is extremely complex and broad and refers to most of the activities we are engaged in in in the Slovenian space in this area, while also, of course, dealing with the whole European space, looking for answers to what direction this sector is supposed to be developed in the future. It is undeniable that in Slovenia the agricultural sector met with the real situation of the market after the introduction of the market economy, when we also introduced this element with the introduction of democracy and stopped the planning economy, when everything was easier and when it was decided; when the country was designated, the relationship of what belongs to trade, what belongs to the food industry. Of course, this is no longer the case and cannot be the case, since nowhere in democratic Western societies has this been the case. There, too, farmers were extremely difficult to adapt and still struggle to adapt. And one of the most ideal answers to all these questions, of course, no society has fully given. What we are trying to do in Slovenia is actually to adapt to what Western European agriculture is, this is agriculture in the European Union, to try to resist globalisation and which is why the European budget also pays half of the funds to this sector. With great efforts, great financial commitments, which is likely to be known and will be known in the next few weeks, when the draft budget changes or the draft 2003 budget changes to the 2004 budget will come into the National Assembly - I am talking about these two budgets, which are key to joining the European Union. Here, I would divide it into three parts: one is direct payments. Direct payments in Slovenia are the only payments introduced among all candidates for entry. These are payments per hectare, EKO-0 named. And currently, this year, about 54 percent of what farmers in the European Union receive is at a level. We have already reached an agreement that this amount will be 75% compared to the European Union in 2003 and 100% in 2004. That's exactly what we agreed on today. In this way we allow ourselves the maximum possible bargaining proceeds that can be obtained. What is even more important is that we ensure one rare possibility that we are after a transitional period - we hope that it will be as short as possible when we are members of the European Union - but a net recipient of funds. In short, from this year to 2004, these direct payments will almost double Eco-0. This is what we can do most, and we must not do more in theory, because the ceiling of these payments is in place. When will the profession start working on alternative production options. In fact, this is where the answer can be found: the country has offered an alternative option of support, namely support for agri-environmental programmes, organic co-agricultural farming. For the time being, 40% of the farms are included in the agri-environment programme, but only 2% of the farms are included in organic farming. Of course, organic farming requires high standards, standards, requires high supervision, documents and also a particular form of marketing, because if we pay for ecological support, but the price on the market is then the same, of course, something that makes sense. Certainly, I personally believe that in the agri-environmental programme and in various forms of farms of more environmentally friendly food production, it is possible to look for a certain niche and solution. And even I believe that in Slovenia we should seek some kind of mission or a change of mission of the mission of the agricultural mission in this regard. The fact that agriculture carries out additional, useful or urgent functions for society - these are the maintenance of cultural landscapes and the like - is why in the country we pay for support to so-called areas with limited factors and agri-environmental programmes; while we want to support healthier and more environmentally friendly food. We are paying as much as possible this year at about 6 billion of these payments. But most importantly - and I think we have reached an agreement today that will have to be confirmed by the government and then by the national assembly - that we will be in the year [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u89	Lock up the thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u90	Yeah. In 2004, we will ensure the mandatory participation of the State in the budget as far as possible in the so-called Pillar II. or rural development - co-financing of Brussels; one quarter of us contribute on our own and the rest is expected from there. In the second part, unfortunately, I was unable to answer because it is an extensive response, but I can do it later.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. As I explained earlier, the Rules of Procedure do not allow me to give the floor to Minister Kopač now, five minutes to answer the Government has passed; unless colleague Pozsonec asks a question. There is a request to complete the answer - only in this case will you have this option. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u92	I also talked about the fact that the work of the State Commission was not correct, the conclusions were not just and the farmers were played. So perhaps Mr Kopač, since this committee is in his ministry, would be able to respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u93	Yes, three minutes is available to Minister Kopac to complete the response.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Although the State Commission for Rehabilitation is the Interdepartmental Commission, the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy has only a small proportion of its members, and I can answer your question. In the work of the Commission, it was necessary to take into account that at first we had an extremely large number of applications, almost 50,000 applications had to be examined by the Commission. The problem was that we received inadequate information from the congregations. Data were not transmitted in digital format. The number of applications to supplement applications was extremely high. Such a number that, in the end, they stopped working with applications to supplement their applications and were automatic - or they were willing to simplify things so that they would not even ask the debtors any more. We have introduced to clarify the free telephone line where everyone can get information about their role in particular. We hired a contractor who's been answering this free line all day. However, I think that the most misunderstanding in the entire part of the Commission was based on the provisions relating to the calculation of the average level of injury. Indeed, the verified average injury rate of each agricultural plant is calculated for each geographically rounded area as an average of the verified data on the injury rates of the agricultural plant in the area, but not more than the verified injury rate as established by the intervention laws of previous years, to which people are also most accustomed. In doing so, it is only necessary to say that we have received proposals to amend and complement the consideration of the price of agricultural crops, particularly in maize. The proposal for a supplement was also given for fodder cereals, and this is still in the opinion of the Commission. For the time being, 3 billion 660 million tolars were transferred from this address. So much for a little while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary Digacz. A question for the Prime Minister is asked by his colleague, Zmigo Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Slovenia is approaching the Euro-Atlantic communities. With this approach, we see from day to day a number of business failures, destruction of Slovenian agricultural potential, destruction – deliberate destruction of Slovenian companies and domestically, money throwing through the window. It is now known that we will have to pay some 130 million euros by the first year of our entry into the European Union, but this is only the initial data. We will get a maximum of €70 million back. I ask how it is possible that Slovenia had such poor, incompetent and anti-Slovenian, anti-State-oriented negotiators negotiating such a terrible position for our country! When we enter NATO, we bow to all ends and places. Mr. Rupel barely greeted his spine to walk again, probably having a cosmodist, or else he would remain in a predisposed position because of the worship of Americans in the United States on his last visit.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u97	I'm asking for a respectful tone.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u98	Mr Potočnik did something similar by negotiating with the European Union. We've agreed to everything they've asked of us, and we're not getting anything. The only one who showed a bit of mutiny was Minister Grizold. Everyone else, somehow with half a stupid smile on their faces, walked around and landed and said only: yes, yes, yes. I'm asking. Is it true that Slovenians, when entering such integrations, must choose the worst of the worst or the most expensive of the buyers? Is it true that we must destroy everything that our predecessors have built in our home country, so that 300 people will live perfectly in Brussels in the institutions of the European Union and the Pact? Is it true that we have to endure all of this and with boldness and without the possibility of any opposition to swallow it all together? And is it true that there will be no referendum on the European Union and that there will be no referendum on NATO until all of this is already concrete and impossible to change? I ask: Why and how is the choice of such people, who actually act against Slovenia, against the interests of the Slovenian people?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Let me repeat once again - this is true for all of us - that I believe that, despite our explicit non-compliance with our positions and the Government's behaviour, it is possible to ask a question about this behaviour in a respectful way that we are all obliged to do so. And I warn you, Comrade Jelinčič, you have asked the Prime Minister a question. In accordance with Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, today the Prime Minister is not obliged to answer your question. So you won't get an answer. However, he must provide you with a written answer within 30 days. If you announce today that you insist on an oral response, I will place this question at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the existing Rules of Procedure, which prevents the functioning of parliamentarians in the National Assembly, I will respond to this. To think about it, because exactly in accordance with the rules of procedure, I don't need to answer now and at this point what I'm going to do with this question. After all, this is a very problematic matter, and it is the money we have to pay to the European Union, which is equal to the full budget of the Ministry of Economy - the whole year round. And I think it's too short to just play with it and get too fat. That's why I think we're going to change our minds and see how we deal with this. Otherwise, with regard to non-compliance with the Rules of Procedure: Mr President, you also did not respect it when you allowed the Prime Minister to speak over the deadline set, as well as when Mr Booth spoke over the deadline set for the response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u101	Comrade Jelinčič, I understand that you insist that I place this issue in the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. As far as limiting the Chairman's words is concerned, let me tell you that we have talked a number of times about these things in the context of the implementation of the new Rules of Procedure, because we want to act with impartiality and on equal terms. With regard to the question of when to take the Member's word when his time ran out, we had two points of view. One thing to take away his word as soon as his time ran out, and the other, it took over for this meeting of the National Assembly to enable him to finish his thought and then take away his word. The problem is purely technical. The type of colleagues who, of course, have a concentrated debate on the subject cannot follow so clearly the time spent on the display. In the future, we will therefore find a solution, it is already being sought, a light that will be clear enough and transparent enough, as in other parliaments, to warn the speaker that the time is coming when the thought must end. So we're pragmatic, I didn't have two criteria. Janš's colleague, I'll say, is very correct when he noticed that his time had run out, he interrupted his thought. The president asked for the thought to be over, and I gave him that opportunity. That's what I did with the others who wanted to finish their thought. If they wanted to continue with the sentence, I also interrupted them. This will also be the case with my colleagues and colleagues who will hold the meeting. My colleague Peterle will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with Article 242 I will ask two oral questions, as announced. First, to the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Vlad Dimovska. The Union of Civil Disability Associations of the Wars of Slovenia took the initiative, at the proposal of related alliances from several European countries, to organise the European Union of Civil Disabled Persons of War. Given the weak financial situation of the relationship and given the humanitarian importance and purpose of the project, I ask the Minister if the government could help with this project or if I am taking the initiative to do so. The number of civilians with disabilities of war continues to increase due to only partially executed demining, which has been successfully carried out in some countries - by Slovenia, the initiated project - by an international mine action fund. The question to Minister Kopač concerns the following. On Wednesday we are expected to demolish the municipality of Radovljica, supposedly an illegally built building, a world-renowned and recognized inventor of alternative energy use and an entrepreneur named Franco Stroj, who performs an important part of his research activity in this facility. I wonder what the Ministry's attitude is to this purpose? How many illegal constructions have been found in Dobrec, how many have been demolished, and how many have been legalized? In order to avoid any doubt as to whether this is more about a particular person or more about a relation to the legal questionable thing, I am taking the initiative or expressing the expectation that the Ministry will examine this issue again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u103	Comrade Peterle, before giving the floor to the Minister to answer you, let me remind you that Article 242 in paragraph 1 states that this part of the question may be asked, which you have also done, but both must be announced in the application. You announced one. Well, please let this remain in our memory. This is a business provision to be respected. Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u104	Thank you so much for asking. The Ministry of War is, of course, very constructively involved with the association of civilian disabled persons. We also have an annual contract for the co-financing of certain activities of the Civil Disabled War Association. However, if the initiative is addressed to the Ministry - by this point, the initiative has not yet been formally addressed - we will consider and if there are any options, we will also constructively participate in the implementation of such a civil-disabled-war activity.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u105	My friend Peterle? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. My colleague, Samo Bevk, wants to ask the Minister of Environment, Space and Energy and the Minister of Finance. Please. I'm sorry, I didn't see you. Comrade Peterle, did you want a follow-up question? Yes, I will give Minister Kopač the floor to answer - this question has not been announced - if Minister Kopač agrees to answer. Will you agree to that? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Black construction on Dobreca just went through all the procedures. The removal inspection decision has been issued a long time ago. The fact is that the investor, Mr Machine, tried to delay this as long as possible, but also to try to change the spatial act of the municipality, on the basis of which this could be legalised. With all these initiatives he has failed, I can also say that he has failed, because we are not too happy if black construction has to be demolished. So certainly the inspection leads procedures forward and I think it is a true claim, as you mentioned - I have already heard the information myself - that execution should have been carried out this week. I took your initiative as an initiative. I know that it is today that another procedure has been initiated to determine the ownership of the adjacent parcel through which the transition is to be made. I think that the inspection at this very moment also notes the correctness of Mr Stroj's statements, which, of course, is trying to round up every rescue plant so that no execution can take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. An additional question was asked. Do you want procedural? I understand that Mr. Secretary has already responded to your request to complete the response. Please, my friend Peterle, let's see what this is all about.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u108	I'm afraid we don't understand each other. Mr Minister, you did not answer my question, which was very specific, how many illegal constructions were found in Dobrec, how many were legalised and how many were broken. If this cannot be answered now, I would suggest or expect you to respond in writing. I wonder if it's the only black construction on Dobreca and if it's only done in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u109	Thank you very much. You'll get a written answer. Next he'll get the word of his colleague, Sam Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! At the end of May, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on State administration. For the third reading, Article 83 provided for a solution to be adopted by the administrative unit within three years of the entry into force of this Act at the latest with regard to the acceptance of applications, information, the issuance of data to the parties and the execution of individual administrative procedures relating to the direct contact with the tax and geodetical administration or service. Since the Government itself has already adopted an amendment to the third reading, which deletes the tax service referred to in Article 83, and has therefore found the solution to be imprudent, the amendment of the group of Members, which has fully rejected the proposed article and thus the transfer of geodetic exposures, has been adopted. The arguments with which the MPs - the amendment's proponents convinced the National Assembly to delete Article 83 of the Law on State Administration - I do not intend to repeat. That is why I have a question for the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Finance. Is it true that the process of abolishing tax and geodetical exposures and reducing their powers and employees is still continuing? I would also like to know whether it is true that there are also solutions from the starting points for the reorganisation of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia of 12 March 2002, which for 2003 terminates geodetic exhibitions in Brežice, Tolmin, Logatc, Vrhnika and Cerknica and gradually everywhere else in the country until 2005. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Please, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u112	Thank you very much. This article of the bill on State administration has indeed not been adopted, although I think that the controversy was mainly about the tax administration's exposures, irrespective of the geodetic authorities' exposure. And yet. Therefore, we cannot now combine the positions of the geodetic administration and administrative units, because I do not think it is good for the rationality of this country's operation. We are certainly obliged to rationalise the work of the geodetic administration, and we are doing so. This process is continuing. In order to introduce digital operations, due to electronic access to data, due to the reduced need for physical work, we continue to reorganise within the geodetic administration, not in relation to administrative units. Our aim in the next few years is to transfer certain functions to the regional geodetic administrations, and in many of the current positions, to set up information points, probably also in the premises of administrative units - just according to the contract with them; not to the one who will be employed, who will perform the function of this information point, but rather to the staff of the administrative unit. The law has not been amended in this direction, so he will still be a staff member of the Geodetic Administration. This means that nothing will change for users of services, and they will have exactly the same access to data as they have today. Indeed, some jobs within the geodetic administration will be cut short. This, of course, causes some dissatisfaction with those who may no longer be leading because things are being restructured. That is also why we listen to individual outbursts of dissatisfaction. However, I think it is right that it is our job to move the reorganisation towards a more rational business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask me an additional question? Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the evil hunches came true. It seems that at regional exhibitions, exhibitions of geodetic administrations in such municipalities or in administrative units such as Brežice, Cerknica, Idrija, Logatec, Tolmin, Vrhnika, not to mention, will lose their jobs in the next few years. According to these starting points, which I am aware of, it is estimated that by 2005 60 highly geodetically educated workers would have lost their jobs at these exhibitions, which are closest to people. I suggest that at the Ministry and at the Geodetic Administration, we consider whether these rationalisations might be sought elsewhere, at the headquarters in Ljubljana itself, and at the major regional expositions, but not at these expositions, which are the closest to the everyday user, is the customer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u116	Thank you very much. You mentioned 60 people. I must say, there are 60 people on these exhibits that you mentioned -- you may have thought more of -- but those you mentioned are not. If we all lost our jobs, we wouldn't be able to get 60. [[The ad from the bench.]] Okay, I'm sorry. However, it is certainly a fact that reorganisation means reducing the volume of jobs or eliminating unnecessary jobs at all levels, including in the main administration in Ljubljana, as well as in individual exhibitions or in regional units. However, the fact is that we have difficulty dealing with the eyesight or the proposal to retain all the employees at some of the exhibitions, because it may be areas where it is more difficult to get jobs, while in other, perhaps larger cities, we would go to a normal reorganisation. Reorganisation is a process that, of course, covers the entire geodetic administration and has also had some consequences, which is called reducing the level of jobs needed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next one will have the word of colleague Franz Sušnik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My question is addressed to Mr Jakob Presečnik, Minister of Transport, and relates to the implementation or non-implementation of the site regulations for the construction of motorway sections, precisely to the violation of the regulation in the road map at Blagovica – Šentjakob. I ask why Article 7 of the quoted Regulation, which explicitly specifies the number and place of establishment of the toll stations, is violated or not respected. The fact is that an additional toll station in Lukovica is not envisaged. There is supposed to be free exports and imports here, but we find that there is not one or the other at the moment. The municipality of Lukovica or Lukovica as the seat of the municipality of Lukovica has no entry and exit to the highway. The infringement has also provided for Article 11 of this same Regulation, which prescribes or foresees the construction of a superstructure in the village of the Compolium. Article 37 of the Regulation, which removes black spots, is also in violation and completely disregarded, as there are still 10 burning black dots left. I also ask why it has been violated or why there has been a violation of the Regulation on the Roadmap for the Vransko – Blagovica section. Article 12 of this Regulation makes clear the investor's obligation to build a substitute water pipeline, Ločica. Finally, this construction was confirmed in writing by Darsa’s 1997 letter, which was signed by Darsa’s management at the time because of the fear that a breach would occur. It turns out that this provision of the order has not yet been fulfilled. The fact is that, contrary to the order, work on the construction of the Zaplanin substitutive water pipeline – Ločica has not been completed in its entirety and to an agreed extent, which would ensure a smooth supply of water for the inhabitants of the village of Ločica. I ask the Minister why these violations have occurred and when the provisions of the regulation will be regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u120	Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member, Mr Sušnik. It is certainly known to Mr Sušnik that these two motorway sections, which are among the most difficult or among the most difficult to build a highway network in the Republic of Slovenia - may be matched by these two only by this coastal section from the Black Kal towards the sea - are not even completed. We all know the situation on these two sections, Šentjakob – Blagovica, Blagovica – Vransko. It is also true that the Regulation for these two sections has been adopted for quite some time and that since then there have been some minor facts that need to be taken into account in the construction and completion of these motorway sections. Among other things, for the first time, that the National Assembly approved a short-term programme for the following years concerning the tolling of individual motorway sections and adopted a specific programme on how this toll will be carried out. Secondly, due to some changes, in particular your question about the overpass in the Compol, where at the stage of implementation of this section there was one farm which was previously connected to this overpass, i.e. the only farm associated with this overpass, I think that this is the Complement No. 1 that it was subsequently agreed that this farm or economic building and apartment house should be redeemed and demolished and that a slightly longer road connection should be established to the remaining agricultural and forestry land located in the area. There is another ambiguity, otherwise, in accordance with the Location Plan Regulation, with regard to individual purchases, including housing or economic facilities, and what you have recently mentioned, including with regard to the Ločica water pipeline, this replacement water supply has been built according to Darsa's assurances in accordance with the Regulation. We are thinking, and it will also depend on the results of these analyses whether we will propose any minor amendment to the Local Plan Regulation on both sections, where, of course, these uncertainties could also be addressed, in cooperation with, of course, the countries living in the area or with the municipalities that are in the area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u121	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, you want to complete your response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. See, I did not intend to ask further questions, but this claim by Darsa, or the current administration, that a regulation is being implemented in terms of the construction of a substitute water supply, is, in our opinion, highly controversial and contrary to a letter from the administration of Dars, d.d. signed by the then President Jože Brodnik, and where, explicitly at the request of the affected countries in the then local community, Vransko answers that, I quote, "at the second stage, work will be completed on the water pipeline following the project of Zaplanina-Locica." The first and second stages of this water pipeline are currently being built according to the project cited, but the third stage of this pipeline is not built, this is the capture and the main line to the reservoir, despite the fact that the municipality of Žalec at the time prepared all the necessary data and that we carried out a complete procedure in the municipality of Vransko to obtain the concession. The decision to grant a concession for the use of this water source is published in one of the first numbers, I think in the second issue, the Official Journal in 2002. I ask on behalf of the affected people, I don't think it's necessary to stress that they're convinced that they're being violated what they were promised: when is the third phase of the water supply going to be built? Why this construction has not yet occurred because it is evident that there have been several problems at this time [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] in the supply of water in the village of Ločica? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Complementary response, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u124	Both at Dars and at the Ministry, we are checking these facts with regard to the regulation itself and the possible subsequent arrangements, and with regard to the newly designed water pipeline Ločica itself, and we will also provide you with the results in writing, and then we will continue to do so in agreement with the affected congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levič will next ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Now I don't know if I'd wait for the minister to come or if I'd just ask the chairs a question. I don't know now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u127	Mr Secretary General, please, I think the minister is among us if you can ask him to join us. He is aware of the written question and I think that, at this time, we will start again with three minutes, Mr Levič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u128	I'll just wait for the minister, given that we did this thing for things to be more, I don't know what, running or whatever. I think it's his duty to be here or that it's not just that he's coming and pulling his answer to my question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u129	We're waiting. Mr. Minister, Mr. Levich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Question for Minister Kebra - pediatric clinic. I have a feeling that the Ministry of Health is deliberately delaying the start of the construction of a paediatric clinic, which undoubtedly proves new and new audits. There has not been a call for construction work. That means nothing will be built this year. All the houses on the site, except for the two houses that were supposed to be demolished in the short run, have already been destroyed. So there are no spatial barriers, and the building permit was issued in December. In particular, I point out the following things: Why has not the pediatric clinic, which is an undisputed construction priority, begun to build despite the promises of Minister Kebra? Why is the invitation to tender not yet published in the Official Journal for the Operator for the Transfer of Municipal Waters and the Digging of the Building Cave? In a mockery of all children and adolescents, these parents will not be able to use the funds to build a new paediatric clinic in 2002. So the construction is late again for at least one year. Whether the reserved funds will be transferred in 2003, as it is believed that there is an opportunity to establish a budget fund for health investments with a specific heading for the paediatric clinic, which is to be opened at the Ministry of Finance, which could result in the second year of building a glass with greater dynamics and will be respected by the law of September 2001. We know that the pediatric clinic project is undergoing a number of audits. Have there been audits of other investments in health care or greater investment in Slovenia? What is the ratio of savings due to audits and an increase in the price of a new paediatric clinic due to the delay in this construction? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Minister, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u132	Thank you so much for asking. Since I have a chance, I say again that the pediatric clinic has priority number one, along with the oncology institute, and that we have done everything we can to protect funds that may not be used this year. In fact, the investment fund will be set up due to a paediatric clinic and any unused funds provided by the Ministry of Finance will be transferred for the purpose of the construction of the paediatric clinic in the coming years. Secondly, we actually met this year with a number of tiny ownership complications that delayed the start of construction. At this point, we are in the area of land regulation, which means certain infrastructure changes to the transfer of municipal waters. Here we will be investors, while the contractor will be the municipality of Ljubljana or its public service providers, so that they will arrange everything necessary to move this large municipal hub in this area and the work will begin in October. In this case, therefore, we can ensure that they can start with key work and still work in this year. As far as revisions are concerned. All investments that have not started within five years of the initiation of the procedure are determined by the Ministry and are also beginning their audit, because within a few years the view of hospitals and other investments has changed so strongly that it would be harmful to insist on proposals that are more than five years old. With regard to the paediatric clinic, I can say that regardless of the building permit already given, there has been an agreement to re-examine the content of its programme with international experts. We will inform the public of their assessment next month. This assessment, if accepted, will bring an additional appreciation to the paediatric clinic, not to the detriment of patients or citizens. The truth is, all audits since 1995, when the pediatric clinic started, to this day, will at least halve the costs of the paediatric clinic, since it was a gigantic project that was almost like a clinical center. Today's gonna be the real hospital we need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u133	Thank you very much. Are you satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mr Valentin Pohorec will ask the Minister of Finance a question. I invite the Minister to the Chamber, and I also ask the other ministers and ministers, also taking into account the fact that the written order lies before them when it comes to allowing Members and Members to ask them questions in their presence. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance to come to the Chamber, as well as the other ministers and ministers, to be in the Chamber on a question that they know exactly when it is their turn. Minister of Finance, Mr Rop, please come to the hall because Member Valentin Pohorec wants to ask you a question. Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u134	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. This year, the government adopted a new, modern strategy for the development of tourism, where it also identified actors or task holders in this new strategy for the development of tourism in Slovenia. Among them is the so-called social sector, in addition to private and public. The Tourist Association of Slovenia also performs as a vehicle for development with its more than 550 companies across Slovenia and regional ties. Here is the problem of co-financing the activities of this umbrella organisation, which is somehow changing from year to year. Thus, in 2000, 20 million were earmarked in the budget for the co-financing of the activities of the Tourist Association of Slovenia; in 2001 nothing; in 2002 there was a compromise agreement for financing through the WTO; and for 2003 and 2004 we do not know how it will be. This issue also arises on the Committee on the Economy, on the Tourism Sub-Committee, and would therefore be resolved once in a long time by providing this organisation of civil society as an important vehicle for the development of tourism with a stable source of funding. I therefore ask the Minister of Finance: Do Articles 29 and 30 of the Act on the Promotion of Tourism allow the system to co-finance the regular activities of the Tourist Association of Slovenia? Are there any other options for long-term provision of basic financial conditions for the operation of the Tourist Association of Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Minister, mag. Anton Rop, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u136	Nicely greeted. I regret to say that the Ministry of Finance is not responsible for this area of tourism. But of course I understand the concern and the question. I think it would be more reasonable to ask the Ministry of the Economy, because it also sets out specific items within the tourism cut and will also set out in this case budget 2003 and 2004 a specific amount of resources for these purposes, or within the instruments that the Slovenian Tourism Organisation has within the management board, it will be possible to ensure that these funds are provided. If the funds have been provided over the past years, it is my opinion that these funds may also be provided in the coming years. However, as I said, this is in the domain of the independent budgetary user. This is in this case the Ministry of Economy. This is not the case, so I propose that the Ministry answer this question in writing. This was the most consistent case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Pohorec? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u138	In this context, I would like to add to the reply that an item would be in the budget every year, whoever proposes it, whatever that institution or independent budgetary consumer is, in this case, the Ministry of the Economy, but I believe that the Ministry of Finance is the one that sets up the structure of the budget. If there is once an item in one year, there is no second year, then once again some compromise agreement that it is not one reliable perspective for one such organisation to survive. But this is one of the oldest associations of civil society in our country. We used to give tourism much more weight than we did today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Minister of Justice, Mr Sašo Pece. The Minister is not among us, so unfortunately you will not be able to get an answer at this meeting. However, as the President of the National Assembly has explained earlier, he will be presented within 30 days or you may also insist on an oral response. In this case, you will obtain it and we will place it at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Pache.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u140	Respectable. I understand the apology or your apology for the minister. But I will ask if the Secretary-General of the Government answers me, because I think it is also his duty to know what the term of the so-called government is doing. We must acknowledge that the characteristics of the Slovenian judiciary are, above all, inefficiency and judicial backlog. This was also achieved by the Slovenian government when it commissioned a so-called "twinning" study last year, which contained the analysis or analysis of the civil court and the modernisation of the judiciary and the education of judges. This study gives rise to five fundamental truths that will later be reflected or reflected in the inefficiency of the judiciary. These are: 1. The number of judges in Slovenia is twice the number of judges in an equivalent European region than in Europe. 2. With regard to the criteria of effectiveness, we must say that for civil proceedings, the Slovenian judge deals on average with 200 cases a year and judges from this average European region 600 to 700 cases a year. As regards jurisdiction in the field of unfair proceedings, in Slovenia the practice of making them 450 is on the European average of 3,200. The salaries of Slovenian judges are higher than their colleagues abroad, they also have more, two to three times more, professional colleagues in the judiciary and better equipment for their jobs. In spite of this, the clear fact that our judiciary is a bad judiciary, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has prepared constitutional changes in which, I emphasise and will quote, "Article 129 stipulates that the judicial mandate will continue to be a permanent function". So that's the function in which we won't be able to cut down and with which to try to improve the judiciary. This is despite the fact that this National Assembly adopted a decision a year ago, or the adoption of a law on judicial function, which was also proposed by the Slovenian National Party, that the judicial service should last for 8 years, that is to say, once more than a mere difficult job and that the verification should be carried out every two years. Checking in the sense that the judiciary would be pleased to see if the judge has too many arrears, he simply cannot carry out this business anymore. If we have once decided in this country to join the market system, this should be reflected in all areas. It is not, however, that despite the adopted position of the National Assembly, and I will also say, a decision adopted on 31.5.2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia continues to give silence to the judiciary, despite the findings of this "twinning" project. No, the government won't listen to anyone in this country. After the effect [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] I'd like you to calm down in the back. Thank you. I expect the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to withdraw its initiative for constitutional changes and adopt the decision of the National Assembly, following the findings that you have reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The clerk here is very clear. In the event that the Minister is absent, he is obliged to provide a written reply because he cannot answer you orally because of his lack of restraint. However, you can state that you are requesting an oral response, and as I have explained to you, it will be included in the first next meeting. Mr. Pece, would you like to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u142	Look, because no one in this country really wants to answer any more questions, let it be a minister, and you're giving everyone peace in a row. Constitutional changes during which [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u143	Mr. Peche! I'm sorry. You have the right. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u144	signed by Mr Bandelj. [[...]] Now you're saying you don't have to answer them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u145	Mr. Peche! You have addressed the question to the Minister of Justice. He is absent and read Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure. Would you like to make a statement that the Minister will answer orally at the next meeting because, unfortunately, he cannot answer you today because of his excused absence? But he owes you a written answer. [[A voice from behind.]] If you insist on an oral response, you can make a statement and receive an oral answer to your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u146	Just a question or a statement: Madam Vice-President, you are ridiculous.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Maja Zupan, Minister for Education, Science and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u148	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Your Honor! In particular, in early September, when elementary and secondary schools were starting to train and buy textbooks, it was possible to hear a lot of criticism from parents at the expense of textbooks, especially at the expense of the rapid change in the selection of textbooks. This is a major problem for families with multiple children, since every next child who is just two years younger than the first can no longer use his older brother or sister’s textbook. There is an increasing number of textbooks and work volumes on the market from year to year, among which teachers can choose those through which they will teach under the curriculum. Teachers have the right to make an autonomous decision, but I believe that a great choice is not primarily in their interest, but in the interests of publishers. The production of textbooks has become a good business, especially since they sell textbooks together in a workbook package. The change in the selection of textbooks seems even more incomprehensible to me by introducing a nine-year-old; the textbooks for the newly introduced form of education cannot be obsolete. In addition, in the textbook catalogue for the school year 2002/2003 of the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Education, four different textbooks and five working volumes for Slovenian can be found as a possible choice for the first class of nine years. Madam Minister for Education, Science and Sport asks: What are the criteria for certifying textbooks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u149	Thank you very much, Mrs. Zupan. Dr. Lucia Chok has the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u150	Thank you so much for asking. I know there's been a lot of heated debates about textbooks. We have made a special effort to do so, and we have also provided certain answers to our publications. In any case, the choice on the market is richer every year. This is, of course, right somewhere, although order has to be done. Believe that we have adopted two additional rules this year on the validation of textbooks and the rules on the management of textbook funds. As you know, the funds also cover the social problem quite well; this year we are covering from the funds for 180 million renovations, it is said that textbooks are being updated, which covers 80% for an eight-year-old, 84% for a nine-year-old, 53% for secondary education, professional and professionally, which draws its needs from the textbook funds. I also believe that you are dissatisfied with how teachers decide to choose textbooks. The textbooks will go, if necessary, to the professional world, which must determine whether the textbook is really needed and then be listed in the catalogue. This means that teachers cannot choose an infinite number of textbooks, they must choose a textbook that is first and then add materials that are not always mandatory. However, it seems that this interpretation is not appropriate, for then parents buy everything as compulsory material, which of course is not fair and wrong. How do we regulate prices? The more difficult it is, because publishing is not left to us, these are invitations, we do not define the publisher, unless the textbook is special, specific and is the only one on the market. The Law on Price Control applies to these textbooks, while other textbooks cannot be covered, as this is a market-based area, too. The Council of Experts shall adopt primarily on the basis of curricula and shall be included in catalogues, taking into account the treatment that is each time in the professional world. That is why I think that the textbook validation rule answers many questions and I hope that it will make order. I agree with you that order in this area is urgently needed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mrs. Zupan? Here you go. Madam Secretary, can you turn off the microphone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u152	Thank you very much. If I may, I would like to ask you an additional question: How will external tests be drawn up with such a wide range of textbooks at the end of nine-year primary schooling? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Experimental verification - externally, we always look at which textbooks apply and what standards of knowledge. In fact, they are not made on a textbook, they are made up of standards of knowledge that have to be checked by an external evaluation in a nine-year-old or an eight-year-old, because we still have one. I don't think a teacher could afford to have something from a textbook that doesn't include knowledge standards, because that's what the expert council prescribes when it approves. Therefore, I think that the textbooks approved in the professional world are appropriate and meet such criteria.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, I'm sorry. Procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u156	- contract.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u157	Unfortunately, he has no idea of the rules of procedure. He's talking about - there's no procedural objection.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u158	Well, then, the procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u159	There is no procedural issue either. Meaning [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u160	Procedural proposal, then will you accept it?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u161	Question of the use of the Rules of Procedure - please, Mr Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u162	Thank you for your word. Look, you misinterpreted Rule 247 of the Rules of Procedure, but here it mentions that if due to the time limit there is no Prime Minister, Minister or Secretary-General of the Government, and I think that Mr Pece was right when he demanded that if there is no Minister to answer him, the Secretary-General of the Government. However, as you responded, the Secretary-General of the Government immediately showed his attitude towards this House and left this Chamber. I think that such interpretation is wrong and I ask you, Madam President, not to interpret the rules of procedure beyond what is stated in these articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Allow me to clarify and interpret the rules of procedure, which I am also obliged to provide. The questions referred to shall be addressed to the Prime Minister or the competent Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government. This means, of course, the work cycle covered by the Secretary-General of the Government, which is the organisation of government services, human resources and so on, so the Secretary-General is listed, not as the one that should and should cover the substantive areas of all ministries, but, above all, the proponents here have pursued the objective of dealing with the work cycle and human resources matters of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, if any of the three Rules of Procedure speak again of all three, or the Prime Minister or the Minister or the Secretary-General is not present, he is obliged to reply in writing within 30 days, or if a Member or Member requests an oral reply, they may receive an explicit statement from the Member or Member at the next meeting. That's how I interpret the rules of procedure. I ask that we give the other Members and Members the opportunity to ask their questions. The Minister for Education, Science and Sport will ask Mr Janez Podobnik a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u164	Thank you very much. And someone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u165	And to the Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Although I believe that the rules of procedure in force can be interpreted differently with regard to the role of the Secretary-General, this is an application for a Rules of Procedure committee. I'd like to address the Minister of Finance first, mag. Robbery. The theme is the ownership of the New Ljubljana Bank. Now we're in the so-called second phase. The government published a public offering to purchase shares with 9% and invited Slovenian legal persons, funds and foreign legal entities to do so. It is known that the ownership of the New Ljubljana Bank has greatly divided the Slovenian political public. I personally object to the model in force. She's been very publicized. The most prominent Slovenian macro-economists are great skeptics. She also distributed Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens and citizens. I ask the Minister: Would it not now be an opportunity, on this second offer, to look for quality portfolio investors in accordance with the programme, to allow Slovenian citizens and citizens to enter this space? Why number 500 as the lowest number of shares that can be purchased in this case by Slovenian legal persons? It is my personal opinion, including some experts, that the number 500 is unacceptable discrimination. Above all, it is impossible for individual investors to buy a share in the largest Slovenian bank, a derogation from the rule of equality of all operators on the market. And not last. I believe in the stability and power of this bank and many Slovenes and Slovenes also believe it and would buy one, two, three, four, five, six, ten shares. I'm afraid there's a number 500 here. I ask and suggest that this failure be changed by the government in its procedures. I'm sure he has a chance. Where there is will, there is a way. The argument that private investors aren't portfolio investors won't convince me. Now for Dr. Chok's question. Here he is in the manner of Don Quixote. Third time in a row in this mandate: Maritime Institute for Science and Technology. I've had the classic Murphy happen to me, every question I've asked this institution has made it worse. But the ones responsible in it were getting new and new blows. My question will be very direct. Will you allow Slovenia to survive some other intellectual power, which is not just in the circle of left-handed forces in Slovenia Istria. Dr. Marinček worked very hard to establish it, but then there were a lot of reasons why there were no projects, there were inspections, there was a need to replace Dr. Borštnik as director, and I was simply once told to bloom more flowers. [[...]] Let more flowers bloom in Slovenia too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u167	Thank you very much. I invite both ministers to the floor. First of all, Minister of Finance, mag. Anton Rop, then the secretary, Dr. Lucia Chok. Please share your time fairly within 5 minutes. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u168	Commissioner, you asked about the second phase of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. It must be said, however, that the second phase of the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank has been defined in the privatisation programme adopted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia since May 2001 and also in the supplementary programme since December 2001. This programme has always provided for the sale, dispersal of equity shares in the next phase to well-educated portfolio investors. This is those who have knowledge of the behaviour and knowledge of the New Ljubljana Bank and are willing to buy these shares with this profit as they are being sold. This is the usual method proposed by the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank. In these interviews, we tried to dissipate this sale as much as possible. Thus, this final smallest package is 500 shares, which means that almost 2,000 potential legal entities will be able to buy these shares. The sales restrictions are, of course, also linked to the disclosure of data relating to the New Ljubljana Bank. Since this is a sale with such a profit, it is common for buyers to prepare a special information memo resulting from a solid review of the New Ljubljana Bank. I can say that this memorandum costs 200,000 tolars and, of course, an appropriate signature of the data protection agreement is also needed. These institutional owners are subject to restrictions on sales and concentrations of these shares. The sale and concentration of these shares is not permissible more than 5 per cent in order to keep equity shares scattered and to follow the targeted ownership structure that we have set ourselves. Let me say that we have only published an ad regarding the collection of bids in the domestic newspaper, because we expect that this time, in particular, domestic institutional owners will be in charge. According to this definition defined in the privatisation programme, investment funds are those that come into force. With us, these mutual funds and investment companies, pension funds and, of course, insurance companies, as well as in the work of the holding companies wishing to disperse their investment portfolio, which, of course, also have adequate financial power, will, at the time when the sale of these shares is to be defrosted, with relevant information, take place on the market and sell them accordingly, and will also be duly cautious in the sale. Let me say that usually when selling to natural persons when sold through the securities market, the key criterion of return on each share is the key. Let me say that in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank the price has been reached compared to the profit - this is an extremely important criterion, it is usually used when individuals decide to buy, how much dividends are taken in a given year, and therefore the price is created on the stock exchange itself. The sale of packages takes into account more detailed information, strategic what will happen to the market, what will happen to the development of the bank and what will happen to the potential takeover. Well, this indicator for the New Ljubljana Bank at the time of sale was 43.3. So the price that is achieved and also offered in this circle is very high, is 43 times higher, minus 10%, so 39.3% higher than the profit. If you compare this price with other such banks that have been sold, there is no comparison at all, these prices are usually ten times higher, in extreme cases 20% higher. We have prepared a special report on the privatisation of the New Ljubljana Bank for the Council of State, for the Commission and for the Committee on the Economy, and the Council of State will discuss this report in particular on Wednesday. There you can see all these tables and also international comparisons. From this you will see that, in fact, there is relatively little possibility of buying these individuals except perhaps extremely well - trained individuals, natural persons who would buy them. In that case, the transparency of further transactions would be significantly lower, particularly through the stock exchange. In fact, the idea is that by the end of the year, after we sell to portfolio investors, we will give all shares of the New Ljubljana Bank in full. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] on the securities market. And there's something else. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u169	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u170	That's all I'm saying: citizens will be able to buy this through mutual funds, these shares actually.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u171	Thank you very much. Mr. Sponik, would you like to complete the answer? I think at that time we can then give the Minister the opportunity to answer the second part because the Minister has spent all five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Complementary question to answer mags. Robbery. I am sure that there are quite a few extremely well-educated investors in Slovenia, quite a few, thousands of them. Why? Because they believe in the New Ljubljana Bank and know that it is safe in the long term with a good return on investment. There's a lot of us like this, so let us do it, and we'll buy it. I believe in this bank, and I believe in the price of this stock. In any event, the president of the board announced that they would be listed on the Ljubljana Stock Exchange in the short term. Re-initiative, appeal, request or appeal to the government, however, let us enable Slovenia and Slovenia to buy the shares of the New Ljubljana Bank directly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Podobnik. You have also addressed the question to the Minister. I thought within these two minutes you'd take advantage of the opportunity to get an answer from her in the next three minutes. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u174	Indeed, I would not compare Mr Squirrel with Don Quixote, because I think we have tried to answer this question several times, to solve this crisis. I've always been cooperative, and I think she'd want to listen to me. In fact, it was when this institute was established that in 1999 it received start-up funds and should be formed within a few years into an institute that could live freely, so that all the flowers really bloom, as you said. At that time, we found that the director with a lot of slippages led this institution so that the audit committee found a lot of problems, but we went through the fact that she ran the Institute from Ljubljana, with a third obligation, making it impossible to establish solid leadership and that she actually had a bunch of third parties that she could not turn into full-time researchers. We were also unable to assign a programming group to it because no one received a programming group during this period, because it will not be until next year that they will be split again. If this institute goes on like that, he won't have the conditions to run for the program group. We want this Pint to stay, we've set up a new structure for Pinta that hasn't been happy. Who would now add a programming group to Pint, as long as it comes in, would like Pint to take over so that he is no longer a naval institute. We've prevented this, we've extended it, we've found these bridge funds from surplus funds that researchers haven't used because they couldn't investigate because they're all too busy in other institutions to extend to new calls the possibility of Pint staying. We want to include him in the University of Primorska. We want him to cover the technical nature part. It is not true that this Pint has managed to establish a link with the economy. The funds coming from the economy reach only 8 to 10%. That means there's a matter of leadership here. We have informed the Director that she should consider her status, as people do not come to this institute because of the complexity of the way in which she leads. That's what we told her. She was told this by the board of directors and I think we will have to make a decision between Pinto with the good leadership he will lead forward, with all the support of the ministry and with the support of the director we are giving so far. You have also received our reply on June 18th, as received by the President of the State, the Prime Minister and all those who have been informed or asked to know more about the problem. Please, if you have any influence, you're talking to the principal that there's a problem leading her. It won't go on like that anymore. She just needs to focus fully. I've had some experience as director of the U.S.S.A. I've left the university, I've been busy with all the risks at the new institute, even though there wasn't any money. There is some responsibility that must be assumed by someone who leads to a newly created institute. However, we hope that these projects in September, when they are announced, will be of sufficient quality for this Pint to have them too. We will keep Pint until the university in Primorska is established.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u175	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will next ask the Minister for Home Affairs. Here you go. Madam Secretary, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u176	Thank you very much. The extremely rich corruption and crime of white collars are becoming an extremely pressing social problem in Slovenia. In addition, financial distortions by state authorities are increasing, and the spending of budgetary resources beyond the budget adopted is, according to the Court of Auditors, a rule rather than an exception. The government is clearly ignoring the negative reports of the Court of Auditors. I think they gave a negative opinion about almost half the ministries a few days ago. In the last year, the media and the civil public have uncovered numerous cases of major financial and corruption, which are being absorbed into the very tops of government. If I list only some: persistent irregularities and corruption cases in violation of public procurement rules, nothing has been investigated in the case of diskette Dars, then the Mirage Shuštar, then the Planica affair, orders for a 100 million reduction, then an affair of toilet paper, then ordering and prescribing medicines across all hospitals, double payment, then an affair at the Institute of Health Protection, the Red Cross, the most company Slork, the insurance company Triglav. Look, in each of these cases, someone used corruption to clear at least 50 to 100 million money. In doing so, most of these affairs concern prominent members of the most powerful parties in the country in power. They were mostly candidates for the national elections or State secretaries. At the same time, the state would say metaphorically, Minister Gregor - and I mean not you, Mr Minister, but the government as such - practically does nothing. These actors of these affairs are actually sunbathing in the light of their power, and the former director of the Red Cross is, for example, invited to protocol receptions at the Presidential Palace and so on. In addition, Mr Drnovšek spoke once in January about customerism in his client, but nothing is done in the government. I therefore wonder when the government will finally demonstrate the political will to deal with this problem. I'm aware from the general police department that the department of the criminal service has personally been told by the police that they are powerless because they don't get experts from the government to hire experts. They can't work with a team like that. The former Director of Crime Police has resigned for this very reason. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u177	Quick question, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u178	When will the government do something?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The text is by Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u180	I thank the honourable Member of Jerovsk for this question. He probably does not expect me to report on investigative procedures in the specific cases cited by him. I understand more than an illustration of my assessment of the extent of corruption in Slovenia. I will make some assessments as to the prevalence of this phenomenon and the action of the police, more statistically, as well as the systemic measures taken by the Slovenian Government in this regard. First of all, I would say that corruption can be measured in two ways - by the degree of prevalence of such crimes, with corruption being understood in a more narrow and broader sense from the point of view of legal definition. In a narrower sense, these are only crimes of bribery and bribery and of accepting and giving gifts under criminal law. In a broader sense, however, these are a number of other offences in the area of infringement of official duty or against public powers, such as abuse of the position, undeclared work in the service and so on, not listed here. The second method of measuring corruption is the "Transparency International" index, which publishes public perception of the state of corruption in a country. As for the first one, let me just say two statistics. In 2001, Slovenian police dealt with 99 corruption offences in this broader sense, and in 2002 106 crimes were dealt with, which is a 6.3% increase. These are crimes of bribery, passive and active, including the above-mentioned crimes of abuse of the official position [[These were maximums of 42 and 46.]] , the bride’s work at work [[2 and 12 respectively in 2002]] , embezzlement at work [[4 and 24 respectively in 2002]] , unjustified uses in the service, falsification or destruction of the official charter and so on. This is a criminal offence that is under our criminal code, and legal theory can include them in this broader concept of corruption. And also about that other notion. Here I would like to introduce you or remind you of the information on the "Transparency International" index or the classification of Slovenia on this scale of the least corrupt countries. In 2001, Slovenia ranked 34th and rose to 27th in 2002, with Finland as the least corrupt country in the first place. And now what is most important about the Member's question is how the government fights this phenomenon. We've come to know his dimension. I said how many crimes have been dealt with in police procedures. In addition, I should say that the police, for 2002 and for medium-term orientations ranging from 3 to 7 corruption, the fight against corruption, put these crimes among the priorities, based on the fact that this is one of the most serious areas of crime or the most difficult crimes. Secondly, a special anti-corruption unit has been established within the Police Department. Thirdly, the Anti-Corruption Office, which does not have direct operational powers, was established last year, as you know, but is responsible for monitoring the situation, the scale of this phenomenon and the preparation of systemic legislation and strategy. The law is prepared in the professional text, and I also hear that there is a strategy in preparation. In addition, a special programme has been adopted within the police, an anti-corruption programme for police work. However, a special government coordination group has been formed to combat corruption. I agree with the assessment made by the Member that the human resources situation in the area of combating economic crime is unsatisfactory. So a few months ago, this spring of this year, I set up a working group to check the possibilities for human resources reinforcement and other reinforcements and a greater capacity to fight economic crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u181	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Would you like an additional answer? Here's an additional question, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, your answer brings me to the idea that you're in government to keep your eyes closed to the breadth of the problem. I expected you to serve with at least some specific information that you have done something about one matter. If the case is, say, the Red Cross, a couple hundred million are damaged, or humanitarian donations are damaged, what people have given for charity. But the actors are sunbathing, going to the Presidential Palace for receptions. Isn't that outrageous? And that state services do nothing. On the other hand, there is no political will. Mr Penko and Mr Gorišek, who have a supervisory function, are currently the most ridiculed people in the government sphere. They've been declared messiahs, but I don't know what kind of articles they all come up with. In fact, you did not provide me with one piece of information, the only concern that you do not have these people to pursue. And I think it's urgent. Our taxpayers, our people, who suffer so much for daily bread and daily dinars, but that they should deserve to have a government that will persecute those who in such a way so ruthlessly own billions and billions of businesses. In one year they get in their pocket for a couple of "falcons" money. And he's a calm man, nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u184	I agree with your assessment or point of view that these are phenomena that need to be tackled very effectively and fundamentally. However, I cannot share the view that the government is unaware of the dimension and dimension of this phenomenon. On the contrary. The activities that I have listed, the statistics that are sufficiently eloquent, speak in this sense that it is aware of this phenomenon and that the law enforcement authorities are working. In the individual cases referred to by you, in most of these cases only procedures are under way within the relevant authorities. I am confident that institutions such as the police, the prosecution and the courts will also bring these proceedings to an end and bring them to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u186	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honourable Minister and Ministers, honourable Members and Members. Allow me first, Madam President, to express my protest at this meeting today on Monday. Involved with an agreement [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u187	Mr Rokavec, I ask you not to violate the Rules of Procedure and do not waste time on your assessments in the context of the possibility of asking the question. Please, please, and ask a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u188	Thank you very much, Madam President. But I'm going to put this protest in a second form because I think it's still a bit of a setup.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u189	Here you go, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u190	My question is addressed to the Ministry of Health, and specifically to Mr Minister, Dr Kebra. It is a matter of amending and supplementing the mandatory health insurance rules published in the Official Journal of Numbers. 59. This is, in particular, a question or problem that I am actually asking the Minister. What were the reasons for giving positive consent to these changes? It is the right or right to use a digital hearing aid only for children under 15 years of age. In the case of classical hearing aids that were actually in use or were possible to obtain these classic hearing aids only until last year, all insured persons were entitled under the 86 rules. Now it is possible to use newer digital hearing aids only for children under 15 years of age. In this way, the age limit shall be set and placed in a different position for insured persons. I ask the Minister: What were your reasons or opinions for a similar position already presented at this year's General Assembly of the Union of Deaf and Deaf Slovenia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u192	Dear President, honourable Member! Thank you for asking. The problem mentioned by Member Rokavec is, in fact, not a problem, but a new right to compulsory health insurance. Children under the age of 15 received this additional right to a digital hearing aid, which is, of course, a complex and expensive device and will burden the health insurance institution for an additional 25 million per year. All other rights so far have remained unchanged in this regard. The proposal for solutions for children up to the age of 15 has been submitted by the Otorinolaringology Clinic. Allow me only to guess that it was purely for professional reasons, to which the age of a particular apparatus for certain reasons of professional nature corresponds to a certain age. I'm pretty sure there's been no age discrimination, but a supplement that belongs to children because of the nature of their hearing impairment. If that is not the case and if there are appropriate professional reasons for not doing so, then, of course, here I express my readiness when I hear these arguments that we will change this. Our agreement to this provision was that these are new rights and are professionally justified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u193	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. He again wishes to ask the Minister of Health the question of Mr France Tsukati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister of Health! In the adoption of the medical service law, you did not take into account the opinions of the doctors who joined the Chamber, the Society, and Fides. At least that's how we got the MPs. However, it was a law that essentially interferes with the conditions of their work. This is just one of the last examples of your attitude towards medicine, a relationship that I think is dangerously disputed between health policy and doctors. Since you did not previously reach an agreement at the Ministry level with the doctors of the so-called social agreement at which the National Assembly was building the adoption of the Labour Relations Act, in accordance with its direction from three years ago, because you did not reach this agreement, this conflict was brought to a lower level, to those hospitals where the directors also wish to implement these guidelines on their own initiative, despite discussions with health care providers. [[The last case is in Celje]] . How, Mr. Minister, will you manage to raise the quality of doctors' work in an atmosphere of mistrust and revenge, reduce waiting types, rationalize health care? How, without the agreement and cooperation of doctors, when all this, in particular the rationalisation of diagnosis and therapy and prescription of medicines, can only be done by them and only if they are willing to assume a level of personal responsibility? How can a general win a battle if he's cornered by all the officers? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u196	Thank you very much for the question, Mr. Ambassador Dr. Tuckati. If I had started because there were many of your questions, at least I understood them rhetorical, I would have answered first that you might have drawn an inappropriate comparison with the generals and officers. Not because history speaks of very few cases of generals allowing officers to join them. Not because, in the event of a transfer to health care, doctors are somehow more equal to soldiers and officers with directors; but especially because there is no citizen in the military and command system and there is no patient and there is no interest in him. So allow me to say, the Ministry's tasks are particularly for the benefit of citizens' health. Our agreement or disagreement with doctors is based on some of the very interesting issues that emerged last year. From professional errors to the very sentence of doctors who are known how the public reacted to them and, of course, also themselves - and many other cases could be cited - we can understand, of course, that in the event that certain sentence requirements were not met - and, by the way, the Fides trade union has withdrawn from the negotiations when this was signed before the public and on our part successfully concluded - we can understand, of course, that there is general dissatisfaction of doctors. However, all I am saying is that at the Ministry and also in this law we have taken into account the useful comments made by professional associations. This law has brought a solution that we have been looking for for several years in the area of specialisation payments, and it has brought a new working title, which will bring some five doctors through the Councillor's Code for Better Income. And I could list a lot more. However, the determination of working time, which is the only issue in this law, must be understood that it cannot be understood by another profession, only as the interest of that profession, but rather as the interaction of doctors with two million citizens. Eighteen million contact days, 60,000 patients seeking medical attention each day, have the same right to participate in the opening of the working hours of doctors. After all, the working hours of school start-up are not acceptable and are not dependent on teachers themselves, but are laid down at least in the acts of the regulations of the Ministry of Field Affairs. So at this level, although we are, of course, accepting or dissatisfied that in ten years we have not come to the consent of doctors, to their understanding that we have changed a lot in the new country, that many citizens are starting work in another way, that many citizens are not able to get up at five in the morning so that doctors can start working in the office at seven and that, of course, many offices don't even start at seven, but start at eight or half. Thus, in many cases, we simply legalise the situation in favour of the citizen when we carry on our work in the afternoon. We think that we have done a lot of good and that this is how citizens respond to us. At the same time, allow me to say with regard to recent management measures in Celje that the Ministry does not agree with them substantively. They are in sharp contrast to what we wanted to start working hours at eight and that the work of doctors and contact with patients is prolonged in the afternoon. Of course, this does not mean that we support other activities related to events in Celje. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Tsukjat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u198	Mr Minister, in the summer months you announced in the media a quality project in health care and promised to publish this autumn national quality standards. There is no secret that the Medical Chamber of Slovenia has been building a quality monitoring system in health care for almost all areas of medicine and dental care for three years. 30,000 cases have already been collected. Among all the quality parameters monitored so far, the Chamber will choose the most significant parameters for each specialty, one that will allow for a realistic assessment of the quality of work and, on the other hand, will be acceptable and respected by doctors. The project was presented and very well accepted at the European Forum of Medical Organisations and the World Health Organisation. It is expected to become a model for other European countries. However, I think, Mr. Minister, you are also ignoring the opinion and work of medical organisations in this area. As Minister, you can, as you have predicted, prescribe parameters for monitoring the quality of work from the Cabinet by decree. That power gives you your function. The question is whether this is in the national interest. Although the revolution of doctors will be quickly forgotten, I fear we will witness again to a project that will never come to life because it has been set in a strange way and will not be accepted by the healthcare community as its own. At the time of Ljubljana's occupation in 1941, Italians severely restricted the functioning of the Medical Chamber, and the communist regime is a chamber [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] It was banned in 1945. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u199	Thank you very much, Tuck. Of course, at the time of the introduction of the new Rules of Procedure, you know that the complementary question means that it must have a bearing on the issue that you have announced. The question you have now raised, at least as far as I can assess the content of listening, is a completely new question that you have not announced to the Minister and, of course, I give him my word. I think he will be able to better define a type of question himself, but my assessment is that this is not a complementary question. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u200	I have an interest in answering that question. First of all, what the ministry announced during the summer months, namely the call for the notification of so-called dangerous events in health care, is just one trifle not to say a thousandth of a systemic quality analysis. Perhaps the report has also led to the impression that this is a quality project, as the Ministry imagines. Secondly, the project being carried out at the Chamber shall be carried out in agreement, in cooperation and, if you will allow me to say, in one side of the Ministry's supervision. We know this project. First, it was held at the former Ministry and then the Chamber, at the discretion of the Ministry or at the proposal of the Ministry, was given this authority. This means, this is a joint quality project. And for the third time, let me tell you. This Ministry, in its acts, in particular in the Act on Expanded Professional Colleges and in the Health Council, has explicitly distinguished the expert opinion from the political opinion and has never before been so autonomous in the ten years of the new state, but of course also so responsible for making its decisions. That's how I give you the whole right. Quality parameters, quality criteria, method of evaluation, this is what the profession must propose. This is not about government officials. However, government officials, in this case the Ministry, are obliged to coordinate and supervise this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u201	Thank you very much. The following will be asked by Mr Ivan Mamić, Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Something new has just brought in the rules of procedure — a positive one to see the minister at the end of the day when we have parliamentary questions so that a question can be asked, otherwise I have problems every month. The locals of the Supreme Court are interested in the reply of Minister Kopač. When will the updated Law on Earthquake Recovery be implemented in Posoča, which was adopted in July 2001? According to the locals, these are housing homes of families who also have a different social situation. There are 33 such facilities in Bovsk alone. Since they have been waiting for the promised roof over their heads for the fourth winter, they wonder whose citizens they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Data or question is not fully understood. If I could just say a few stats for a minute. The earthquake damaged 1,716 buildings owned by such persons who are beneficiaries of this law. Although many more objects were damaged. Of these 1,716, 1,480 beneficiaries gathered all or even wanted to be included in the earthquake recovery programme. Of these 1,480 buildings, the situation is this: 1224 was, we're talking numbers that are now almost half a year old. Since I only got the question at 3:00 p.m., I took the old statistics that were available to me that moment. 1224 are renovated facilities, 89 are being renovated this year, 53 were started this year, and we still expect that they will be completed by the end of this year, and 114 are where the reconstruction is related to the resolution of ownership and other problems. Of this, there are only 35 apartment buildings. Thus, 35 apartment buildings may also be at stake this time or perhaps even next year. If I am specific, the situation for the municipality of Bovec is that only 10 facilities still have arrangements for the start of reconstruction. That's why I don't get the number 33 very well. However, we can also deliver the latest statistics in writing to the Member. Otherwise, the question may concern requests for a so-called mortgage. I don't know, I didn't understand it, but there, because the 2001 law has reopened the possibility that people who are socially at risk are asking for additional state aid. If the question may have concerned such a category of potential beneficiaries, however, I do not have any data on how much this instant is in the rescue. However, these are people who have already been repaired, who have been put back, but who have difficulties in paying off their obligations. Perhaps the question referred to this category. But I will certainly provide you with more detailed statistics, including on these cases, in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Satisfied? Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Petan will ask the Minister of Health a question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u206	Thank you for your word. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In recent times we have been able to hear about irregularities in addition to all the awkward things that are happening in Slovenia or, if I may say so, the strange business decisions of the health insurance company Mutual, which, as far as I am concerned, is the majority or 100 per cent owner of the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. The mutual is to be sponsored by millions of amounts of interest associations, the ones whose representatives were members of the supervisory authorities of the institution or the Mutual. Sponsorship contracts are also expected to be long-term. So the union - one of the unions that I'm not going to be direct - one of the unions is going to get 416 million in a few years because the contract is long-term. This is about equal to the one-year profit of the entire Mutual. That's one of the cases. There's more of them, and I'm not gonna count them. I therefore ask the Minister of Health: How do you feel about such conduct of the Mutual, given the financial situation of the Mutual and, of course, the Institute? In addition, I would ask him about the same question: Do you think it is right that insured persons who are over a million or over a million of us because there is almost no one who would not otherwise be connected to each other, that we have to pay ever-increasing premiums for our health or to preserve our health, while the Institute is generously sponsoring associations that may have no business at all? I ask this because of the fact that he usually sponsors a person who has large profits or large incomes and almost has nowhere to go, or if he has somewhere to go, he has enough resources to afford it. However, if this is the case in this case between mutual and health insurance companies, it is unusual for this body to increase the premiums for voluntary insurance at that time. If the financial situation is so favourable, then the indications, the reasons why it is necessary, do not hold. Thanks for the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Dr. Dushan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u208	Thank you for asking. While it is my duty to say that the Mutual Private Institution is and that decisions or decisions on its conduct are taken by the Insurance Supervisory Agency. At the Ministry, we still expect the Agency to give a more defined opinion on everything that has happened to the public recently. We, too, receive only information in public. Undoubtedly, this was also the reason for the Ministry to review, in a new and re-examination, all the dimensions of voluntary insurance and to establish and confirm what we have said several times in the past: we have some sort of inevitable voluntary insurance or we even say that we have compulsory voluntary insurance because the insurers are together with Adriatica almost a million 450 thousand, hardly any citizen who is not voluntarily insured. This is in sharp contrast with the practice of the countries we want to compare ourselves with. This has led us to the fact that we have already announced, and at the future press conference of the Ministry of Health, we will explain more explicitly why we believe that it is necessary to reduce the transfer - what is happening in the last five, six years - of the transfer of rights from compulsory to voluntary insurance, that there is a need to change the trend, that there is a need to reduce premiums, that there is a need to reduce premiums in particular for the socially least-standing citizens and introduce a small reform in this area of voluntary insurance, which will also be a lot of talk in this House in the coming months. As far as individual possible errors are concerned, we are in fact obliged to wait for institutions with powers in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan, please. Do you want to complete the answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u210	Thank you for your word. Some of what the minister said could be classified as a bit of a misdirection, but in some ways the matter is such that it is mutual, that we are all some kind of owner. But that's not true, because then the timing would be a little different, then it would be mutual or otherwise carried out, but it's not. That's what you say. That's where you can see who the real owner is. Anyway, I'm happy with what you said. In fact, you didn't answer my basic question. I know that there will be a need for reorganisation, but that this is a reason for something that will have to be done. Too bad it wasn't before. I actually asked you if you thought it was right that these things were happening. This is about the area you're covering. After all, it's not only important for you, but that some hospital works well, but that the other system that covers it, which supports it, works well. This is said to be just a system of insurance, additional insurance and, of course, the Mutual and Health Insurance Office, which are still connected here, are one of these very, very important systems. If these two systems don't work, then the hospital funding will eventually collapse, if I do caricature, but I don't want you to replicate me now or explain to me how this system works, because we know there's no time to explain it. I asked you if you could answer me if you think that's the same thing, because this is the part that you're covering, it's in your purview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u212	Maybe I am, but I was less clear. Of course, I don't want to talk about possible mistakes in this place that I'm covering. However, if you ask me as a person who knows this area or this area, I do not think it is right that we have voluntary insurance, which seems only voluntary, that I believe it is, but of course legislation and not mutual in itself, that has allowed a private institution to simply almost forcibly collect money, that it is not right to raise the policy of voluntary insurance that strikes the poorest and that it is much harder to raise the contribution rate that is fair, at least to the income position of an individual citizen. And what I think is wrong, what I am saying on certain occasions is that it increases the injustice of the system, I predict that we will try to do so, of course if we are able to defend you in Parliament, to change this change in order to make it more European. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u213	Thank you very much. The Minister of Transport will be asked a question by Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u214	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I have a question for Mr. President. We all know how much we stress road safety in Slovenia. However, there are still too many road accidents on our roads with severe health consequences or fatalities. When driving on the freeway from Styria to the sea, we can see that the opposite lanes in most highway sections are separated by aluminium safety fences. At the section in Savina Valley, between Vranski and Trojans, with a concrete fence. The tragic traffic accident that took place in August in the Senožecs showed that the aluminum shield is somehow not effective, since it does not hold the truck. Some sections are also characterised by specific conditions such as strong occasional storms in Primorska. This is why I am interested in the following: Why do we not have uniform safety standards on all motorways of Slovenia? Are these standards adapted to those we know to be different? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u216	Thank you so much for asking. First of all, I would say that, of course, an environmental impact assessment is necessary when putting the route into space. These different safety fences between the two sides of the highway are, of course, the result of this and because you mentioned a concrete case in the Lower Savina Valley, it was just a condition, a condition, a protection problem in this case of groundwater and some other influences. Otherwise, these fences are, of course, dimensioned according to the applicable rules and requirements. Most of the fences in Slovenia and also outside Slovenia, in Europe, are carried out in the way they are in Slovenia. Thus, these concrete fences between the two vehicles are formerly an exception to the rule and do not bring about the appearance of the highway itself. It is also similar with anti-group protections that are also made on the basis of an environmental impact assessment or the relevant regulations on noise in the natural environment or noise caused by road and rail transport. For all these fences, all these protections need an appropriate guarantee, appropriate tests are required. All these fences, all this protection is properly designed and for which appropriate administrative permits are also obtained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Would you like an additional answer? Here you go, Mrs. Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u218	Thank you very much for the answer, but I am still interested in: Why is it not in Primorsk when such a sunny storm is known as the storm, whether it is taken into account or not in those parts? Because the wind is very flimsy, we know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u220	I mentioned the environmental impact assessment earlier, one thing and the other, when designing individual elements of the road, it is also necessary to take into account the local elements in force and the wind pressures in Primorske are, of course, significantly different from those in other parts of Slovenia. This fact, of course, must also be taken into account when designing. Just like in the design of high-rise buildings.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina will address the question to the Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u222	Thank you so much for saying that. I recently registered my own car for a long time. Since this happened to me for the first time this year, I must admit that I spent more than four hours on it. It happened to me that I went to another congregation for a technical checkup first thing in the morning, and then I went back to my congregation, where I found my agent, because I had him for years and years to secure my car. Then I came to the congregation, during that time there was lunch, then I paid another toll there, and then I went back to Krška to look for a short sticker, and I was lucky that they didn't send me back to Krško and back to Sevnica to buy a car by accident and that I had two insurances, one for a certain time only for three weeks and one for one year. [[...]] If I didn't have it, if it didn't happen, if I did two insurance companies, I'd have to go back to Sevnica again and then go back to Krsko again. In short, you promised when we discussed these things, not long ago you yourself said that they were problems and that we would do a lot of things on the basis of the analysis, which would mean a more friendly environment for such services to citizens and citizens and so on, a service in one place - I will not list because you know all these things. Now I would ask you nicely - they told me there at the insurance company and in the congregation and everywhere that this is absurd and confusing and that it is a horror what happens with broken bar, tractors and so on, driving even after 40 kilometers for a technical inspection I'd like you to tell me what you've done in this area, if you can explain. At the same time, I'd like to ask you the following questions. It happens if a person has a personal vehicle written on his wife or anyone else and travels to another country. You can't travel there with this car because in another country you pay the fine. Of course, you must have a special mandate that is difficult to gain, a lot of time and money, and only one year is valid. Now I would ask you whether anything bilateral or multilateral is being done in this area, so that at least these European countries can be so arranged that I can drive the car in these countries. The question if you can even say it in Slovenia - I don't know - if it's not written in my name, say, if it's written on my wife or on my child, full-year or whatever. This is a problem that needs to be solved. I'd like to ask you for an answer to these two questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u224	Thank you so much for asking. It is true, honourable Member, that I answered this question months ago, that we are preparing an analysis and that we will take some measures. That's what we did. The analysis is done. In addition, we have already taken two, three measures to improve the situation. The first is that we have amended the regulations on technical checks in two directions. The first change relates to the fact that each citizen or citizen can self-install a sticker, which partially costs the entire operation - this was one of the critics - if so decided, still install this relevant authorised person. However, the second amendment concerns cars for the first three years when no technical checks are necessary in order to be able - right now we are starting to implement this measure - to receive a sticker on administrative units without having to make the way to an authorised service organisation, because there is no need for a technical inspection. The third measure is going in the direction which I have already announced that all administrative units should ensure that authorised service organisations can carry out all operations in one place. At about half of all service organisations, this is now ensured, for the rest of the work, administrative units have the task of providing training for staff so that all these operations can be carried out in one place. Indeed, what you say is that it causes discomfort and unkindness of service already the fact that users of this service have to provide different operations at different ends. The whole idea is based on being in one place, and this is on an authorised service organisation, it can do this whole service: from insurance, insurance payments to road user payments, technical checks and the label itself. These are initial steps to gradually regulate the situation. I agree with you, although things improved in many ways when the registration of motorcycles was made, which in addition to the seasonal component caused great crowds. Things have improved in many ways, but we are far from satisfied with it. Deeper system modifications are needed. The establishment of an effective registration system in the country takes only a few years. And so it will be in Slovenia. The changes envisaged for the future do not in any way constitute a radical break with current practice, but rather an upgrade. Therefore, at least the following needs to be done. Firstly, a substantial increase in the number of authorised service organisations. There were 42 of them, now I think they're close to 50 or 48. I think we need to increase this number by at least one more. The policy now run by the Ministry is that everyone can get this mandate provided that they meet the technical conditions that are all the same. No additional criteria, distance or similar, which has been in place in the past and which has also caused a relatively small number of service organisations, are no longer in this policy. Anyone who comes with a role that proves that technical conditions are met will receive and be authorised here. The first condition is the doubling of the number of these organisations, of course, over the longer term. The second condition is the amendment of the law or the adoption of a new law. I promised in the spring debates that we would have a new road safety law by October. This law will be ready by October. I do not believe that there will already be a parliamentary debate on him. However, we will propose a public debate or a public presentation of some of the open issues that arise in this area and also in the police field. There will be an opportunity to discuss how the system of stickers will be upgraded in the course of the debate on this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. A supplementary question, Mr Kelemina wants a complementary answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u226	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm glad there's something going on in this area. I would really just like to draw your attention to this, I hope you are aware of the dimensions of all these problems, as well as the additional costs incurred by citizens for driving, polluting the environment and so on at the waste of time and all of this – these are really problems. If we change this, it will be better, I hope, that we will have the opportunity to influence these changes, that in municipalities where there is no service for technical examinations and so on, as before, these municipalities have agreed with some arrangements, inter-agency or whatever, that they could also do a full service in another municipality. It used to be. I know that I could do anything on the service in Krška and also get the certificate and everything. In this direction, it is necessary to work to ensure that those citizens who would then be in municipalities where there are no such authorised services would not be deprived of this and would cause significantly higher costs than they are now and everything else that is related to this. I'll wait here for this to actually happen. I'd like you to hurry as fast as you can. Now, if you can answer that other part of the question that I asked you about the possibility of driving a car that wasn't written by me, but my wife or my son and so on, at home or in another country. I don't know if I can even drive a car like this at home, or if I have to have a special authorization not to pay my sentence sooner or later. I happen to know that I have all the cars written on my wife, and it suits me, or she went to fix it because she had time. Now I've got problems. If I want to go abroad, I have to look for authorization and so on. Is it not possible to arrange in some way that at least in this circle, if it is the same address and so on, these problems would not arise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u228	That's all I'd say first. We are very aware of the dimension of this problem. We are working hard to resolve these issues. I think that this is also an opportunity to call on that part of the public concerned that is willing to go with entrepreneurial initiatives to the new authorised service organisations, that there are no obstacles to this, except meeting the conditions. If this type of initiative is in the congregations, it is only commendable and will fall to fertile ground. As for the other issue, I could only say that I think it is very convenient to discuss in concrete terms, and we will see which country it is or whether appropriate relations have been established with this country within the meaning of the reciprocity agreement with regard to the appropriate powers. We are prepared to study this issue in particular, of course on a specific case - whether it is Croatia or Yugoslavia or any of these countries. For Slovenia, however, I think that there are no formal questions of this kind or that the police are not asking if you have a car without a license written or if the wife’s property is not yours.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u229	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will be asked a question by Mr Aloise Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u230	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to remind you, Mr Agricultural Minister, of something you already know, namely, I would like to present to you and also to hear your opinion on the difficult situation of Slovenian vineyards at this time, especially here I think of the difficult situation in the Styrian wine-growing environment. I know that you will answer me with the functioning of the market, with the principles of the functioning of the market, but after 50 years of the socialist economy that we have had in this country, it is not possible to respond so easily to this problem. Look, for the third year in a row, vine growers have been facing one of the biggest crises since the war. In cellars there are increasing stocks of wine, Slovenia is also importing more and more of this product, the price of grapes today on the market in this region of Slovenia reaches an average of between 60 and 80 tolars. Besides, for last year, many wine cellars paid the producers a total of 10% of the value. This year we are just before the new year, before the new harvest and the vineyarders do not really know where the surpluses of this wine are. I am interested in the following: Does the government have any programme that would help these producers not to see what is happening at this point in time, that vineyards, which they have planted on inappropriate surfaces a few years ago, on the plains, are now leaving them to fail or some have already decided to join the shrinking and reduction of the number of vines? But the second thing that's happening has started about three years ago, and this year it seems to me that it's already come with all its focus, and the emergence of this new disease, some of which is compared to the appearance of the apex at the beginning of the previous century. They say we have a major disaster approaching us in this area. We are therefore interested in: Are you following this issue in the Ministry of Agriculture, is there any program of possible rehabilitation, and how will the state proceed, would you say, to this modern problem? We know it's a disease that's simply called a rosary that attacks the highest quality wine varieties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Mag. Franz Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u232	Thank you very much. I think that quite a few changes are envisaged, which are indisputably saying that in Slovenia, in the future, as far as reconstruction is concerned, we would support only and exclusively a focus on high quality. In the world and in the work of the European Union as a major part of the European and global wine market, two are clear: table wines and country wines reach an extremely low price. With these wines, we will be overrun in a year and a half without any restrictions, in quantities anyone wants to buy. However, there is also the possibility of marketing high-quality and market-specific niche-oriented products. Only here does Slovenia have a certain market option. We do not have great opportunities for large quantities, because in this case, in fact, we should only look at Spain, some other countries or wine-growing areas, areas where such average or less quality wines simply survive only if they are 50 and more hectares. This is not possible in Slovenia, it is not real in Slovenia, as it will not be. Therefore, in the future, from next year on, as they are already working intensively in the coastal wineland and have significantly fewer problems and achieve significantly higher prices and have achieved significantly greater progress than Styria, which is the largest, but also the most traditional Slovenian wine-growing country, so that it is easy to restore, not more to the expansion of hectares, but to a complete change in the range where there is an interest, with the aim of extremely high quality. As far as what we support now is concerned, we support export support, storage for wine stocks and support for the wine concentrate. About one billion tolars of money will be spent this year for this purpose and we will help export 8.5 million litres of wine to various Western European countries. Imports were only at 4.5 million, which has so far been imported according to official data, and this is significantly less than in previous years, most of them coming from the southern markets. I warn you, in a year and a half, the market will be fully open in the case of the European Union. Therefore, we propose a focus on recovery only in raising high quality or changing the range. I would also point out that what is second - regulation of business relations: those who do not have business relations or who will not act independently on the market will not be able to count on state aid such as concentration, exports, support for stocks. We are thinking, by the way, about introducing single distillation, when certain wine stocks would be converted into pure alcohol not used for drink purposes but for industrial purposes. This is a form that the European Union knows. In fact, in Slovenia we have witnessed and are still witnessing a large share of the grey market and the need for the country's resolution appear only when there is no longer the possibility of selling in the market in the way that this was possible before. The grey market is shrinking, and unfortunately legislation - as may be useful to health - is proposed by my colleagues in the government - on the other hand, it is accelerating the gray market because it reduces the attractiveness of official marketing, that is another story. In short, these are things I see for myself as possible. As for the rosary, this, according to experts, attacks mainly weakened vineyards. We have asked the experts to draw up a proposal if this matter covers larger dimensions, how to act, how to act, and at a time when this response is more clearly known, we can also answer or act on it, if necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u233	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u234	And here we are, this year's crop will be less than 20 percent from last year's, different from the area to the area in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u235	Thank you very much. And also the last question, which, unfortunately, is addressed to the Minister of Economy, who will not be able to give you an oral answer today because she is excusedly absent. Mag. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Yeah, I don't know what's going on with the Minister of Economy. Last time she was gone, the Secretary of State for Finance was in charge. I don't know if he's afraid of me or avoiding me or anything because we can talk differently. I don't have to ask anyone a question here, because I don't know if anyone's gonna write it down. There's no one here. We'll send a magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u237	That's it, a magnetogram. And if you make a statement that you want an oral response at the next meeting, we are obliged to ensure that you are in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, that the Minister responds orally to your question sent at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u238	So I'm gonna ask you a question. As President of the Commission, as a Member, people are asking me about the behaviour of the Slovenian Compensation Society. He sends them letters all the time, ordering them to transmit this information, not once, but repeatedly in a row. They're spending government money on this. So the beneficiaries who would be entitled to the money are already very old and ugly - they are just before death or they die quickly, so they are irritated. This is unworthy work and I have already warned about it, but nothing moves in this Slovenian compensation society: they do the same all the time. As we know, we have been promised to get all decisions already there, somewhere, November of the previous year - none of this! Meanwhile, brokers are happy to trade bonds, so in the back there is money to go for damages. Well, it's an improper act. I ask the Minister: When will she make order in the Slovenian Compensation Society? So that people don't attack me, the citizens are going to attack me no more, so I don't do anything, and I don't gloat. It is high time and fair time for Slovenian citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Will you be satisfied, as stated in the Rules of Procedure, with a written reply, Mr Drobnič, will you predict and insist on Mrs Minister's oral reply at the next meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u240	With an oral response, if possible this year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u241	The clerk here is very clear. “The Member who asked the question may indicate that he insists on an oral answer.” In this case, the President of the National Assembly will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly and the Minister, I hope that she will answer your question at that time. Dear Members and Members! I apologize, Members of Parliament and Members, just a message. We're not gonna finish this point, but we're gonna break it. I interrupt the point because we will finish it tomorrow at 5.35 p.m. when we vote on the proposal for a decision by Dr Andrej Bajuk, submitted pursuant to Rule 146(2) of the Rules of Procedure. We will vote on the proposal for a decision to hold a discussion at the next meeting on the answer to Dr Bayuk's question, so that I do not conclude this point. I thank everyone, the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary-General for the answers given. Thank you very much for your cooperation. Mrs. Majnikov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u242	Am I allowed a procedural question? Given that we are using the new Rules of Procedure for the first time, and given the agreement that only questions of greater importance are being raised as questions of general interest than local importance, I would like to point out that today there were some questions from the Members, which are of local importance and could be translated into written initiatives. I would therefore propose to use the same vat in all parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-09-23-SDZ3-Redna-18.ana.u243	Thank you very much. Initially, there will probably be some problems in interpreting this issue. I'm sure that this meter will soon form and satisfy the wishes of all of us. Thank you so much and good night.
