ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! It's 10 a.m., time for the 21st meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you which of the colleagues and colleagues today will not be able to participate in the meeting due to other obligations. These are colleagues of Celigoj, Diaci, Janša, Rupar [[All day]] , from 12.00 p.m. onwards, colleague Kremžar, from 2.00 p.m. onwards colleague Germić, Jerič and Švagan, from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. co-worker Cveta Zalokar Orazem and after 4 p.m. colleague Fabjan, and after 5 p.m. colleague Gračner. We're moving to seven. POINT OF THE DAY - SECOND DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPORT OF THE PENALTARY LEGISLATION. The proposal was tabled by our fellow Member, Saša Peca, for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the Internal Policy Committee proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for a Code is not suitable for further consideration. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 134(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I first give the floor to my fellow Member, Sas Pečet, the proposer, if he wishes, to further explain the proposal. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! The law is not written on the basis of a directive of the European Union, the law is not written in connection with EU integration. The main purpose of the law, or why the law is written, is to reduce the number of rapes or sexual violence, whether in any form, adults, weak persons or minors. The fact is also clear from statistics that the number of criminal charges or the number of judgments handed down in this area has increased, that unfortunately in our country these crimes have increased since 1995; that the crime, the sexual assault on a child, has increased by more than 100% since 1995; and that all the number of complaints filed against the defendants has simply increased. I truly believe in this National Assembly, and I hope it will say, within its power, stop these acts. Of course, the decision will be ours. The law basically monitors or pursues one goal, i.e. how to reduce the number of such crimes - by raising the prison penalty. We estimate that this has achieved three effects: firstly the sanctioning effect, secondly the frightening effect and the return effect. Return effect - in Slovenia, after analysis made in Slovenian prisons, the largest number of returnees comes from the areas of those who committed crimes in the field of sexual inviolability. Even this, I think we must have in mind when we decide whether to support the law or to support the position of the parent’s working body. We also assess that the law does not interfere with the system of penalties, because by amending the penal code we have amended the entire chapter, i.e. the entire chapter of crimes against sexual inviolability. And since we estimate that this is a comprehensive and uniform issue, it seems completely inappropriate for us to come up with an argument and say that we're "per partes" or paralyzing into this system. These crimes in this area, according to our assessment, represent the whole and therefore it is reasonable to re-establish them. However, we agree with those who say or who have cooperated, at least in the stage of the preparation of the law or discussion at the home work, that these crimes may be mitigated or, I apologize, reduced in other ways in order to reduce the number of such acts. But I personally assess that each institution has its own. And the National Assembly, as the legislative branch of power, has the opportunity to adopt laws. Today, we have before us this law, which, at the time of its adoption, would primarily result in a reduction in the number of pedophiles and rapists. More importantly, it would result in a reduction in the number of rape victims and other forms of sexual aggression. In spite of the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the national working body, I propose to support the law. We need to know that several years ago, fellow Member Roman Jakič tried to change the situation in this national assembly or in this national assembly. At the same time, it was also the government's opinion that this was not appropriate because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would handle these matters on its own. There are a few things out of this. If the National Assembly once again agrees to this theory of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, I fear that it will not have an appropriate law in this area, the trend of which shows growth, for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Proposer, colleague of Peca. Does the government want to communicate its position? I do not see them, so I will give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Brejc's colleague is not here, so I invite my colleague Majdo Zupan to present the position of the New Slovenia Group. After her colleague Potrat, first colleague Majda Zupan for New Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! The education days of the state prosecutors in Bled recently ended. On this occasion, we have heard, inter alia, that prosecutors have done a great deal, especially in relation to crimes against the sexual inviolability of minors and children, and have achieved higher prison sentences. Madam Prosecutor has rushed with appreciation and has been pleased that the prosecutor's efforts have been given an appropriate response in the judiciary, in the public and in the Member States, because there is a debate on the increase in penalties or efforts to impose more severe penalties. Is that really true? The fact is that a bill on amendments and additions to the Penal Code on this subject was tabled in the legislative process in 2000. And then the next year, and this change is also ahead of us. While the legislative and legal service considers that the proposal is not sufficiently prepared and that the sole content of the proposed amendments is to raise the penalties at risk for certain crimes against sexual inviolability. We are convinced, however, that the applicants have been guided by the desire to move and reduce the number of crimes in this area. The company's tolerance for these acts and the perpetrators was all too long. Even in the case of judges, although they could have imposed higher penalties under existing legislation, they did not. The greater openness of society, greater information and the demands of various associations have only helped to raise the issue more. Numbers and consequences also indicate that something needs to be done. About 200 rapes have been reported annually in Slovenia. How many undeclared persons are not able to say precisely because victims find it difficult to report violence because they are often treated as guilty in excruciating procedures. The consequences of sexually abused children are also catastrophic. In fact, the perpetrators do not deserve any excuse. We agree with the government that it was necessary to prepare comprehensive amendments to the penal code. The partial system is collapsing the system. The penalties must certainly be proportionate. The first amendments and additions should already be in the expert debate. On parliamentary rations, however, we are only expecting a proposal for a law in January or February. We are of the opinion that it is necessary to act quickly, as the crimes against sexual inviolability have also reached a great deal by means of new means of communication. Our decision will depend on the arguments we will also hear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Collegiate Majda Potrat will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, colleague Barovic for the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished fellow Members! The UK Group will not support the proposed amendment to the Penal Code, but will decide to support the proposed decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Therefore, allow me to justify this decision by the Group of Members. The proposed text does not contain a complement to the penal code, but only proposes amendments concerning the level of crimes at risk against sexual inviolability. In doing so, promotions are proposed for individual types of criminal offences without specific justifications, although there is a wide variety of high modification of the minimum and maximum penalties at risk, and an equalization of the penalty for the basic and qualified form of the offence. However, it does not take into account other provisions of the Penal Code, which makes the amount of the sentence imposed in specific cases more likely to be higher than the level of imprisonment already threatened. Since the Government's opinion and the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly point to the inadequacy and inadequacy of the proposed amendments, which foresee only an increase in the prescribed penalties, in the Group of Members, we therefore believe that, on the other hand, the Government's announcement that the criminal law should be amended is to wait more carefully on the proposal of the Government, which will also cover other necessary changes, and also for the offences under consideration, to propose the weighed and comprehensive solutions examined in the sections. We also believe that it is essential to know the views of the judiciary before deciding on changes in criminal policy, as only the data obtained from the State Prosecutor's Office, the police and the ministry can be assessed at the request of the Committee after the first hearing. However, it can be found from the above material that the proportion of offences against sexual inviolability does not increase, as stated by the drafter of the law. The State Prosecutor's Office has pointed out that recent increases in sentences have also been made, so it would be good to know the views of other professions that can help greatly, particularly to prevent all forms of human dignity violations. For it does not appear to be overlooked that solutions should be complex, for the profession notes that in most cases they are not a single act, but a recurring and prolonged crime. Some legislative changes have also addressed at least some of the shortcomings and weaknesses that have been painful, especially for the victims. Therefore, it can be hoped that all of this will affect the number of exposed and punished perpetrators of crimes that fatally mark victims, often for the rest of their lives and strongly create positive self-images. We therefore believe that, with thorough and comprehensive expertise, such a proposal for amendments to the penal code should be prepared, which will also take account of other necessary changes. The sensitivity of society to sexual inviolability and thus to the preservation of human dignity in adults, and especially in children, has also increased greatly among us. As the threshold of tolerance for such acts is declining, criminal policy must also follow. However, I stress that we must not be led by an effect, but primarily by the thought of an effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Will you, Comrade Barovic, communicate the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members? After you, Comrade Kangler for the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u8	We will, of course, support the proposal of the Slovenian National Party. Just because we're thinking of effect. For if this did not guide us, then we would again trust the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and wait for the next six years for such or related law to be drawn up. On behalf of the Group, however, allow me to say only two chapters: First, to the National Assembly, to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Pahor has received over 3,500 signatures of support to this Act. I think it's a number that was triggered on the basis of one of the weekly newspapers that also dictates consideration to this national council. On the other hand, I would like only to read a quote from one of the judgments in this area. "The District Court has sentenced a 60-year-old teacher from around Ljubljana, now in retirement, to one year and six months in prison on probation, for a period of four years. For seven crimes of sexual assault on children." I will read again: "In particular, for seven crimes of sexual assault against children. For every act after three months in prison." And if at these moments you find it reasonable to insist on an existing penal code, which I told you in the introduction, does not break the system. Because the fact that it's breaking the penal code system could only land on condition that it's comparable to a car theft or a sexual assault. And because I think that this is not comparable or because I know that this is not comparable, I argue and insist that, of course, the bill does not break the system of penalties. In the Slovenian National Party, once again, we will support the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr Kangler will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and his colleague, Jakič, on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u10	We support the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group to tighten their penalties for sexual inviolability. From the content and from the magnetogram, which is also reflected on the position of the Committee, which was presented on the Internal Policy Committee in its own consideration of the proposal tabled by its fellow Member, respected by Saša Peca, it has been made clear, including from some other Members, that the proposal proposed, the increase in the penalty for sexual inviolability and sexual violence against younger persons, has political support for the increase in penalties and penal policy to change this phenomenon in society. However, on the proposal of some individuals and on the proposal of government representatives, the Government is preparing and should bring into the procedure both the Criminal Procedure Act and the Criminal Code, which would have a substantive impact on this area of sexual violence and sexual inviolability on a person under the age of fourteen or a minor, was the position of the Group of Members not to support this law. And to give the government the opportunity to enter the procedure immediately at the beginning of 2003 into the State Assembly with a thorough substantive intervention, both in law and law. In fact, we ourselves find in the Slovenian People's Party that the country often deals mainly with the criminal policy of the perpetrator who committed such a crime. I think it is high time that the government, in some way, through the Criminal Procedure Act, introduces a special institute for the protection of the injured person who is injured in such a crime in the court itself. No one's dealing in this country with the victim. Everyone's dealing with the perp. By increasing the penalties for these crimes, these phenomena, sexual inviolability and sexual abuse and abuse of children and sexual violence against young people, we do not achieve that effect. It is also important to ask how we will ensure that the victim involved in sexual violence is as easily and as easily as possible overcoming the proceedings pending before a court. Anyone who has not had the opportunity and opportunity to see such a procedure in court would probably be very disappointed today as a politician sitting in this national assembly. What and how the perpetrator and the advocate of the offender may benefit from such a sacrifice that has already been so personal, dignified, and emotionalally affected in the act itself is even more affected by the process itself. And in some ways, we also find within the parliamentary group that, because there is no real system, which in some way would also protect the victims on the one hand, on the other hand provide a stronger and more effective criminal policy towards the one that caused such a crime. The statistics are also not real, with both the prosecution and the Slovenian police on the one hand. Many victims, precisely because of those proceedings before judges before the Senate, do not hope to report a crime of sexual violence or abuse of a person under 14 years of age. I mean, if we ensure that in some way the victims will be protected, that a special treatment for such a victim will be applied through the Criminal Procedure Act, that the public will be excluded, that the victim will only appear once or twice before a judge without going a year, for two years to be considered, that the hearings are suspended. And in this way, if we introduce a special institute within the legislation to protect the victim, we can expect a number of victims to find their courage and criminality to announce to the competent authorities responsible for the prosecution of these crimes. By not supporting the Slovenian People's Party's Group's proposal, the Slovenian People's Party will support a proposal that will lead to the government and will take more or less into account all those requirements that have been made on the Internal Policy Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u11	My colleague Jakič will move forward with the position of the Liberal Democracy Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u12	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Nor will the LDS Group support this law because it does not agree with the way and the amendment itself. Why? In our view, it is not possible to prescribe penalties at the level proposed by the proposer. The amount of the penalty must follow the system of the penal code. The proposaler also proposes a 15-year prison sentence for a qualified form of crime. The most common and typical cases of a criminal offence are described in the description of the underlying form of the crime of rape. In a qualified form, however, the situation is added, which is so important that, of course, there is a reason for a different actual, more severe criminal framework, for example, when it comes to sexual assault services in a horrendous or particularly humiliating way. Both crimes are not comparable in proportion and for systemic reasons they have been violated. Otherwise, in the Group of Members, we advocate the punishment of perpetrators of such acts, as our society as a transit society has been increasingly transformed into violent, aggressive and intolerant, and many people, of course, are being transferred to their social life and to their gender relations. The number of crimes against sexual inviolability is on the rise, and it is particularly worrying that most of these acts are never discovered because of their obsessive nature. Therefore, the State must introduce a number of measures to eliminate violence and reduce its consequences, one of which is to amend criminal law only as one of the necessary mechanisms. However, by placing a specific offence in the criminal system, the State declares that the act is considered to be extremely socially harmful or inappropriate and indicates that it will be prosecuted and punished by a repressive apparatus. Thus, the penalty has two purposes, according to our Group of Members, which is generally preventive and specifically preventive. Of course, general prevention has two effects, an impact on people not to commit crimes and, of course, an impact on the strengthening of their social values in their consciousness. However, the Special Prevention has an impact on the perpetrator of the crime and, in our view, in the opinion of the parliamentary group, the perpetrator should be removed from the road and away from the victim. For it must not happen that after four interrogations, it is said or after four rejuvenations of an act of rape, in front of criminals, in front of an investigative judge and then in a court of law, after a few weeks, that the rapist again meets again as he walks freely in his or her surroundings. Therefore, alone in these low and disgusting acts of rape, pedophilia, sexual abuse of a weaker person, violations of sexual inviolability, abuse of the position by teachers, priests, parents, give due weight mainly to special prevention and, of course, exempt the offender for a long time. But what's the problem? What's our problem? The penalties imposed on the perpetrators are too mild in our opinion. This is not the case with the law, but especially with the courts which impose penalties in specific cases. We are outraged at the conduct of the courts, which almost equivalent the imposition of low sentences of rape to the seizure of a deer. I don't know why the court deals so much with the perpetrators instead of protecting the victims, because the penalties imposed are often a mockery of the victims. Therefore, courts should act more responsibly in terms of the protection of human dignity and in the interests of the moral well-being of those affected. All of this speaks in favour of amending the Penal Code, and we should significantly increase the lower limit of punishment, because unfortunately our courts still impose sentences in the first third of the sentence at risk. Raising the lower limit would force the judges to be punished more severely. More than once, statistics: In Slovenia, 93 people were convicted of sexual violence by sentence of imprisonment in 2001. The highest penalty was awarded to one perpetrator. One perp. Almost half of the perpetrators have been sentenced under one year. But of course, comprehensive policy must also cover other activities in the field of prevention and assistance to victims of violence, which has already been said today. To conclude, the Group will not support the law because the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has promised to include these provisions in the Government's amendment of the Penal Code. If that's not the case, we're going to amend the law. The government promised that this would be in the process in January. If that is not the case, the law will be amended by Members and Members themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u13	Thank you, too, Comrade Jakič. We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We will today vote on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body in accordance with the meeting's timetable after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. That concludes this point until then. At 10:35 a.m., we will continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u14	We're moving to 8. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Guarantee and Maintenance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. I give my word to a representative or a representative. Mrs Belopavlovich, Secretary of State, you have the floor for a brief presentation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Dear Members and honourable Members! The reasons for amending and supplementing the Law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia are as follows: The law needs to be aligned with the new Public Funds Act, which changes the title of the law and those articles in which the name of the Fund needs to be changed accordingly. The second amendment is the European Union Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the protection of workers in the event of the insolvency of their employer. This Directive does not provide for the density of the working age or the density of the employment to obtain the right from the guarantee institution and since our law provided that the worker in the company must have been employed before the end of the working relationship for at least three months, was not in accordance with the quoted Directive and should be harmonised or amended in this part. The third reason for amending the law is compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act. And the last change I would like to point out is the elimination of censorship in the exercise of maintenance rights. This means that children living in a family where income per family member exceeds 55% of the average salary in the country in the previous year, including those who did not have those rights, will also have the right to a future subsistence allowance. The Home Committee, i.e. the Committee on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, has drafted an amendment to Article 12, which is of editorial nature and is fully supported by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mrs. Belopavlovich. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. I ask the chairman of the committee to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. Nicely greeted! At its 26th regular meeting on 4.12.2002, the Committee considered the draft law and prepared it as such for plenary decision-making. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, in particular the specific comment on Article 12. Only one proposal for amending the law was tabled in the bill, it is said that only one amendment was tabled by a fellow Member of Parliament, Dr Cukjati, for whom we concluded in the debate that it had been tabled quite correctly, that it had been carried out or that there was a typographical error in transposing the text of the bill, and therefore this amendment was practically immaterial and also withdrawn by the applicant. In line with the conclusion of the legislative and legal service relating to Article 12, we have prepared, in cooperation with the applicant, an amendment to Article 12, as follows from the review, and the Committee has also adopted it. That's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. The views of the delegations will now be presented. First of all, my colleague Tsukati, the position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, is followed by a colleague of mags. It's a trifle. Let's get my buddy Tucky first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u19	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In 1997, the adoption of the law governing the guarantee fund, of course, set things up in the situation at that time, but it has proved to be contrary to the Council of Europe directive, where it is specified or where there is no condition for the benefit that the guarantee fund should provide to workers who are insolvent employers, this is due to bankruptcy, forcible settlement, without their own fault, without jobs and without income. Well, this novel is now correcting it in accordance with the Council of Europe Directive. At the same time, of course, the fund will no longer be left to itself and will no longer be subject to the risk of its own illiquidity, so the Republic of Slovenia will guarantee it, as is appropriate in the social state. Another problem is the issue of maintenance, which we settled in 1999. It turned out that this maintenance fund was urgently needed, but it was insufficient and did not perform the function it was supposed to perform. Thus, it ensured the security of the care of children who are, in one way or another, victims of separate parents or who are even in a single - parent family. So this fund is very restrictive in terms of allocating nutrients, replacing nutrients. There are many obstacles before such a child receives maintenance or compensation for unpaid maintenance and the current novelty of this obstacle slightly, I stress, overcomes, eliminates them, and we feel that now it will be easier and faster to compensate for the maintenance. Of course, the country may be a little more obliged to recover its livelihoods, as we know that out of 43,000 children, a third of them are dependent on a separate parent, according to social work centres. Well, we certainly think that this is a positive step towards ensuring the social rights of children, but of course we hope for a final step and that this trend will continue. We support the law, we also support the amendment adopted by the Committee because it is essentially an editorial matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u20	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Drobnič will present the position of the Novi Slovenije Group, followed by counterpart Črnugelj. First of all, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u21	Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives or government representatives, welcome! Allow me to deliver an opinion or to present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the new law or amendments to the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund is certainly of undeniable importance, to ensure and settle the obligations incurred by employers due to the employer's insolvency, therefore because it is not possible to provide workers with an obligation. The law was extended in 97 to the maintenance part by which rights are granted to children or parents who maintain that child in the event that other rights or obligations are not guaranteed due to non-payment of maintenance. The change indicated is certainly necessary. Not only because we want to bring our legislation into line with the rules of the European Union, but also because these relations are becoming more and more acute between those at the social bottom and those who have something to harmonise and level up. The purpose of the institution is certainly to cover all claims arising but not only limited. However, the amount of the payment may be limited, which we agree with. The problem is bankruptcy for a guarantee fund that could be indicated and consequences. I hope and I am sure, and the country must also guarantee that this will not happen. However, I warn you, colleagues and colleagues, that this stable situation is certainly also facilitated by the consistent conduct of the State authorities in the sense of fulfilling the obligations of the law. That those who are obliged to provide funds and payments to the Fund to provide them as well, or that those who are obliged to pay the debtors in the event of an undertaking to do so. And that the State also ensures, through audit and audit legislation, that cases of insolvency, particularly of long duration, do not occur. We also agree that there is no censorship to eliminate the price in providing child support. This raises the following question: a small share of the accrued liabilities from the debtors for maintenance payments. The report on the Fund, the Maintenance Fund, speaks of a very small proportion being reimbursed. If I do some caricatures, it recovers about as much as the costs of those who run the procedures, these are external services to make them more successful, so say those who are employed in state institutions. This is what I wanted to point out and what Nova Slovenija points out - that the state authorities, all the competent authorities that are committed to paying maintenance, pay for it, and that they will do everything to make it happen, that there will be no return under 10%, but that there will be some normal heights. It is also important to note the point I have already mentioned, i.e. avoiding the payment of taxes to the budget. While some do not meet the obligation to pay wage workers, managers provide their contracts through businesses to avoid paying taxes. In this way, of course, we will not come anywhere and the budget deficit will increase. Otherwise, we do not oppose the law itself in the New Slovenia Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Colleague Silva Črnugelj will present the position of the United List of Social Democrats delegation, followed by counterpart Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known representatives of the government, Mrs. Natasa Belopavlovich and Lily Hungarian! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the guarantee and maintenance fund of Slovenia following a reduced procedure. Since its inception in 1997, this law has undergone quite a few changes, since this time a guarantee fund has been established by law as a fund for the settlement of obligations incurred by employers and they have not been able to provide workers with them due to insolvency. Then the marriage was reprinted three more times. The most important novelties were when the Fund was also renamed and the Fund's powers were substantially extended by a new additional task of covering children's rights to compensation for unpaid maintenance. With the adoption of the Law on Public Funds, a new regime for the operation of public funds has also entered into force for this Guarantee Maintenance Fund. It is important to know that, in accordance with Directive 80/987 of the European Union, the assets of the guarantee institution must not be subject to bankruptcy or compulsory settlement. The Fund also decides on the very important rights of children in the case of non-payment of maintenance, i.e. all forms of payment of maintenance allowances. The condition for the acquisition of this right, which is currently precisely defined only in the guidelines on procedures for the exercise of the right to reimbursement of maintenance, could be indicated in the law in a more accessible manner. This law also removes one restriction by which only a child living in a family whose income per family member does not exceed 55% of the average salary in the country in the previous year is entitled to a maintenance allowance. This eliminates the abandonment of children living in single - parent families and the failure of dependents to contribute to the survival of joint children. Thus, a wider range of persons will have the opportunity to obtain the right to a maintenance allowance. Such enforcement only strengthens the rule of law and, in particular, the social state. The implementation of this novel also ensures the fulfilment of Article 26 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, by which every child under the age of 28 is entitled to social protection and other rights. We have always advocated such a structure of rights in the United Social Democrats' Group of Members, especially in order to increase them, with which primary and necessary social protection will be granted to the most vulnerable groups of the population. In this respect, all proposed amendments to this Act are also addressed, but we rightly ask ourselves in the United Nations Group how the complex procedure for obtaining this right will affect its actual accessibility and enforcement. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we believe that it is very important to harmonise the law with the personal data protection law and is welcome because personal data protection is an important component of the rule of law that strengthens the individual's personal integrity. In the UK Group, we believe that there is a need for a thorough analysis of the implementation of the law, in particular of the financial part, because we believe that the results of this analysis and the findings will probably point to other or different changes in the law and not just those that were necessary in order to comply with the legislation already adopted or with the European directives already in force, because a comprehensive review of the functioning of these funds in European countries shows significant differences in the functioning of these funds and of different approaches to solving such a major problem. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the law along with the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much, colleague nigger. Mr Brenčič will present to us the views of the SLS Group, followed by his colleague Levič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u25	Thank you very much again for your word. First of all, I owe a brief notification that the report contained in the text of the amended proposal of the law fell under the second paragraph of Article 27b and that is why we are submitting it in the correction of the report. However, as far as our group is concerned, we can see that the proposal for a law is merely the technical coordination of the existing law on the guarantee and maintenance fund, both with the European Union directives and with the law on the protection of personal data and the law on public funds. Therefore, we do not have any personal comments. This, of course, removes the income tax on a family member who restricted the right to receive a child support allowance in accordance with the Directives. We certainly support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr Levič will present the views of the Youth Party's Group of Members and, finally, the colleague of the LDS Group of Members. First of all, Comrade Levich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u27	Hello! Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposal for a law on the guarantee and maintenance fund is another one of the many that we are adapting to the directives, which the European Union requires of us. Only that this law is about increasing rights, both for workers who lose their income due to insolvency, as for children who are left without the support of one of the parents. And that's good. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will support the proposed law because we believe that the restrictions that have been laid down in the law so far are detrimental to both workers and children, since their rights have been limited by incomprehensible restrictions on which they themselves have not had any impact. The Guarantee and Maintenance Fund has been set up specifically to guarantee workers that if the employer is unable to pay their salaries and other benefits to them, this payment will be guaranteed by the State through the Fund. It seems so much more incomprehensible to limit at least three months of employment because companies with financial problems and threatened with bankruptcy are more forgiving than are hiring new workers. The recession in the world is showing up with us. Above all, in the textile and footwear industry, where more forgiveness can be expected in the future. The surpluses of workers will also show up in the construction industry when the highway construction programme is completed. In many of these companies, the fines due to unpaid salaries range from month to month. The Guarantee and Maintenance Fund is the only guarantee to these workers that they will be paid all those salaries and benefits for those months when they had the job. Children who are certainly the least guilty of growing up in single - parent families have the right to receive maintenance from another parent. The set-up of the various prices in which they were entitled to a maintenance allowance is almost ridiculous. Children living in families with both parents thus have all the material possessions that parents can provide, regardless of how high their wages are and how much money on average comes from an individual member. After this law, children who are already so deprived of living together with both parents are deprived of their livelihood because the parent they live with earns too much. However, the absurdity may be even greater, the government has also found itself, and in the explanation of the law, it states that in individual cases the child has exceeded the limited price due to the subsistence allowance paid and thus lost the right to maintenance and regained it the following year. And the worst part is, it's happening in low-income families. Of course, the desire of all to keep such cases as little as possible so that those parents who leave the family can continue to care for their children financially as well as regularly as possible. But we have to think about kids who don't have that kind of luck. But they have every right to it. We are also reminded of this by the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the State must ensure, through the Fund, that at least such children will not be harmed financially. This is why we will support the proposal for a law in the Young Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Finally, the position of the Liberal Democracy Group will be presented by a colleague of Stopar's. And then we're going to break this point. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u29	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I have a very nice greeting to all of you! The Government has sent a draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Guarantee and Maintenance Fund of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for consideration following a reduced procedure with a view to complying with the Law on Public Funds and European Union legislation. Since the current law, which has been amended several times, has provided a condition for obtaining the right, it is that the worker must be employed by the employer at least or at least three months before the end of the working relationship so that he can exercise the right to pay some outstanding claims from the guarantee fund. The news is also an end to censorship. This amendment of the law removes the restriction on the right to compensation of only children from a single-parent family in which income per family member does not exceed 55% of the average salary in the country in the previous year. By lifting this limit, we will achieve equal treatment for children up to the age of 18. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia welcome this change, because we know that it has been right to overturn the current censorship and to reject quite a number of applications or to be at peace. However, since families with extremely low incomes are mainly affected, this change gives them the opportunity to obtain the right to provide maintenance compensation to the wider circle of affected families. This also fulfils the State's commitment to help provide maintenance or provide material support to the child. We also believe that the path to this right will be shorter and perhaps easier. The amendments also concern the protection of personal data, as required by Article 35 of the Personal Data Protection Act. The Liberal Democracy Group will support the law as well as the amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u30	Thank you very much, fellow hitchhikers. We have thus concluded a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. No amendments have been tabled to the draft law, so it is not possible to discuss the articles. I am therefore concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The third reading of the bill, this is only a decision on it, will be held today, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda; until then, I am also terminating this item. I hereby adjourn the session until 11:10 p.m. when we move on to agenda 9, this is the third reading of the bill on offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u31	It's 11 and 10 minutes. It is time to continue the 21st session of the National Assembly. We're moving on to break nine. Period of the day, that's a third defensive proposal for a law on trespasses. The draft law was drafted by the Government for the third hearing of the assembly. I'm asking the Minister in his resignation and the candidate for Minister if he wants a word. Secretary of State, please. You have the floor, Mr Secretary of State, and then the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u32	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! I would like to say briefly, in anticipation of the adoption of the law by the National Assembly, what the applicant plans to achieve his purpose at the time of application of the provisions. A key change is seen in the introduction of the so-called rapid procedure. This is a procedure that allows the offences to be dealt with and the decision made by the criminal authorities. This results in the unloading of current judges for offences or in the future courts of the highest number of cases in which they are still participating in the proceedings only during the stage of the provision of judicial protection. However, there are also several cases in the new system in which courts will also deal with offences at the first stage. In such cases, a rapid procedure shall not be allowed. It is a case where there has been a physical injury, where there is also a need to impose a foreign sanction in addition to the fine, in the case of proceedings against juvenile offenders, in the case of offences in the field of defence duties and in other cases, where the law so provides. However, this provision of the law has a very important provision that, even in these cases which I have listed, the procedure may be conducted by a criminal authority if another law so prescribes. This means that, within a period of two years from the law, from the entry into force of the law, if adopted, until its application, there is sufficient time for the proposer, together with all ministries and, of course, with the National Assembly, when the provisions on sanctions are coordinated with the new law on offences, to provide for any prescribed sanction if he reaches an expert and political agreement on this matter that a rapid procedure may be imposed in accordance with this exception, irrespective of the nature of the procedure for which the ordinary procedure for offences would otherwise be required. In this way, further burdens can be achieved on the courts for offences or courts which will deal with offences at first instance. And even in these cases, they decide only on the request for judicial protection, which means that, when the Judges for Offences are merged with the Judges of the Regular Courts, the future membership of these cases will be easily managed. Another important area in which much can be done until the law is applied is the regulatory framework given by the law to the government and the Minister of Justice for the issue of sub-laws, which provides for empowered persons to decide on the rapid procedure, their education, their professional conditions, and also provides for the education needed to take over those tasks. During a period of two years, it is possible for each criminal authority, and this is also planned by the applicant, to conduct interviews to record the situation of the staff they have at their disposal, their education, their skills. And within two years, logistically, personnel will be prepared to take over the mission as of 1 January 2005. The third area in which it is possible to do so in these two years and will have to do everything the law provides for is the area of the merger of judges for offences with district courts or a Senate for offences with higher courts. In this area, too, the law gives the Minister a normative framework to accurately anticipate the acquisition of workers, the taking over of premises, the taking over of archives, the taking over of open cases, and is two years long enough for these logistical preparations to actually take place in order to effectively continue the work of the judges for offences on 1 January. Thus, I believe that the law makes it possible to achieve its objectives by a provision which gives sufficient time to all those involved to prepare. Last but not least in the financial field, since the application of the Act from 1 January 2005 means the application in the financial year still open and it will also be possible to foresee these consequences, in view of all the activities that will take place for the application of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Some parliamentary groups, first of all the New Slovenia Group, will now become clear on the law. I ask my colleague Majdo Zupan to state his position, because Comrade Petan of the Social Democratic Party withdrew his performance. I'll see you next.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! 4,700 types of offences, as far as we know them, are regulated in more than 315 laws and regulations, and even more at local level, are not a negligible number. They are dealt with by a number of bodies, from administrative to judicial, but only rarely in turn with offenders. Procedures are not effective, which is strongly felt by state cash registers. The recovery system doesn't work, it's internally decomposed, the situation is unenviable. Last year alone, the state failed to recover around 14 billion tons of fines imposed, which of course means that the state recovered less than 10% of the fines and costs of the procedure. Some 200,000 outstanding cases and at least 50,000 obsolete cases remained on the shelves. It appears that the judges decide primarily on offences under the Road Traffic Safety Act for which the penalty points or termination of the driving licence are prescribed and on certain inspection matters. The proposer wants a new reform, a new system based on two assumptions: the criminal authorities are expected to act quickly and effectively and the perpetrators will receive the lowest penalty for immediate payment. Police officers, inspectors, customs officers and others will assume the greatest burden as criminal authorities. Infringements will only be detected and proved, but will also be sanctioned. But are they qualified enough not to allow their potential incompetence and abuse of authority to make everything worse? Only the police will deal with almost 70% of all violations. Because of this and because of their mistakes, possible mistakes, will people still have to look for their rights in a larger number in court? However, since the state has not been able to effectively regulate payment discipline in recent decades in order for citizens to pay what they should, it is now trying to knock on their minds. Almost every offender who has been sufficiently persistent in challenging the provisions has been paid in such a way that the case is obsolete. The problem, therefore, is that the state could not regulate the effectiveness of the procedure, allowing the abuse of legal remedies and, in the end, not being able to collect money. We have a feeling that with the proposal he wants everything that he can't handle, he wants to settle at the expense of his citizens. However, this reform places a heavy burden on the judiciary, where the situation is already difficult and will continue to deteriorate with the accession of the offences. I warned the President of the Supreme Court that after such reform in the Slovenian courts in three years' time, we should not be hearing a million pending cases. In our New Slovenia Group, we have prepared amendments to limit offences and sanctions only to decision-making bodies and not to the courts. The amendments were not accepted. In doing so, we wonder whether the solutions offered by the ruling coalition are sufficiently thought out, whether there is yet another reform in the judiciary that will fail, which will be reflected in particular in the ever-increasing judicial backlogs, while offenders will continue to live without fear of having to answer for their violations and judges will not have to be afraid of their jobs. For such a proposal for a law on offences that do not convince us, we will not vote in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u35	Thank you very much, colleague Zupan. My colleague, Miran Potrč, will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. The colleague of Peca also withdrew his performance, followed by his colleague Trofenik, if he comes to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u36	Thank you very much. With the adoption of the bill on offences, we will conclude important legislative work. Legislative regulation of offences, especially the implementation of existing laws, has been an important area of assessment, change and criticism in recent years. The substantive rules governing infringements have increased significantly. Not only because previous offences have qualified as offences, but also because of the significant increase in the number of legal persons and the number of potential offenders, but also because of the fact that we have adopted every law in the National Assembly, which has significantly increased the definition of unlawful acts, which has resulted in an uncontrollable number of offences which the competent authorities have not been able to resolve in an objective manner. Thus, the number of applications submitted and the procedures initiated, which resulted in the conclusion of ageing, continued to increase. The system of offences has become ineffective and has no longer achieved its objective. In addition, questions about their administrative or judicial status with the possibility of imposing a prison sentence or not have also been raised as to the conditions and procedures for their election and so on. In short, there is no doubt that the field of organ regulation and infringement proceedings required serious, legal amendment. Only minor corrections to the current system would certainly not resolve and resolve all essential issues and ensure the effectiveness and functioning of the rule of law in this important area. As with any fundamental systemic change, the proposal of this law has also been dealt with in a variety of conceptual, organisational and inexorable ways. Most of them have been thoroughly informed. However, some of the solutions were also adopted on the basis of assumptions and confidence in the amendments that were tabled at the conclusion of the second reading. These solutions are still considered inappropriate by the competent authorities. Regrettably, theorists, contractors and administrative authorities could not fully agree and coordinate. Nevertheless, even by belief in the United List of Social Democrats in all the other problems and solutions that I have listed before, the adoption of the law does not indicate a delay and is prepared to be supported. We will support it, but we are aware that in its practical effects it will start to give the alipa first in two years, as its use is envisaged from 1.1.2005. We consider this to be a good solution, as it will be possible to re-examine, prepare everything for their implementation, adopt the necessary sub-legislative acts, so that criminal authorities will be trained to play their new role, to prepare and adopt new amendments to the penal code and law on criminal procedure, and that the reorganisation of judicial authorities will also be carried out in such a way as not to create new congestion and backlogs. With regard to all these tasks, the Ministry responsible shall bear the highest responsibility. We expect these tasks to be successful and I am pleased that, in his introduction to them and everything the Ministry is waiting for, the Secretary of State, Mr Jenull, has also pointed out. Therefore, at the time of preparation for the implementation of the new law, it will be possible to assess the existing differences and correct the minor weaknesses, so that the new law can be expected to have full effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u37	Thank you, Comrade Potsch. Comrade Trofenik is not among us, so we are putting an end to the presentation of the position of the members of the groups. There will now be a word on the proposal of the law in its entirety by colleagues and colleagues. Comrade Jerovšek, you have been declared for your word. Do you want it? [[No, no, ……]] A colleague of Zupanov's. [[Not at all.]] My friend Levich is not here. That's how we have time to discuss it if someone else wants to take advantage of it. I take it there's no such interest. No amendments have been tabled to the bill and the articles cannot be discussed. After the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda, we will also make a decision on the proposal for a law tonight. Until then, I'm breaking up with this point. At 11:00 and 50 minutes, we will move on to the third reading of the proposal for a law restricting alcohol consumption. There is a much broader discussion forecast. So at 11.50, we will continue with the 21st session. Until then, I'm adjourning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u38	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving on to 10. Period of the day-- third defensively proposing a law restricting the consumption of alcohol. The draft law was prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for third reading. I salute the Minister, Dr. Kebra, and I give him my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! There is a law before you that we have discussed in broad, long and tolerant ways. Allow me not to conventionally repeat the basic meanings of the law. I would like to say that I think that we have reached, at least in part, in your opinions, but also in the public opinion, that we are not actually adopting a law that works only through its restrictive articles, but that there is a law before us that wants to cut into longer-term values, into the culture of a nation, in the habit of drugs, which is alcohol. Of course, we do not blind ourselves to the fact that in this country the attitude towards alcohol is different from that of smoking, and we cannot, although we would hope to achieve similar success in the field of alcohol in the coming years as we have in the area of smoking, which has been reduced by one third in this country. However, we hope that this law could also be a part of the contribution. On this occasion, I would like to thank once again all the members of the opposition and the coalition, and of course I am pleased to say that, despite the different public debate announcements to follow this law, and I hope this time, at the end of this debate, that we are also surprised at the level of debate, which is also prevalent in the public, and in spite of the anecdotic cases of different debates, I think that in this way citizens have also shown some acceptance or that this law is largely welcomed and that they expect the effects that can be expected from the law itself. With this introduction, I would like to conclude and mention only the amendment of the Government accompanying this third reading to Article 15 which is the result of coordination with the amendments adopted in the context of the second reading of this Act. It is the harmonisation of Articles 7, 10 and 12 of the draft law. Well, there's a government amendment ahead of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u40	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I give the full floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views on the draft law. Mr France Tsukati of the Social Democratic Party will first speak, then Mrs Tisovic, Mrs Črnugelj, Mr Barovic, Mr Brenčič and Mrs Širca, in this order. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u41	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have a third-reading marriage. A number of dilemmas opened up during the debate. Let me mention that, in fact, some things remained open, with all the good intentions of the law and of the proposer, the following questions remained open. First, in Article 2, the Chamber of Commerce reminds us that the Regulation on the general labelling of pre-packaged foods already states that a food containing alcohol is a food containing 1.2% of alcohol. In this law, we state 0.5%. This is an awkward discrepancy that can cause trouble for all inspections, as well as the conduct of traders on the ground. There are still some questions about how individual provisions will be interpreted, but let us let life show how things will work out and whether there will ever be any need to complement them. However, I would touch on Article 15 where the proposer is a government. Unfortunately, the rules of procedure do not allow us to be a candidate for the amendment as well. Although in this amendment, there are actually things that would be fully supported as a group of Members. Some things in the amendment are editorial in nature and could be accepted as an editorial at the conclusion of the debate. For example, the deletion of the sixth indent of Article 15, paragraph 15, where it refers to the prohibition on the sale of alcoholic beverages during working hours in establishments of public consumption. These establishments are deleted in the law and the indent is unnecessary, irrelevant. However, the amendment of the Government of the Introduced Inspection Institution is an inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work. Of course we thought it was smart, that would be good. However, this is a novelty, this is not an editorial and unfortunately the rules of procedure do not allow this. Furthermore, the amendment introduces a novelty, which also sanctions the sale and supply not only of alcoholic beverages but also of those added to them. This makes sense, but it is a novelty in this article. It could be considered that only things marked as alcoholics, rather than mixtures, will be sanctioned. I don't know how it's gonna turn out, but I'm sure there's some evidence of how severely squandering our rules of procedure are. But unfortunately, you've accepted it and now you have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Ana Tisovic, Nova Slovenija, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Greetings from the government and the greetings of colleagues and colleagues! We adopt a law restricting the use of alcohol. That we Slovenians are a happy nation and that we like to throw away a glass of it is well known. However, overindulgence in alcohol becomes a social problem. Any addiction that results in personality breakdowns is of concern to the individual and also to society. It is therefore essential that we act as far as we are concerned in this area. In Slovenia we have many accidents caused by alcohol. There are many suicides and more violence in families under the influence of alcohol. So there is no way that we can keep our eyes closed to these problems, but we need to get to the bottom of it. First, we need to raise our young people a different value system. It must not be appreciated how much we endure alcohol and how we are hit, but how we achieve the goals we set ourselves with sobriety and judgment in life. Long-term guidance on the promotion of moderate drinking and the awareness of young people is urgently needed. There are already many demands of complete abstinence in workplaces, which also has a positive impact on the reduction of alcohol consumption. It seems very important to me that a legal provision is strictly implemented that prohibits the pouring of alcoholic beverages and the addition of alcohol into non-alcoholic beverages and the sale of alcoholic beverages to persons under 18 years of age. These goals are achievable in the long run, as we know that overnight the Slovenians will not change, even if we have such a good marriage. Too strict a law can drive us far from our goal, as the black market for the sale of alcoholic beverages can flourish as quickly as possible. The penalties provided for violators who pour alcoholic beverages to persons under 18 years of age must be carried out consistently, because only in this way will we achieve at least partial success so that our young generations will no longer be intoxicated. It is therefore necessary to strengthen inspection services and improve their functioning. The New Slovenia Group will support this Act on Limited Alcohol Consumption to a certain limit. But the law itself will only be a letter on paper and there is no guarantee of success if we do not take a broader approach in our society to solving this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mrs Silva Crnugelj, United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u45	Thank you, President. Hello, Mr. Keber! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today we are considering the Act on the Limitation of Alcohol, which is also one of the chains of defiant restrictive laws that have raised a lot of dust before they were put into the procedure. We do not read this law as a tobacco law in the UK Group of Social Democrats as a restrictive law, because for us this law is a protection law because it protects the public interest of protecting the health of citizens and citizens, because health is a fundamental value and a good thing of national importance. If data such as, say, 5,000 hospital visits and 90,000 days of hospital leave per year are the result of alcohol consumption, we feel that such a law is all the more necessary. In particular, the law is directed and directed extremely preventive, especially for those who are yet to decide whether to drink or drink excessively. It's a segment of youth up to the age of 18. According to some experts from the World Health Organisation, treatment costs, lower productivity due to increased disease, fire damage, damage to property and loss of income due to premature deaths in individual countries range from 2 to 5% of gross domestic product. The UK Group particularly supports this law because we are aware that the social and other problems related to alcohol are such that they are particularly affected by children, adolescents and young adults, as is said to be the weakest segment of the population to which the United List of Social Democrats devotes a great deal of attention and care in its programmes. In particular, the Group supports measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol consumption, including the provision by which the Ministry of Health, together with other ministries and institutions, experts and government organisations, contribute to the development and implementation of alcohol consumption reduction programmes, as well as to the preparation of implementing programmes. We are aware that solving such a large and wide-ranging problem is not just the task of one ministry, not just the task of the Ministry of Health. As a result, monitoring and evaluating the implementation of these programmes is also a result. In particular, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats supports the provisions relating to the prohibition of the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages to persons under 18 years of age and the prohibition of the direct sale or supply of alcoholic beverages to young people. We support the ban on the sale of alcohol in stores between 9 a.m. and 6 a.m. and the general prohibition in schools, hospitals, museums, especially sports events, because we are aware of the number of accidents and problems in particular between sports events. The labelling of these prohibitions referred to in Article 11 is as important as information and constitutes an effective guarantee for the implementation of this law. In the parliamentary group, we have considered in particular the chapter concerning the supervision of the implementation of the law by the health inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the market inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia, the police, the inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for education and sport. We believe, however, that it will be very difficult to harmonise the functioning of this large number of entities. However, we have done everything in the parliamentary group, and we will do more to enable all these arbitrators to function in a coordinated manner, as they are a very important segment in preventing alcohol. Of course, it remains for all of us to work on education and awareness. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u47	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! According to our assessment of the proposed alcohol law, we are interfering with developments in civil society, which is positive in any way, as we estimate that it is right for the country to take a step in the field of alcohol limitation. On the other hand, I think it makes sense to mention that we are also interfering with the law on the market for the supply and demand of alcoholic beverages. Taken from the economic categories, I think it makes sense that we are aware and at this point pour ourselves some pure wine, what the law will accomplish. The fact is that the demand for alcoholic beverages is a kind of rigid demand and that the shift from this stiffness is achieved only in young generations where this demand can be described as elastic. On the other hand, we limit the offer by this law. From this, or in the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that we will be able to limit alcohol restrictions in young people within a short period of time. If we are to achieve this, of course, this national assembly and, of course, the proposer has achieved their purpose. But in the long run, of course, young generations will go to older generations. So we want to say that, at this point, this national assembly, and I believe that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministry, too, have been aware of this fact that we cannot expect any effect from this law at this time. This effect could be achieved by turning the younger generation into an older generation. In the Slovenian National Party, we wish all those institutions and, of course, the Ministry of the Interior good luck in the exercise of supervision. Because effective control alone will achieve the reality or desired effect of this law in young people and in their demand. We'll support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u49	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We support the proposal and the concept of the law throughout, but of course, the purpose. But we stop, I personally stop a little bit more, just at the time of Article 10. I'm still going to say that Article 10 may be a bit too rigid, too tight. I'm sorry that somehow we haven't found some will to just think about the tourist centers, some habits of people who aren't bad enough to be a little less restrictive. Perhaps it also raises a question of protocol matters, which are somehow also included in the concept of this law if we take it by letter. I've been a little alerted. In particular, I mean this last or last sentence of the second paragraph of Article 10. In practice, we will put the workers in the restaurant first and the cashiers in a very difficult position. She will be that crucial arbitrator, whether the law will be fulfilled or not. She'll just have to refuse to order her guest to have a guest tea with, I don't know, rum. And rejecting the necessity of someone who will come to the cash register after 21:00, regardless of the fact that the official time is selling until 22, of course for the bottle, if it is alcohol, whatever it is, back. Above all, I draw attention to the practicality of the application or implementation of this law in the tourist environment. I'd be here a little less strict and give at least an hour nine, eight o'clock. By eight o'clock people go to jobs, we're only eight, housewives, tourists on the market. But we will certainly support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Shirca on behalf of Liberal Democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u51	Respectable. I have a feeling that this law is not being taken very seriously by the fact that it is a foreign or neutral product of the Ministry of Health. I would like to stress why it is not worth underestimating, just as it is not worth underestimating the tobacco we discussed today, yesterday or today. Remember that at the very beginning of Dr. Kebra's mandate from the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Health was renamed the Ministry of Health. Certainly it was not a cosmetic change, nor was it a cosmetics issue in opening up a number of health issues that may have been so much more disturbing because they have been rarely introduced or sent peacefully. The name of the Ministry of Health in the Ministry of Health has happened, at least in my understanding, because the Minister has placed in the center of his concern the greatest human occupation, our fear of loss of physical and mental integrity. So say the primary concern and fear of an outsider of us to become unwholesome, ineffective, infective, incurable in short. This is an important shift within the government or within the government, when it has become an important person, not just the system that serves it. We all know that the things inside and outside of us are only appreciated when we lose them. That's the rule. For example, it is difficult to recognize happiness when we live it. We can define it when it surrounds us or when we expect it when we are in its expectation. The same applies to youth, joy, love, and health. When you have it, you don't fully realize it when you lose it, you recognize its price. So try to see this law as a realization of loss, I will not say, destruction of security and tranquility, balance, social and social stability, or as a loss, a doom that can also be fueled by excessive, inappropriate and uncontrollable consumption of alcohol, especially in those under 18 years of age. This law does not mean anything to those who enjoy it as moderate, cultivated consumers. This law only tries to act within the limits of what is lawful or possible within the health of harmful children. And you'll say that's not enough, or that it's not enough, that the reasons go elsewhere, not by banning the sale of spirit drinks in the nighttime shops or the early morning hours of the bars. It's not the only way, but it's one of them, and let's face it, no one else has offered another one in their portfolios. However, no one else has renamed its ministerial department in such a way that a citizen, a citizen, a citizen, a citizen, a citizen can cross the object from the system to the entity. This is, at the time of the market economy, as someone here might say or sometimes claim, and at the time of the drowning of the individual is a worthy act that is trustworthy to him. The merchants of course get angry, the owners of the restaurants, and perhaps the tourists will also escape us because they will not be able to do what they can't do at home in the morning. But what is it against the national interest, that is, health?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u52	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. The draft law is fully under discussion by Members and Members. Mr Jerovšek has the floor first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Mr. Secretary! This law should be or should be part of a systematic fight against alcoholism, which is an exceptional problem in Slovenian society and has increased in recent years. It increased mainly because alcohol is reaching an increasing percentage of the young generation. This is in sharp contrast to what should be done after the government's propaganda. In fact, if there was a success story in this country, if there was positive energy, then alcoholism would be reduced. This is direct evidence that the government, the rule in this country, has not been successful in going in a completely different direction than would have been expected in some normal society. Measures in society should be directed in this direction. This was said to be a protection law. Such a law would only be protected if it were to eliminate these deeper social causes, the social causes, and these are social, material disintegration of this society, the creation of a layer of elites, very rich people, and on the other hand the multitudes of young people, the crowds of people who are in a hopeless position, which is a substrate for the emergence of alcoholism, to interfere with alcohol. This law is not a law of protection. This is a prohibition law in all categories that will have some effect, but we know that prohibition laws also have a number of negative consequences in society. Prohibition is never a complete cure. You wrote in the law that as measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol, they would also implement programmes to promote a healthy lifestyle. I'd agree. Only how can a healthy lifestyle be practiced by someone who is faced with daily anxiety about losing a job that is unemployed. Unemployed by nature cannot cultivate a healthy lifestyle even though it has too much time, but it degrades itself as a person on a daily basis. And in this area, I am sure that this government and also the future, proposed - in the 'hearings' we have seen - that these programmes, this systemic approach to some healthy society of the future government does not offer. For this reason, this law has the role of sedative tablets for Slovenian society and is in fact also an escape or concealment of some real facts. The Ministry of Health has prepared this law as a kind of escape from the fact that it has not prepared system laws and measures in other areas that are extremely urgent. We see that in the area of health we face major problems every day in Slovenian hospitals, people have an increasingly difficult approach to health care. And this is how you try to mislead the Slovenian public in some way, so that such a law, which I personally support, is because in a situation where the government does not have a clear programme to solve this exceptional problem of Slovenia, alcoholism will bring some temporary results. However, this is not a systemic way, it is a relatively poor way to achieve the effects that are urgently needed. I would appeal to the government to finally start working more healthyly at the level of the whole society. It is said that the health, sociological health of society will be better, and for this it is necessary to take completely different measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Petty Officer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. In fact, I would not object to this law because, given that I am a largely driven opponent of alcohol, the content of the provisions is a year old and I think that they will also have a positive effect on reduced consumption, especially alcohol abuse, because alcohol, in whatever form of food, wine, beer and not know what else, is also of economic importance, is also likely for man, but it depends on the way of life. It would certainly touch on the weakness of these provisions, on the basis of which we can then assume that the law will not be realistic or that it remains at the level of any recommendation or declaration. There will be problems in law enforcement, control when it is necessary to determine one way or another, within the meaning of law, whether it is black or white, whether you have violated or not. And this will be the problem, for example, under Article 9 - "for which it is reasonable to assume that they will be referred to persons under the age of eighteen". Now, what's the reasonable assumption? What are the odds of someone rejecting this? In short, if provisions remain at such an operational level, it will be very difficult to implement. At least what is, they will not be viable, or there will be a dispute at the very point of the offence, certainly, but they will not settle it by law enforcement authorities, but probably by the participants themselves. Then, for example, in Article 15, the same doctrine - "... legal and natural persons who sell and offer alcoholic beverages must make available free of charge a sample of drinks, beverages or food for testing or laboratory testing...", in short, any natural person, this law very much affects the personal field. Thus, there may be a number of problems in law enforcement. Otherwise, if the law achieves a reduction in alcohol abuse, especially when it is the cause of accidents, problems in family life, or otherwise, the law will achieve its purpose. I also wonder what we will do in the event of protocol events. It is likely that there will be some substrata, different, even in the lobby, such as the State Council, no more alcohol. I see the chairman's already nodding that there will be no more alcohol. Of course, there are international matters. We'll just get them used to another way of tasting, different customs. There's probably going to be some purely life's problems, but I don't really think that's going to make much difference to me, and it's not going to hurt me. That is why, personally, I do not oppose this law and support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u56	Well, it's not a habit, but it's because you mentioned me, you're gonna give me a nod and so on. The law speaks of a job, a working time and a term that has been very much spent for me, a social diet. Here we will have to discuss what the job is for the Member, and so on. I don't think protocol matters, in my opinion, come into play. But of course I'm not the one who can interpret marriage. We will adopt the law, we will reject it, however it may be, we will see. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the floor. Don't you? Mr. Igor Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u57	Thank you for your word. I welcome the intention of the proposer, who wants to reduce alcohol consumption by means of this law. In a law that I believe is rather restrictive, I see some kind of fundamental rules that should address this issue. I agree that such a law is more than necessary because in Slovenia harmful use of alcohol is a very big problem. However, with the principle of support, I cannot be entirely satisfied with certain parts of the law, because I do not believe that it offers one true alternative to the existing state and that the solutions are insufficiently concrete. I also fail to see one reliable guarantee that the new legislation in this area will produce the desired results. Restrictions without clear alternatives cannot bring any good. I believe that measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol use are adequately defined. I support the preparation of two-year alcohol-constraint programmes, but these programmes should not depend solely on the Ministry of Health and the experts involved so far. I am convinced that in designing these programmes we should involve more actively those NGOs and individuals who are already successfully engaged in preventive activities in this area and, irrespective of the bad situation, they are already achieving certain positive results. It is also essential that young people be involved in the planning of these programmes, which will also be targeted at most of these programmes, as it is easier to learn directly from them how they respond. Otherwise, I agree with the articles of the law that define measures and ways to limit the consumption of alcohol, but in my view, the prohibition on sales should apply for less than 16 years and not for less than 18 years. I am convinced that it would be far better for young people over 16 to offer a choice, because they could decide independently between alcoholic and non-alcoholic drinks, and with different programmes they should stimulate sobriety more than value, while at the same time promoting and spreading comprehensively as a positive alternative to having a good time without alcohol. This, according to the information I receive constantly, mainly directly from young people themselves, is very well done by the Foundation "With head to party" which, as one of the rare institutions in Slovenia, went in a very creative way. In my opinion, the unrestrictiveness of this project and such mentality in general, in the long run, is the key to positive movements among young people who, as a rule, reject everything that smells of prohibition in general. Finally, the huge resources that the country will inevitably use to exercise effective control over the implementation of this law would be much better spent on such preventive projects as this already mentioned "Head to Party". Speaking of surveillance, I don't think there's gonna be any particular problem in selling alcoholic beverages in different stores. But I can't imagine how lawmakers imagine control, especially on weekends, as a rule, these are the most beer days in popular inn restaurants or at a number of public events. Some of the venues are packed at that time, and a large number of different public events with thousands of participants are also among them, of course many minors, which cannot be recognized only from the point of view. Here, in my view, monitoring and proving the guilt of various lawbreakers will be virtually impossible. In this case it will only be possible to hunt witches, and in no case will it be effective control. In practice, these things are quite different from what I think the drafter of the law is very naive. That is why, in my view, it would be better to lower the age limit to 16 years. I am sure that in this case, many innkeepers, especially those who operate mostly as nightclubs and on weekends, would prefer not to allow younger than 16 years of age to enter such a place at all. This would also make it easier and more effective to control the sale of alcohol to minors, both for the guests themselves and for the inspectors and the police. The biggest problem that I think lies in this bill is the vague definition of Article 14, which in itself does not provide even about the necessary financial resources for the realization of the very well-defined objectives in Article 3. Much fairer to taxpayers would be to precisely determine the percentage of excise duties on alcohol and alcoholic beverages that will be directly intended for the activities laid down in Article 3 of the Law, rather than for all, regardless of the fine definition, we leave somehow in the mist. Given that, according to the data available to us, some 15 billion dollars will flow into the state budget next year, I propose that this percentage be around 10%. There is nothing to help us with the data that we will devote to these activities, I do not know how many times more resources than so far, but if so far virtually no money has been earmarked for these things. In order to move the current chaotic state, however, this money would require a great deal. This should be done in particular by supporting projects of primary prevention aimed mainly at young people and thereby financially encouraging different social actors to get more quality programmes for this area as well. I'll give you one piece of information. For example, the previously mentioned Foundation "With a Head to Fun", which is certainly one of the reference NGOs in this area, for such projects under the country's donation according to our information gets about 20% of the resources needed for its annual operation. Everything else must be provided by the economy on the basis of the market orientation of the projects. However, regardless of the fact that both the Ministry of Health and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth, as its largest co-funder among state institutions, recognises excellent work and likes to boast of their results, from year to year fighting for their survival. At the same time, there is no real opportunity for a decisive expansion of its activities, which, given its knowledge, organisation and human potential, could easily be achieved with sufficient budgetary resources. On the other hand, we have several alcoholic parties each day in popular venues, which directly encourage visitors to overconsumption of a wide variety of alcoholic beverages, including beer and wine, which will continue to be allowed, even under the new law. The means for direct increase in sales for this purpose by the alcoholic industry and, last but not least, the innkeepers themselves are completely incomparable to those foreseen by the State with its programmes in these same environments, either directly or through similar non-governmental organisations, as mentioned earlier "With head to party". In this situation, it is not possible to expect results, because if we are discovered, we know that, above all, those environments that are intended for young people's entertainment contribute more than decisively to the beginning of excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, especially among young people. Why else would it be weekends when young people openly admit that they regularly drink too much at different alcoholic parties and other parties in these environments? So once again, the first proposal would be to lower the age limit on the ban on sales to those under 16 years of age, thereby reducing the restrictiveness and confidence in young people, while at the same time saving a considerable amount of resources that the State will use to effectively control the implementation of the law. The second proposal would provide quality two-year alcohol-constraint programmes where the greatest emphasis should be on quality-prepared primary prevention programmes for young people. However, the third and most important proposal is to ensure long-term stable funding for the creation of new and the implementation of all existing quality prevention programmes, which could ensure that the proposed percentage of excise duty on alcoholic beverages, which would be allocated directly to the implementation of the two-year programmes provided for in Article 3 of the Act, or that such funds are determined by the Ministry by means of sub-legislative acts. Given that the law is already in third reading, I expect at least one of my proposals to be taken into account, at least the last two, as well as the proposal of the other Members of the Young Slovenia Party. In setting the age limit, however, I do not think that such restrictions will produce the desired results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem, she's not here. Mr. Branko Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! I didn't write down my speech, but I'm just gonna talk out of my head, 'cause I don't know. Look, I've already defined myself before, I think at first reading at a certain debate, or second reading, I don't know, to this law. That's when I said I wouldn't support him as such. Not because I do not believe that this law contains certain positive elements and an attempt by the Minister or by the LDS to show the Slovenian public, but perhaps even more so that in all areas it tries to provide for an advanced society that is able to respect certain social values through this restriction and high penalties, but it is my firm belief that this bill will not achieve this. This will, of course, be shown below. Although I wish you that it would be and that this is how your client, Mr Minister, would try to promote it, but I don't think you will succeed. In particular, I am in doubt because I do not believe that this law will be possible in practice. Very hard, really. How do you imagine that, I don't know. But I do know that even this could have negative consequences, and that's a terrible one. Now people are going to be, say, those who want to have a cup of coffee in the morning, perhaps a pint of such or other alcoholic beverages, even perhaps because they fertilize it in their stomachs or whatever, and some such alcoholic drink is also medicinal if you drink it at a certain point. She helped me, too, at least I tried to do it when they put me up to it or explained it to me, and it really helped me. Of course one sip of that drink. Not anymore. And I wasn't drunk about it. But it will happen that, according to my assessment, those who want to drink in the morning will buy this product at the store at seven o'clock and go to the buffet for a cup of coffee, but with more. And then, because they can't drink themselves, they'll offer to their colleagues. I fear that, in fact, because of this prohibition that you are trying to introduce here, they will spread in a different way and encourage alcohol consumption. That's what I'm afraid of. And I'm pretty sure that's what's gonna happen because it's already happened. Because we were already familiar with this in the past. And we know some of those things that we've tried to prevent, because we've been working in responsible jobs and we've been trying to stop alcohol from drinking for security reasons and all the other effects caused by alcohol, and we haven't succeeded. People just found other options. Secondly, I also do not support this law because of some new additional organisational systems that will cause costs to this country, because I think that these things could be implemented in some other way. My assessment is that the penalties prescribed are also meaningless at the level proposed. I can't imagine someone, an inspector like that or anyone else, charging someone with the highest penalty, a legal person, eight million dollars. The inspector won't even have the heart to settle this, like a fine or 500 grand, that's a big deal. Please! Please! And you know that's impossible. I think that the small penalties, the small penalties that an individual can pay, are significantly more educational than such high penalties, because everyone will try to avoid it in any way.In my opinion, they do not contribute, at least in this area, to improving these conditions. Or some individual entrepreneur who's gonna have to pay up to $5 million. A poor man with a buffet, perhaps even a hired man, should pay $5 million in case he finds out he broke that law. How'd he pay for it? From where? Where are you from, please? If he barely survives alone or so? The punishments are too high, and they're uneducated, according to my judgment. However, the measures for problems and reasons for drinking are certainly essential elsewhere. First of all, perhaps even in the very low education of our citizens. According to my assessment, highly educated people with some high level of employment, a large degree of commitment, and so on probably significantly less drink or are addicted to alcohol - I would say. Because in fact, it's different: drinking alcohol, being addicted to alcohol. That's an essential difference. So I think that people with lower education are more addictive, more often adopted, and the worst problem in all of this is, I think, the social fabrication of this society. Surely because I live in such an environment and know more people - say, in a rural town or in a small town, smaller places and so on - I have a much bigger review of what is going on in society than if you live in a big city where you don't actually know anyone and you don't know how many times it is, say, this day has had a glass or it isn't. In short, I firmly believe that the social problems of today's people are due to the social crisis, unemployment and all of these negative effects that we have been having for a period of time, especially during the period of independence or since 1990 - these differences are increasing. That's a fact. That's what we figured out. Those who are rich can drink a few small drinks in a rich way, a poor person who simply doesn't have a real job and doesn't have a job or has some low social assistance or not, with big problems - children at home, hungry and so on - drink from despair. Out of the blue! I firmly believe that in this area liberal democracy and the coalition should do much more. And you didn't. Now, instead of solving social problems in this country, people would become aware that they would be given some impulse to be model citizens and to have some interest in developing themselves, their family, their children and so on, to acquire some of the minimum material goods on which they could live culturally. No, you're doing the opposite. Just the opposite! On the one hand, much richer and on the other hand, much more poverty, which is growing. Poverty has never failed and never will, but, no matter what. Here are the essential differences, and here you have done nothing or a substantial lack. But it's also wrong, if I continue, to have a system of education. The education system is completely wrong, already in primary schools. You don't know, you don't know, I'm not guilty, I'm not responsible, or I can't have much impact on what the school system will be like, school programs and so on. All you do to children is write bad rights, what rights they have, what rights all children have in primary schools. They just see you, but they don't see you. How will they see them? I'm saying it's right that children have rights. They have to have rights, they have to be written down and respected, but in this sense, that a child in primary school can already fight with a teacher for whether he's earned 3, 4 or 5, and that he also fights with a professor and proves that he knows more than that, not that he's gonna tell me if you don't give me a two, but I'm gonna kill you. It's not educational. This is not a child's right. And that's what you tolerate and so on. In short, a system of education, where we would also try to raise the values of our children - you are not able to. You're not capable. On the other hand, I think the price of alcohol should be the one that would also discourage consumption. Price. Increase the price, I don't mind what you want, but I think I'm also sure there'll be less interference with alcohol. Why don't you, Mr. Minister, tackle the problem in the field of, say, social insurance and not make sure that those people who just want to drink or perhaps have a material opportunity to drink a little bit more or through normal, which is harmful to health do not require higher insurance to do so. Why don't you do it? The same is true of smoking. Give those people who are found to be more exposed to smoke - increase the level of insurance and treatment and so on. Don't do anything here. You're not capable of doing this. In short, I think you've got the problem at the wrong ends, although I'm not saying that there will be some minimal effect. I agree that, for example, to describe these things that you have given about advertising and these matters, I agree with that, but I am fully confident that this law will not achieve that effect because you have done it wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger is not here, that is the word Mr Sok. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, at the beginning of this speech, you have expressed your satisfaction here today that the vast majority agree with this law and that the rare debates of those who object have been referred to as anecdotic. So if I wanted to return this wit to you, I could tell you that even to simplify, your artificial fertilization law was passed by this Parliament and then rejected by the people as an anecdotic. So, if that's the way you want to discuss it. It's not appropriate. Maybe it's still the closest conclusion of a fellow Shirtz who said no one takes this marriage seriously enough. I think our Parliament - personally I am sure - is adopting laws too quickly. This is something that arises and then is quickly accepted without considering the possible consequences and that, I don’t know, the consequences of this law would be assessed. Not just this one, I'm talking about all the laws in general. As far as I know, parliaments in democratic countries in this way do not accept this speed, but allow the issue to be somewhat matured, so that civil society institutions can add theirs and tell theirs. Now, if the goal is to adopt only some law, and then this is done in such a way: let us give it quickly, let us accept that we can finally be commended in the report, Parliament has adopted so many and so many laws, the government has adopted so many laws, and the question is, of course, how these laws live in practice and how they are implemented. Well, I'm sure this marriage doesn't really solve anything. Or, for some individuals, what I know, merchants and innkeepers may at least be bankrupt at the start of the phase because the penalties are such that they can actually be destroyed through the penal system. In practice, however, what is intended to be achieved in order to reduce alcoholism is, of course, impossible to achieve by this law. What is alcoholism? We are probably looking at this phenomenon from two angles: whether it's a result or a cause. I'm among those who claim alcoholism is a consequence. Not only is it due to a big offer, it is a fact in Slovenia. In Slovenia, which is a wine-growing land, and also in this law, thank God, the wine-growing land will remain because it was built by our forerunners, not for a hundred years, but for a thousand years and more in this area. In fact, I find it difficult to imagine this region without vines and those who go to winemaking know how much effort and work it takes to invest in the production of good wine. And it is wrong that this law builds on an assumption of alcohol, but it does not cover, for example, the fact that wine is actually food and should be treated differently in the law. Clearly, then, this law will also contribute to the difficult conditions of this economic sector. And it would be better for us to follow similar solutions in this Slovenia, I do not know, in us comparable countries such as Italy, Austria, Spain, but not to follow Finland and other Scandinavian countries. It's simply uncomparable and I don't even know where this idea grew to be comparable to a Finnish model for us. Well, that's -- I don't know, most people like it and think it's true. It has been said before that alcoholism is a consequence. I know a lot of people who drink too much alcohol, but if I look at their stories a little bit in detail, then what has been said here at least twice or three times before me - a youth representative has also very well described this phenomenon of alcoholism, very well, I don't know how much we listened to it, but he was very good at his performance - wherever alcoholism occurs in older people, is the cause of some forms of social exclusion. It is true that those who are hard to earn, who work in jobs, who are physically very burdened and so forth, are more likely to reach after drinking than people who live more and more comfortably, who have more and more. And that's the problem with this country. As poverty increases, of course, alcoholism increases as well. So if we want to end this, we need to eliminate the causes, not by adopting such laws, but essentially elsewhere. And this is a criticism - not only of the government, but also of this Parliament, when it takes decisions and does not take that into account. However, another area concerned with alcohol abuse by an adult youth. But here is the crucial point in this education: education first, of course, in the family and then in the school. Unfortunately, however, it is not only in Slovenia, but I could say throughout Europe this liberal approach has been evaluated by the Institute of the Family. The family is no longer what it is - and instead of raising children in the family, they are actually raised on the street. And no marriage in such a form as it is written here can undo this. Whether you agree with me or not, this is where things need to be resolved in a completely different area. We have had, unfortunately, to mention this again, here is the occasion in this House that at least the merchants, young mothers and, of course, young fathers would be protected from what is happening today, and we did not want to do so. We told them to make their own decisions and stop it. This is a blinding before the facts, it is clear to all of us that they cannot do this on their own right now. And I wouldn't talk about it anymore because I'm getting away from this problem. But the problem is that our family is failing, that we are not building meaningfully, that we are not accelerating our family as a base cell. When, of course, this system is upgraded in a school that says that it is not responsible to raise, but to impart knowledge, then we get this complete circle, that young people experience those first experiences on the street. Is it possible with prohibitions to achieve the desired effect? I don't think so. I remembered once again the book of Orwell in 1984, where he described this aspect of the ban very well and in fact described alcoholism as an phenomenon, an even greater phenomenon in countries or in a country that had complete prohibition and also major penalties for alcoholics. Let me get this straight. Minister, however, the law will be passed, a large majority is for this. If it were to be decided by Slovenians who obviously make a different decision than this Parliament, you might get even more questions in this law. We'd like to tell you more dilemmas than we have in those individuals in our anecdotes. I will not personally vote for this law - not to support alcoholism. That's certainly not why! I don't think it can be implemented as such. It is a pity, however, that in this law you have not actually separated alcoholic beverages from protected or Slovenian high quality wines, wines of geographical origin. In this way, economic damage is actually done and the effect of the law will be very small or null. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u62	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 17.12.2002. Here we have an amendment, namely the amendment to Article 15. So I am putting to the debate Article 15 and the amendment of the government. Mr. Partich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u63	Is there any time left to discuss Liberal Democracy? I would like to report to the debate on the whole law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u64	As regards the debate between Members and Members, the matter is closed. You have not been reported as a debater and there is no way to talk about some of the times that remain at the end when we are discussing the amendment and so on, there is still some time left, then it is possible. We're at Article 15. I think that even since Article 15 is actually an essential part of this law - probably. [[...]] Please, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u65	I just wanted to say I'm sorry. I would like to say that I think that the law in no way harms: neither the wine-growing image of this country's happiness, nor the cultural drink, nor the protocol. On the contrary, I myself have had some experience with alcoholism and have not been drinking for 30 years. I'm glad you're drinking champagne here because I think it's one of the forms of drinking. But I am always unhappy because for all the years of cultural drinking, there has never been a glass of mineral water, so they can never toast those who do not drink. In fact, I'd say that. Secondly, I think it would be wrong to interpret the law in some way politically or by party. Because, unfortunately, our client once had a "story of success" password, it would be very difficult to tie these matters together -- everyone who was involved, you know, and the debaters mentioned them, highly interdisciplinary, different areas are here, even the social area is not as decisive as you claim, although there is no doubt that it is present. Although there's no doubt it's present. But many other reasons, not all of them, in my humble opinion, have been established and the social reason is only one of them. Even the market story doesn't seem so dangerous to me, because now that I'm leaving at 11:00 to buy a sandwich when I get home, there are people in front of all the stores who wire me for money and drink out of bottles. In short, I do not think it is a matter of promoting any political party to be really concerned about health, and I am sure that, during the implementation of the law, there will be more to these things that you have pointed out. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u66	Does anyone else wish to take the floor under Article 15 and the amendment to Article 15? [[Nobody.]] If there is no further debate, I conclude the debate. Today, we will vote on the amendment and the draft law in accordance with the timetable of the meeting after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item and the session. We continue at 13.25 a.m. with a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. I thank the Minister and the co-workers for their cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u67	Ladies and gentlemen! We're moving to 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - FIRST DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTING LAW ON ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF EDUCATION AND EDUCATION. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this law, there is a group of eleven Members with a first-signed magi. Andrej Visiak requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill for further explanation of the law [[That's five minutes.]] . Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. Good-bye to all of you! In June this year, on behalf of Members, I tabled in the legislative procedure a proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which is somewhat different in the field of the regression of school transport. The bill introduces a number of amendments: it changes the competence to determine the amount of school transport subsidies for students and students; so far, this has been determined by the government with a decision and the proposal foresees that this is regulated by law. Secondly, the amount of the subsidy from the previous 17 to 50% is changing; the existing amount of regression of transport was adopted on 30.12.1997 and according to the bill's proponents is no longer sufficient and does not allow an educated youth to receive education under the same conditions. Families with multiple children are especially burdened. Thirdly, the lower limit of distance from the educational centre is introduced - the proposal provides for 10 km. Fourthly, the proposal also entails additional obligations for the state budget, as an additional around 4.5 billion tolars will have to be provided. These amendments to the law are due to ineffective regional and family policies, as rural backwardness for urban centres is markedly increasing. In the countryside, jobs are disappearing, moving to larger centres, emerging trade zones along highways, and structural changes in agriculture are taking place too slowly and ineffectively. The standard of the rural population is lagging markedly behind and there are growing problems with much higher unemployment, greater economic and social problems and the emptiness of rural areas. At the same time, the family in rural areas must absorb some additional costs, including school transport costs for students and students. Despite their daily denial, many rural families are no longer able to pay for them. If they are yet to gather funds for the purchase of books, notebooks and other teaching aids, they have very serious difficulties in providing extremely high transport costs for their children to educational institutions. For rural families, this is an additional cost of education and is often the highest individual cost of education. In many cases, they account for even more than 50% of all education costs. They don't normally have these family costs in urban centres. School students and students from rural areas and their families are in a very unequal position, especially if there are more children in the rural family. The main objective of the law is therefore to halve additional costs, i.e. transport costs for students and students, and to mitigate the abnormally high costs of education between rural and urban children. The law does not fully eliminate differences, but I propose that you support it and contribute to the more even burdens of Slovenian families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u69	Well, Mr Tanko, I'm sorry that there are no government representatives, so I find that there are no government representatives, and because of the fact that the presentations of the parliamentary groups are immediately followed, it is the Social Democratic Party that comes first, I suggest that you continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u70	Thank you. The proposal for a law on the addition and organisation of education and education introduced in the legislative procedure by a group of members from six parliamentary groups complements the law in force in the part in which the field of school transport of young people in tertiary and secondary education is regulated. Transports to secondary schools and colleges are the largest annual cost of education for a large number of students and students. This cost weighs heavily on both the schooling youth and their families, who must provide funds for the education of their children. Knowledge is certainly one of the most valued social categories and all countries, all companies, all businesses and institutions of education and knowledge. Knowledge and education are key, decisive factors that define not only the role and importance of an individual in the group and society, but also determine the role and importance of companies and countries. It is these two categories that determine, to the greatest extent, performance and permeability, give a key competitive advantage, enhance quality of life, promote creativity and could also be listed. The fundamental objectives of Slovenian society in the field of education are set out in a number of documents and laws and are similar to those of developed environments. These are guidelines that are intended to enable the largest number and proportion of the population to obtain quality and environmental education. The country has developed a number of programmes enabling this education, offering many even more or even more opportunities, which is also very commendable. However, I am of the opinion that we have not done enough to ensure the conditions of regular secondary and higher education in particular to allow all those who are able to participate regularly in the educational process, equal opportunities and equal conditions for acquiring adequate knowledge and education. It is precisely because of the uneven conditions and high additional costs that some may not be able to engage in regular education at all and are forced to receive additional education in later years. More or less, however, they are unable to achieve university education and their chances of obtaining the best jobs are closed down. In the future, these effects will be even more obvious. Education institutions are located in the largest centres where the population and educational youth have the highest concentration. Many of them have schools at home, so they do not have transportation costs or have only minimal costs. At school centres, however, many people are educated who come to schools from faraway places every day. In particular, students and students from rural areas, from smaller, more remote areas, have significantly poorer conditions, as many to the nearest secondary school or colleges have 10, 20, 30 or even more kilometres and adequately high additional costs. The situation in families with several rural children in rural areas is particularly problematic. Costs come together, and a lot of families can't. Skilled children are forced to stay at home or have to join education for less demanding programmes closer to home. The network of educational institutions largely determines not only the content of vocational education, interests and trends in specific environments, but also very much determines the costs of education. It determines how much more an individual has to pay if he wants to be educated to get the desired education. Just for instance. The Diaic Card from Loško brook to Kočev is more than 25 thousand dollars a month, up to Ljubljana more than 36 thousand a month. Since rural families usually have at least two schooling children at the same time, this means that only for the transport costs of their children must each month devote at least one work salary; and for the entire duration of education, ranging from a minimum of two years to 8 years or even 9 years - if they are enrolled in college. Such a family is intended to pay transport costs for one child from a minimum of 500 000 tolls for a two-year programme in Kočev or even up to 3 and a half million tolars if it chooses the most demanding programmes and colleges in Ljubljana. It is quite clear that very few rural families can afford such a high cost. The rural situation is already critical, as all elements representing a standard or social level are at least 20 and, in most cases, more than in cities. The costs that rural people have to pay for their children’s education and training are about 50 percent higher than in cities. In fact, almost total costs, total higher costs, are exactly transport costs, thus further contributing to the disaggregation of the population and the strengthening of the prospects of life in the Slovenian countryside. I am convinced that we must take a more decisive step, relieve families and make it possible to integrate children from more remote areas into the education system and into our society more equally. Maybe someone will say that these differences cover scholarships, I don't think so. While scholarships compensate or mitigate differences between individual social groups, the fact remains that differences within the same social group are maintained in relation to residence or distance from school. Those who have this bad luck to bring to the world in the natural environment, in the countryside, must pay the tax and devote the scholarship to the payment of transport and the unfortunate citizen can use it for completely different purposes. In part, it will be possible to reduce this high burden on rural families by complementing the network of educational institutions, by establishing new educational secondary and higher education centres, and part of these urgent costs must be taken over by the State or the budget. It is essential that we take a more decisive step in ensuring more decent conditions for education also for children from remote and endangered environments. Since this country is capable of providing system resources in the form of eco-payments, for example, to maintain the production and processing of our rural area, I rightly expect a more decisive systemic approach and support in providing better opportunities for rural children to acquire vocational education. Children are not cows or potatoes. The adoption of this law would be one of the most direct and effective regional and family incentives that will certainly produce excellent results. If education conditions were to be more uniform, they would certainly also reduce migration pressure on larger centres, as they can also calculate in rural areas what they are being paid for. The situation in this segment of education costs is in fact similar to that in telecommunications, when the inhabitants of the poorest areas had to pay far the greatest contribution if they wanted to gain telephone connections and connect with Slovenia and the world. This contribution greatly enriched Telekom’s assets today, and they are struggling to obtain a disproportionately high stake. I hope that this overpaid part will also be reimbursed. It is also in the field of education that those living in the most difficult situations away from the centres and solid wages must contribute a much higher amount to the education of their children and take on a disproportionately higher financial burden than the citizens. They are trying to contribute to the enrichment of Slovenia through their hard-earned resources, so it is essential that they approach the direct unloading of families. The law proposes that 50% of the costs for the distance of 110 kilometres should be borne by the State, which, according to the applicant's assessment, represents an additional burden on the state budget of approximately 4.5 billion tolars. There is little if we want to meet the objectives of a number of documents if we really want to give conditions for coherent regional development, if we want to preserve rural areas if we want to, under similar conditions, no matter where we live, offer education to young people and if we really want to become a knowledge-based society. The parliamentary group will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mrs. Maria Ana Tisovic, Nova Slovenija. Then there are Mr Barovic, Slovenian National Party, Mr Podobnik, Slovenian People's Republic, Mr Levič SMS and Jože Kavtičnik, LDS. Following this order, you have been notified somehow to present the views of the groups of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u72	Thank you very much for saying so, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! The New Slovenia Group will support the proposal to supplement the law on the organisation and financing of education and education for further consideration. Finally, we must decide where and when we will support the learning society. We believe that it is necessary to build from the bottom up, to allow anyone who is capable of doing so to finish at least high school. We know that high school is some sort of pay-off board, because automated economy and computer-supported production no longer require physical labour. A successful secondary school is also a condition for the continuation of higher education and participation in development and research programmes for those who are more capable and more ambitious. If we don't start at the foundation, that's in the generation right after we're nine years old, we're going to be constantly at a slow pace with education. Thus, we will always put out problems with temporary measures. Indeed, many people find partial subsidisation of school transport to be a big financial contribution to the financial budget, but it is important to know that this money means investing in the knowledge of citizens, which will therefore be able to do more difficult work and thus contribute to the increase of gross social product. If we are to make progress and strive for a better future, we must also be prepared to sacrifice something for it. Or thinks the ruling coalition that parents themselves, instead of a country, are obliged to invest in this society, especially those who already live more at the edge in one way or another. We need to have students who drive to school every day and spend between 15 and 35,000 or even more a month on transportation. What does this mean for the family budget if one pays about 60,000 and this is only possible for temporary employment. And you have two or three drivers at the house. It happens that in such families children are divided into those who can go to school and those who are not allowed to do so because of a low family budget. Equality is no longer the case with the children of one family, but where are all the big words of the ruling coalition, which repeatedly repeats that equal opportunities must be offered for all citizens, and which constantly calls for anti-discrimination. Ladies and gentlemen, this is discrimination against citizens if students living in or near larger centres have real opportunities for education, while others do not have such opportunities from faraway places. The latter are highly discriminated against. If all children who are capable of education are not afforded equal opportunities by society, they will knowingly give up certain intellectual potential. And that's exactly what our society needs. Our New Slovenia Group will support the proposal for the novel under consideration, because we are aware that there is an urgent need for a concrete start if we are to have an educated workforce and a people at the same time. Let us start to say that we are against discrimination and for equal opportunities for all citizens, because only such behaviour will lead us to realize the true story of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Barovic is not here, nor is anyone else from the Slovenian National Party. Thus, Mr Janez is the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Coalition Treaty on Education and Science states that the parties will be committed to providing opportunities for all young people who are ready and able to achieve at least four-year secondary education, and that one of the objectives of public enrolment policy at secondary education level in the following years: for the first time, that the proportion of young people attending high school programmes in the coming years is gradually reaching 40 per cent. Secondly, in addition to four-year programmes and vocational education programmes, the proportion of young people who continue their education in four-year secondary schools after primary school will exceed 70 per cent of the next decade. These are the reasons why the Slovenian People's Party Group cannot oppose the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. In our view, this is a law that puts the National Assembly in a position to reconsider its attitude towards education. Slovenian families are in crisis during the transition period. More and more young people do not choose to make families, and more and more laws fail. Let's help them where we can help. Especially vulnerable families living on the outskirts of urban centres affected by unemployment. The neoliberal values of the 1990s have defined people as costs. Funds for education are also costs. Let us enable every young person in Slovenia to be educated. Over the past ten years, the number of recipients of food aid in primary and secondary schools has increased by more than 100 percent. Now more than a fifth of our children have received it. In the last five years, the number of admissions to high school has dropped. In Slovenian high schools, children who come from families whose parents have not graduated from high school are finding it increasingly difficult. The proposed amendment to the law of the fellow Members of Parliament, which, in turn, brings new financial obligations to the state budget, is not attractive to state finances. It is certainly supported by thousands of parents of children who are increasingly able to bear the costs of schooling children on their own, even if, some month later, some kind of highway connection between Barcelona and Kiev will be built, or some new Schengen border crossing will be delayed. The assistance provided by the proposed amendment of the law is one of investments in human capital, which, according to a number of studies, are very effective, especially in education after completion of compulsory education. Investments in human capital improve the ability of individuals in the labour market to find jobs and to employ better-paid jobs. Investments in human capital are a very important factor in economic growth and also bring some non-economic benefits, such as better health conditions, and benefits of greater competitiveness in workplace application on the basis of better knowledge. Research shows that it is very important for the State to allow equal access to education for young people even after completion of compulsory education, including various financial incentives, such as compensation for transport costs to school. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Group proposes that the National Assembly support the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levič, Young People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we welcome the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, with which the applicants want to address the issue that we have already given a lot of attention to in the Youth Slovenia Party in the past - this is the subsidisation of the transport of students and students who are educated outside the place of residence. In the budgets of the past years, we wanted to provide more equal access to education to students and students who do not have educational facilities by means of amendments to increase these funds. Unfortunately, our amendments in the past have not received sufficient support, despite the fact that government priorities are always at the forefront of decentralisation and equal access to education. The key to deciding on the support for the proposed amendments to the law, according to the Party of Young Slovenia, is whether the country is willing to listen to the pressures of students and students, and especially their parents, who simply cannot afford to pay the costs of transport to school. As we know, this is far from all the costs that parents have for their children, but they are the only ones who are conditioned by where children live. It is precisely because of this fact in the Party of Young Slovenia that we believe that the country is the one that has to eliminate this inequality. So far, 17% of subsidisation is absolutely too low, as a large majority of transport costs are paid by parents themselves. If the state actually provided equal opportunities for access to education for all citizens, it would theoretically have to pay the cost of transport in full. In particular, this is why we consider the proposed 50% subsidy as a good and acceptable proposal, which will at least ease the difficulties of a large number of young people in education, whose only disaster is that they do not live in cities with appropriate educational institutions. We will support the bill in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The word is given by Joseph Kavticnik, Liberal Democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The current law also states that the State co-finances transport and nutrition costs. On 30 December 1997, the Government adopted a decision setting the amount of the monthly ticket subsidy for the transport of pupils and students who are studying outside the place of residence. The amount, of course, is determined by the government on the basis of the budget. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia is that the aim is to complement the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, so that the country increases the proportion of co-financing of the transport of pupils, apprentices, students and students who travel to school more than 10 km from the place of residence, good and this purpose in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia are not opposed. However, it is the view of the LDS Club that, by means of complementary legislation, the applicants have not proposed the right solution. So the solution is a problem. The proposal to extend the subsidy to all, without clear criteria and regardless of social status, is not sustainable. On this account, the budget of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport should be increased by around 4.5 billion tolars, and additional funding should be given to those who do not need it. Our proposal is to invite the proposer and the government to prepare a supplement to the law and a new decision to determine the amount of monthly ticket subsidies for the transport of students and students who are studying outside the place of residence, which now amounts to 17% of the full price of the monthly ticket, but in order to increase the subsidy from 17% to 50%, we should define more clearly the criteria in which someone can obtain more than 17% of the subsidy. The subsidy is a social mechanism, but it must be based on the principle of social justice. Members of the LDS Club, as I have already said, support the purpose, not the solution, which is enshrined in the law. We will therefore support this proposal, but with the assumption that the investor and the government will prepare changes to the law until the second reading and amend the decision where they define how to resolve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations on the positions of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. According to the reports I have here, the order is as follows: Jerovšek, Tisovic, Pukšič, Drobnic, Sušnik, Bajuk. Mr. Jerovšek, he's not here. Mrs. Tisovic, not at all. Mr. Pukšič - not at all. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u80	Thank you so much for saying that. Just an extra thought about this law. See, modern societies of righteousness, developed societies, are based on equal opportunities. However, equality of opportunity is ensured primarily through equality of opportunity for education. We should be aware of that. In the world, they deviate from thinking about justice, depending on what wages we may have or whether we have in society, but to ensure the same opportunity to any city in the country, either on the market or in public services. That is why I support this bill in order to allow for more extensive co-financing for those students who are far away. Of course, they're in a handicapped position. Slovenia and Slovenians or Slovenian citizens cannot afford to have poor parents' children stay at home, although they are talented, because talent and also will and effort are not distributed according to how rich parents are. Lucky for you, it is. That is why we are obliged to make this possible to a far more efficient extent, not only by word but also by action. And this proposal for the law of the fellow Member Tank is the first step, the first step towards achieving this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat what Mr Tanko has already said on behalf of the Group of Members in the presentation. I just want to add something. Poverty among young people in Slovenia is obviously a very serious problem. Finally, this was demonstrated by the analysis carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Youth. They should be very concerned about the data and the conclusions of this analysis. This analysis shows that only 5 percent of young high school students can apply their personality to their hobbies. Everyone else lives from hand to mouth. I also reject the explanation I have heard in the position of the Liberal Democracy Group that this subsidy should be linked to the social situation. Analysis shows that mostly our schooling generation does not have the means to express its personality in order to develop into a whole human being. Another frightening information is that the health situation of secondary and primary school students has deteriorated dramatically in recent years due to poor eating habits. 12 to 14.6%. 12 to 14.6 percent! Listen, these are the data that I'm just summarizing and that the state institutions that we're funding have produced - if that's what you're going to call it. On the other hand, I would like to draw attention to another aspect. In Slovenia, we are facing a complete mess or complete absence of public transport policy, which is powered exclusively by school transport. Here they take over the main burden of municipalities in sparsely populated areas, whose burden on co-financing of school transport is exceptional and is in no way in line with our aspirations for coherent regional development, and students driving these school transports to schools. The prices are abnormal. Listen, the prices are abnormal, but they're abnormal because all the profitability has monopolies who don't let anyone down on those tracks. We are all aware that there is no competition in the field of school transport, that we have essentially rejected this competition by means of a passenger transport law. All this burden of public transport financing has been passed on to students, to school transport users. At the moment when there is no school, practically whole areas in Slovenia are cut off from the world because none of the carriers pays to organize transport on these lines anymore. That's clear evidence. Look, 15% of Slovenian families are poor. According to some data that I could read in Dnevnik two days ago, 80% of Slovenian families are not credit-worthy. I would like to hear the opinion of the newly proposed candidate for the Minister for Regional Development, as she views this bill. If this is not a direct contribution to coherent regional development, I do not know. I think that today, on the test, our serious purpose will be whether we are ready to do something for coherent regional development, for rural development or not. Any turn in the cellophane and, I will say, moving this problem to a later, more appropriate and more imaginative solution, as we have heard today, is just a delay in this problem, which certainly is not good. Floscules, or even what we hear about being a learning society, will be totally denied by our attitude toward this law. I think this is an opportunity to move from words to actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u83	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Dr. Andrey Bajuk, who is not. He wants to speak to the billmaker? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u84	Well, I think this proposed law actually won its essence. It has hit an area to which we have all identified that it is problematic, that we do not have the right solution and that we all agree that something needs to be moved in this area to make a good move. Perhaps that is all I would have mentioned is that so far the resolution of this part of school transport has not been linked to social status. The regression of school transport, which was introduced by the 1997 government decision at the end of 1997, was generally established, irrespective of social status. Now, I think that the initiative that has been given to show that we can think about it is appropriate and that, if the proposal is supported, it would also suggest that we think about it. However, the fact is that even if these mechanisms are put in place, part of this decomposition will remain, as there will be a difference between social groups, between those social groups in rural areas and urban centres. I don't think that's right. Then there will be a difference even within the same area, even in the same area we have poor and rich families and we will solve these things in a different way. And another problem is: even some kind of dispersion within the family appears. For the family can still raise funds for, say, the first child, for the third child, they often have problems. If we somehow turn this into more tangible things, this means that, for example, one poor family in the Los Stream, where the standard is certainly 40% lower than in the first major urban center, this is in the Ribnica, this family must gather for its child transport costs, if the child is educated, for one average car. If he has two kids in education - for two cars. These people have virtually no place to earn or have nothing to sell or sell to. And in fact, we should approach these differences more and more on this positive side. With regard to resources, the issue of resources often arises. I think that by some more sophisticated law, to avoid a referendum that really does not need a referendum, we would save 500 million or 1 billion tolars, which can then easily be translated into an educational system. I think that there will also have to be some reflection on the unseemly high prizes for electoral committees and other matters. As a proposaler myself, I am prepared to incorporate these comments from this general debate, to consider them and to try them together with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to process them and also this article of the law to model them accordingly. For this reason, I also expect that the parliamentary groups will also give their support to this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u85	Thank you very much. There are no government representatives here, so he can't react to this proposal right now. There's still some time left before this point ends. Who else wants a word? I will now go in line: Mr Sponik, then Mr Sok, Mr Pohorec. Anyone else please? Mrs. Purgatory. We have four speakers right now, and then we'd go. Please don't have every 10 minutes, but after five minutes, we'll do one round, and then we'll see what it looks like if you're up to it. [[...]] Thank you. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u86	Thank you, Dr. Brace. Vice President, it won't take five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u87	Approximately.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u88	This is a law that goes beyond, in principle, the content of a coalition treaty and does not conflict with it. I speak as a coalition member. The problem is topical, it's here and now. Generations of schooling children in a deprived state are here. It's important every year. I believe that, even on the basis of the last act of the first one, there is a proper business path to support the law, to continue the procedure and then, in both articles, there are only two articles, to record some additional necessary improvements, and to see the light in the early spring. And this will make a concrete contribution to the implementation of the coalition treaty, which is here unequivocal. For if we went into the depths of this problem, we could find out that it gave the deprived position of children in education a violation of human rights. And if they do, I can't have any argument that I wouldn't believe some of the arguments that have just been said here. And if that's true, then the National Assembly is obliged to react to such a situation. But the budget will handle it, you know, it will. He has endured many other things, and he would also have transferred some more money for these purposes. However, we may be able to make a decision this afternoon and we will support this law and then the proposaler, together with the government, will bring solutions to the second hearing, so that the law will be adopted as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I didn't mean to argue, but since this opportunity has been offered, I would like to draw attention to another matter. I listened very carefully to the performance by the Prime Minister of Mags. Robbery. I must say, in not one word, as Prime Minister, has he mentioned a problem that seems to me very much in our society, which is the problem of falling birthrates. So, Slovenian society, the Slovenian nation through, that more people die and that fewer children are born, that in the last few years births have decreased dramatically and are still declining - all the systems operating in this country are actually threatened through this. And we can start with education, health care, pensions and so on. Get it straight, if we don't all do something together in this direction to increase fertility, then, of course, as a nation, we are writing in the near and distant future very, very badly. And this is one of the moments, it's said, the cost of a child as a whole: from the time he's born, and later when his parents have to take him through school to get a proper education. Because all of this, of course, represents a cost and if the state does not take sides in all of this and in some way help, then families will also decide for fewer and fewer children in the future. I haven't seen any studies where this can stop, but actually this problem is very burning. And in the countryside it is all the more exposed, because in addition to falling fertility, many people are also moving into cities, because it is easier and cheaper to live there and it is, of course, with such laws as this, in one part, of course, possible to change. It would therefore be appropriate to adopt this law. And no matter what the coalition contract says, we approach this problem as soon as possible. However, I am very sorry that in the coalition contract, or perhaps you still have time, last night I heard the Prime Minister preparing an annex to the coalition contract, that you still include this problem of birth problems in Slovenia in this contract and as ruling parties find out what is possible in Slovenia. But we need to do so immediately, for the problem is now present, and if we do not begin to solve it immediately, it will eventually be much bigger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. If I remember correctly, because it has been a while now, I am even a cosigner of this bill and I will support it. Because I know the problem, because I live in this area, too, about 30 kilometers from where our youth goes to school. And I live in an environment where it's not littered with flowers, where people live on some poverty line, I'd say, or many in poverty. And that transport to school is one of the problems of these parents, as well as of these children. These take a lot more time, including being in school, compared to others who are, what I know, a mile away or even closer to school. They have to get up first, they have to get on the bus first, they have to have an extra meal. These are people who are young who are growing up, who also need more food after all, come home later, have less time to learn and for everything else. They're already shorthanded. And I think it would be a real challenge to listen to this problem. I am sorry, and I am surprised that no one from the government is here to monitor this debate and to take stock of what is really going on. I will support this proposal of the law myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Purgatory.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I notified myself to the debate after the proposaler's express assurance that he is also willing to think about the things that have now been said in the general debate as suggestions. It is not possible to oppose the intention of the proposed law to respond to the social situation and to the costs incurred by parents through school transport. Nor is it possible to overlook the fact that such reimbursements must be made but also the appropriate criteria. And I advocate that these criteria exist, that the criteria be built in, given that some other benefits that can be applied from student, student or student status are also linked to the social situation of the family. I am talking about both the scholarship and something else - so it is also possible to think about this in transport. I agree with all those debaters who believe that the social picture of Slovenia is linked to education such that we have to worry. If we come from the findings of research on social justice in education, which speaks of having a better education, and thus a better life in the future, significantly more opportunities for those children who come from families of educated parents, then the goal we set ourselves in this country - namely, to raise the educational level and bring everyone to the profession - is such a goal for which we need to think carefully about all those steps that could lead to a successful realization. Therefore, I think it would be wise to consider supplementing this bill to the extent that then this amendment of the law on the organisation and financing of education and education has also been implemented and that this supplement would not have happened as far as possible with any adopted law, when, for example, we have adopted some provisions on how subsidised transport in those areas that are threatened by brown bears - let us say just for example, and then we know how this is being done in practice. I am therefore in favour of that, although even a somewhat rigorous or tempted version, but such a version that would have some effect, particularly for those who need this effect most. I have experience of my own, of course, such and different, because I have 30 years of work in education for myself and it is necessary to take into account those students who drive cars to college and are seen by individuals, and those who do not have the money to live in their homes or regularly attend lectures and their academic performance is also linked to how many times they will attend lectures because it is related to transportation costs. Not to mention or broadly not to justify the problem of exceptional students, the type of exceptional students we find as a percentage of the proportion of extraordinary students in an ever-increasing proportion, namely those who, due to their success at the graduation, cannot be enrolled in the desired, chosen course of study, and parents have to pay high school fees anyway, and then all other benefits concern them. I mean, the problem is very wide, it needs to be seen in all the writings, and I have come to say again, so that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Science and Sport, the proposal can be made so far as it is acceptable and feasible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The second round of panellists, Mr Petan, Mr Jerovšek, well, Mr Petan, please. The frame is five minutes we said, approximately.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u96	No problem. Thank you for your word. So at first I didn't sign up for this debate, not just because there was time left, but in the debate I heard a lot of interesting things and I think I should draw attention to some things. It is in this area of education and education that many words are fully justified, we speak very much and we strive for the walls. That's right, too. I'm also one of those who stands for a wall. However, I believe that the walls are just one pillar of this area, education and education, and that another pillar is also important, of course I think there is a third pillar, but I would like to say a little more about the other, and these are the students who are in this system. This is a schooling youth. Without this pillar there is probably no other pillar, neither walls nor professional staff working in this area. It probably can't be; the basic pillar is definitely students. And I will say that the foundations of democracy, the rule of law, are the same opportunities for all or at least the same opportunities - probably the exact same possibilities, ideal things we cannot expect and cannot paint. However, "very similar options" is one of those demands of the rule of law and democracy. True, some things cannot be the same because nature is such. There are, however, some who can or can be made very similar. It is true that the financial situation in families cannot be the same everywhere. That's completely understandable. And the one who would expect it is an illusionist. And here's the task of entering the country. And that's, I think, our mission. We all say that the youth world is saying that these are the foundations of our future development. But the fact is that the knowledge or potential that this youth, who wants to be educated, may not be able to be educated, is what every smart country needs to take advantage of. And in the world, smart countries try to make the most of the potential of the young generation, of course, even older ones, so that there will be no mistake. But in youth, there is the greatest potential that can be used in the shortest possible time. And that's what's true of the nation's wealth. The fact is that the greatest outflow of knowledge and personnel is in countries where conditions are not normally regulated where something is not "stress" where crisis situations are and so on. And successful countries, this frame, are trying to accept this potential. In a successful country, the most popular are the students, an educated cadre, who already has knowledge. It is said that they well know what is good for the non-state, what is good for the national economy. This marriage, which is ahead of us, is one small segment. With this, we will probably not save our education, we will not completely save the country, but we will put a small stone in this building, which will help to create a healthier foundation in a country that will help a country to develop better. For after all, knowledge is the only thing that can save a country, or vice versa, if it does not. I'd say I'm glad that most of my colleagues have detected this problem. And that's good. So, the proposer hit. However, I do not agree that this identification of this problem is what is sufficient. It is not enough that we agree to verify the problem, that we have it somewhere in our minds, and that is all we do. Then we say yes, but for such or other reasons this matter is not acceptable. I think we need to deal with this area a little bit more with listening, a little bit more tenderly, because this is about young people who, with some help or a little help, we can also shape fate in older, more mature years, so we need to do something a little more with listening. I would say that, given that the applicant has also accepted certain comments that have been and that he would be willing to amend this law in the second reading, I think it is somehow enough to support this programme and to try to correct it with the comments that have been made in the second reading. I'll support this marriage myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Just an explanation because several debaters were talking about "the proposaler will correct the law". You know what the procedure is, I'm sorry to say this right now: the committee, five days before the amendment session and then the procedure forward. So now it is no longer his law if he goes through, of course, a normal marriage procedure. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In fact, I am very surprised that in the law that we send extremely symbolic messages to a young generation living in an environment where access to education, knowledge is more difficult to reach in such a law and the treatment of such a law, there are no government representatives, not even our colleague, the future school minister, which surprises me very much. And, of course, the message we send from this hall in this way, sent by authority, does not encourage these young people. However, because of these messages, the authorities say that in some way they want to give up the potentials of this important part of the young generation and their potential contribution to the national corps. There is probably no need to talk about the possibility that education is uneven or that access to school is uneven. The fact is, whoever's closer has better baseline options. The role of the country, the social state, as Slovenia should be, is primarily to try to equalise opportunities, the initial prospects of all, especially the young generation. Because I firmly believe that in this environment, it is said in solid rural working and farming families that many of these young people, who can make a tremendous contribution to the development of Slovenia, to the development of new products, that it is possible for these people to grow up, as in our history, important pillars of the Slovenian people, if we do not try to disable them in this way. For history is from such backgrounds, from children who have already experienced life in childhood - I must say that today's young generation in the countryside must have a firm experience of life in the early years of youth, childhood - that they have grown to be the most famous Slovenians. For, Simon Gregorčič in the song The farmer's house says 'from there [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] You're from there." [[...]] I am sure that there will be many of them in the future, but that is why I think this should be supported. It seems, however, that our government does not want competition in the field, it is said among young people that competition through education systems will be the best to achieve a privileged position for some. Otherwise, this money would surely have been dug up, government representatives here would have shown a living interest, that young people, young people whose numbers have been decreasing in recent years, would have tried to get the best out of it. This interest is clearly not of this interest to the current government, to the government, even to the future government. We must, with the help of the public, force the authorities to act in the field of education as any enlightened authority should. I'm afraid that's not the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the debate on this point. I also conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will today, in accordance with the meeting's timetable, vote after the conclusion of the 14th item of the agenda. I hereby terminate this agenda item and also the meeting. We'll continue at 2.55 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u100	Colleagues and fellow Members, representatives of the government! We're moving on to 12. Agenda item - Second stage of defence of the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the spatial composition of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. At its 20th meeting, the Assembly held the first stage of its consideration of the draft decree submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration. I give the floor to a representative of the government, to a retired minister and to a candidate for Minister [[is the current status]] Oh, my God. Janez Kopač, for further explanation of the motion for a decree. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, such an unusual title. This is a document that has already been created in 1986 and has changed several times so far, this time the last amendment is before you, because just recently a law on the regulation of space was passed, which was accidentally published today in the Official Journal and enters into force on 1 January, and this provides for a different document, a different spatial act, a state act that you will adopt, and is called the spatial development strategy, and I hope that you will have it on the parliamentary benches in the spring of next year. This is, therefore, the last amendment to the old 1986 spatial act, which we have nevertheless embarked on in accordance with the procedures so far because we simply couldn't wait for the new acts because of three things. There are therefore three elements that are proposed here. One is the pumping hydroelectric power plant of Avče in the municipality of Kanal ob Soča, which has also expressed its consent to this intervention to the premises and because there are no other reservations, no natural protection or any other. The second such intervention, which is envisaged here at the criteria level, not at the precise point, is a set of criteria for placing antenna towers for mobile telephony in the space. Well, a third set of changes is the possibility of placing wind power plants in space. The government originally suggested that it should be a place where this could be placed - formally called a place where it is possible to study and later install these objects - to make it only Primorska, and also with certain exceptions. However, in its debate, a number of Members stressed the need for this possibility of at least opening up for the entire territory of Slovenia and also for those areas within Primorska, which have been exempted by the government proposal for an act. Well, the amendments have been tabled by the Parliament, which the Committee on Infrastructure has legally and technically adopted and formed as its own, and the Government also supports in its opinion. Therefore, it does not support those amendments that the Committee's amendments, of course, summarize. I would also like to say that this time you meet exceptionally or meet with the old Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, because this is an act whose adoption is specifically defined within a few days of the applicable Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions to the premises and in the Law on the regulation of the premises, even a few more days in force. It provides, however, that this is accepted in a two-phase procedure and that the basic text, as proposed by the Government, is now before you, with all the amendments tabled by the Committee and the individual Members. There is no integral text, so in some ways I apologize that a number of votes will have to be put through. However, I think that we have reached a high level of consensus on the Committee, both with the members of the Committee and with all the Members who participated in the discussion, whether they come from the opposition or from the coalition, and I therefore hope that there will be no difficulty in accepting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u102	Thank you for this supplementary explanation. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, as the working body of the mother, considered the proposal for a decree. I ask the chairman of the committee, Mr. Janz, to submit a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. At its 36th meeting, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment held a second reading of the proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under Article 2 of the Law on Planning and Regulation of Space during the transitional period. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held a general discussion on the proposed decree at its 20th regular meeting and adopted the conclusion that it was appropriate for further consideration. A written opinion was given to the proposed decision by the Commission for Local Self-Government and Regional Development in the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia. In its written opinion, the Legislative Legal Service of the National Assembly concluded that the provision of the first paragraph of Article 2 of the Law on Planning and Spatial Planning during the transitional period should also be taken into account when preparing changes and supplementing the long-term and medium-term social plan and that the proposal for decisions from a nominal technical point of view is not adequately prepared and will need to be supplemented in this respect. The amendments to the proposed law were tabled by Mr Davorin Terčon, the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. In the debate on Article 2 of the draft decree and the amendments tabled, the members of the Committee considered that the area for the study and exploitation of wind potential for energy use should be extended to the entire territory of Slovenia, as well as a great deal of attention to areas where the construction of energy facilities and appliances for the use of wind energy should be possible only under specific conditions The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment supports the amendments of the SDS Group to Article 2 of Article 1 and Article 3 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members to Article 3. By adopting the amendments of the Committee to Article 2, the amendments of Mr Davorin Terčona and the group of Members with the first signed Davorin Terčon and the SDS Group of Members under number 2 have become irrelevant. The Infrastructure Committee has adopted its amendments to Articles 1 and 2, to the title of the Act and to the cartographic work and proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a decree amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, together with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u104	Thank you for the report of your mother's working body. We are moving on to the debate, first of all the views of the groups of Members. Three parliamentary groups have applied and I give the floor first to the Socialist Group of Members. Franz Sušnik, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u105	Thank you very much. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we will support the amendments on the proposal for a decree on amendments to and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, namely those amendments which the Committee has adopted and which, in our opinion, regulate or follow what we have said in the proper consideration of this decision. In this way we are essentially applying the declared priority use of renewable energy sources, in particular with a focus on wind energy, throughout Slovenia, as well as regulating and defining the use of wind energy in protected areas. We are pleased that this harmonisation amendment has also taken place to change the cartographic work, and we will support that amendment, as I have already said, which defines the use of wind energy in protected areas and also in areas where it is possible to use this wind energy by installing devices up to one megawatt. As far as the installation of the Avče power plant is concerned, it also receives our support. In putting mobile telephony sites into space, I believe and particularly welcome this provision that these devices are placed in locations that represent and ensure the least possible impact on human health, the least possible impact on nature and the least possible impact on the environment and cultural heritage, so that things like that happen to us, even in the future. In doing so, we welcome and underline the need to maintain mobile telephony devices on existing devices and existing corridors. We will also support the amendment that defines how and how it is possible and urgently necessary to install mobile telephone devices in protected areas or in areas governed by a special regime, I am also referring in particular to Triglav National Park. Basically, all the amendments we agreed on on the Infrastructure Committee and we will support the decree ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr Ivan Mamić will present the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. I welcome all present. The Decision on the modification of the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of Nova Slovenija in principle supports. Why, in principle, because the material itself does not show what we want, it is a programme that should contain a little more detail, and because it is just the points listed, it does not tell us much. We hope that this will soon improve, so that we can talk about it more easily and make decisions. In fact, it is not enough to say that Slovenia will take priority in the energy use of renewable energy sources and so on, because we need to ask ourselves whether this means that Slovenia has not so far advocated the use of energy resources that are acceptable in an ecological, economic and perhaps other, social sense. I guess not, but we hope we're already awake. In the New Slovenia Group, we are convinced that by smart approach we can make very good use of natural gifts, at least like Western countries, from which we can learn a lot more, because we have the same sun as them, our own storm, our own water, as well as our own fertile surfaces, from which we obtain the so-called biomass. Perhaps it would be right to start this programme at biomass, because at the same time we would reduce the problem of unemployment and have an impact on imports, of course in a positive sense, of expensive oil derivatives, and our forests would be cleaner and more friendly. A month ago, we had an affair in Nova Gorica, Iverka, which polluted the environment with its fuel. And the locals complained and there was a big problem. If natural materials were to be used, this problem would not have occurred, and technology would probably be cheaper and it would have been easier to manage all the lines and so on. In this development I also see a great contribution to the development of the Slovenian countryside, because we know what state it is in. We expect the new government, with a new minister covering this area, to take this issue seriously. We need to be aware that there is a lot of confusion in this area, but that there is much to be done. And if we do that, it will also make it easier for us to come to a Europe in which we are already invited. And we must take advantage of our natural lives, as I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u108	Thank you. And Ivan Bozič, the position of SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, welcome on behalf of our Group of Members. The Group will support the decree on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. Indeed, Mr Minister said before that this decree has a beard, it is 16 years old, but today we are just supplementing it. We believe that our faith is in a good direction because we are building it up in the use of natural renewable energy sources, which we do not use very much in Slovenia. Sun, water, geothermal energy, wind and biomass are things that we should think more about, more do, because energy is expensive. In yesterday's presentation, the Minister himself said how we lack or need to import electricity. On the other hand, we have a renewable source of wind that has been blowing for thousands of years across our landscapes, against the sea, and we are not really using it to this day. Maybe you went to Corsica for a long time, and see how Corsica, not Corsica, on Crete, has been using the wind to pump water. And Crete has enough water thanks to the wind. Windmills pumping water out of the ground. And we don't know how to use windmills or we don't want to use them. We're making it all up, just so we don't put them up to produce electricity with them. And we think it's right that this decision has created a demand for wind energy. We also strongly support the idea of building a hydroelectric power plant on the Soča River in the Avča region. The water is enough, the peak is leaking, we have energy, and then we can use it to drain water on the hill, and when we need energy, we're going to put water on the turbines. Many in Slovenia could probably have already done so. Even to our northern neighbors, the Austrians, if we go to look, Malta, you will see how big lakes are made there for this very purpose. And none of the environmentalists sigh excessively because of the flooding of these valleys; these mountain valleys that we should probably never water. We are also pleased that the committee has received the support of our amendment that it is in the area of protected areas, such as the very protected area of the Triglav National Park, that we need to ensure that we have a mobile phone call there. It can't be that in our mountains it's impossible to use handheld phones, any kind of manufacture. I was alone at the top of Krna last year, but I didn't get a connection with the locals, with a house that I could see with a free eye. So, unfortunately, it's covered with cell phone signals from my country, and that's not good. However, since this law only thinks and wants this to be settled, we will also support this law, as the Minister has said, this decree is the last decree and we will have to consider the law on space management in addition, and then we will have to take it even more seriously, because Slovenia has sufficient renewable energy sources and does not benefit from them. Often, though, it is not because people do not see the forest or the whole nature because of one tree or one worm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u110	Thank you. We have thus exhausted the debate on behalf of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First, I give the floor to Dr. Michael Brajc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u111	Thank you. I think that the law that we are dealing with today with the amendments that have been tabled is probably the right way to take advantage of natural property in Slovenia as well. Of course, I am well aware that the construction, for example, of windmills that produce so much and so many kilowatts, of megawatts of electricity, may be disputed for naturekeepers, that this may be controversial for landscapers, for example, and perhaps for others. On the other hand, it is not possible to overlook the fact that they often lack electricity on these planets, where the wind is at home. This is, for example, the nanoplanet, where people live without electricity and find it difficult to understand that this issue cannot be settled in the third millennium. I myself have tried to understand this matter as far as possible and to learn about these things. I also looked at these projects that the Slovenian side has prepared together with its colleagues from Spain. I don't know. These projects convinced me. In addition, I myself have seen what it looks like in neighbouring countries, where far away, for example, they do not have as much wind as they have, for example, in the Vipavska Valley, in Gorički and elsewhere. Thus, the only obstacle I see here is actually hindering all those who say that animals could die out, certain species of animals or organisms would be affected by the disability in order to visually corrupt the natural landscape and so on. All these arguments must be accepted. But on the other hand, I would have been able to tell these people some kind of ambiguity. I am not saying that there is one - I forgive myself because I do not know exactly the name of this animal - centipede, for example, some small animal is very important because there is only one such thing in Europe. Similarly, we heard about mosquitoes in the Vipavska Valley, where the highway goes. I understand that this is a very important question from the point of view of a particular profession, but I also understand people who live without electricity. And now we have to ask ourselves when we have, how can I say, two proposals or two reasoned rejections of one proposal, what we are going to do. I'll make my own decision for the people. I think we need to provide people with the most equivalent living conditions, otherwise those who persist will be displaced and will not be displaced in many areas in Slovenia. Elektro Primorska was very active in the search for solutions when it comes to this energy gained by the wind, and they themselves invested a lot in finding a solution. So where's the brake? Who's obstructing these processes? Clearly, this is a state bureaucracy that does not understand how many problems can be solved in this way. With this law and with the understanding of the Ministry of Environment and Space, as I can understand from these papers, we would now open the way and we could only say hello to this path. To those who, of course, still have doubts, I would just like to ask one more question. Where were you when Slovenia built thermal power plants? And do you drive to work with a car or with a wolf pack? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u112	Thank you. My friend Franz Onion would have gotten his word, he's not here. Ivan Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members and now on behalf of myself. Mr Brejc is already the principle of the windshield problem on the nanoplane, and I would like to say something. At that amendment that windmills all over Slovenia, which we accepted, I said: thank God that it was accepted, otherwise we had our own amendment, which only referred to the location of Primorska, so that ours was therefore meaningless and thank God that it was so. There's something I'd like to say about these environmentalists. I have nothing against nature. Of course not. But it doesn't make any sense to overdo it. About those mosquitoes mentioned by Mr Brejc, there was a meadow where there were never mosquitoes in that area in Podnanos and after the meadow had been made, mosquitoes came and now these indigenous animals in the Vipava Valley - I mean, sometimes there is also a bit of a comical thing - and now we need to protect it. I have nothing against mosquitoes, or snakes, or anything. Then last year there was a lecture in the Vipavska Valley about these windmills that it was very dangerous for birds. I mean - speaking more amateurally - but where it always blows, for the first time, it's already a good condition for windmills, for birds I don't know how much they're holding up. If there was a lake on Nanos, I don't think there'd ever be a bonus there. That's why I think because I also talked to hunters and foresters who go there, and they say no birds are there in such a number that the species are at risk. If it were just some birds that were just on the island of Nanos and nowhere else like, say, white-headed eagles or hawks on the island of Cres, then it would be for that. And then it's interesting that there was an immediate affair, that there were windmills everywhere, even in the Vipava Valley itself, and not in Nanos. That was a little absurd, so we also protested and made these amendments. It is still necessary to talk a little more constructively about this matter. And I think that the very appearance of these windmills - after computer simulation, when I looked at it, it seems to me that there is nothing unkind or that it would be challenging, or whatever it might be called, even if it was painted in gray or grayish, then it would be visually disguised. So I support these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u114	Thank you. I give my word to Aurelius Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u115	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Even after the general discussion of the proposed changes and the addition of spatial components of the social plan, we welcomed the introduction of wind energy use into national energy in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats and called for such solutions in the proposal for a decree that the launch of this project would not only make sense but, above all, be possible. Since the basic text, however, is too difficult if we want to achieve this goal, because the construction of wind power plants is also at the most interesting, it is the most distorted areas, it completely subjugates some other equally legitimate priorities, that is to say, protecting the natural and cultural values of national importance, we welcome all the amendments that have been tabled on this subject and which make it a little easier to find compromise. We certainly support the amendment drafted and adopted by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee because I think it is the most balanced. And once again, we call upon the Ministry or Government to return all windy areas with Golic, which have been eliminated as naturally questionable or inappropriate, to the list of sites We also support the Social Democratic Party's amendment to study the exploitation of wind potential elsewhere in the country. And another final thought, I repeat somehow what I have already said in general. Of course, we are talking about certain natural values of national importance, we are talking about a fauna that is supposed to be threatened here. I believe, of course, that naturalists and those who put themselves in charge of this fauna have all the professional grounds to defend such arguments. I argue that, not because of the interests of people who, of course, would gain something from such a project in the very place where this project comes into being, but because of the need to finally move -- and decisively -- towards the use of renewable alternative co-natural resources, we must of course find that this energy is necessary. In our small space, we will contribute to the global recovery of the world, if we want, climate change is a serious warning, and not so long further, of course, we will also be able to see the catastrophic effects of what is happening in nature. So let us start with renewable resources as soon as possible, and when a nest may be endangered, we must also risk endangering it. Because if we don't do this now and start with a firm alternative source, among which wind energy is certainly one of the purest and most natural, we in 20 or 30 years, now a little speculation, we will not protect this nest, not many others, not ourselves. I therefore once again call for this priority to be set, and I think that the amendment, which the Committee has also adopted in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u116	Thank you. I'd have a word with Mr Branko Janc, I don't see him in the hall. That's why I'm giving the word to Branko Kelemini, who isn't. Colleague Lydia Majnik is also absent. Dorian Marshich, he's not here. Davorin Targeton, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The majority of colleagues have remained on the subject, which I will also touch and which is part of the decision amending the spatial plan, which is the possibility of using wind energy. I have drafted a number of amendments myself or with my fellow Members, and I must say right at the outset that I will support the amendment of the committee, which is the fourth amendment to Article 2, which amends paragraph 4. I will also support the ninth amendment of the Social Democratic Party, which extends the possibility of increasing wind energy consumption across Slovenia. Otherwise, the difference between the committee's amendment and mine, i.e. under the 5th point of the amendment tabled, is only in the fact that the committees allow the installation of wind power plants up to 1 megawatt in accordance with the regulation or with the insurance act in a certain protected area, while my amendment did not allow even those, i.e. the smallest power plants in these most sensitive areas. I must say that the decree, as originally written, would in some way prevent the use of wind energy in Slovenia, because it would prevent any interference with all natural values under the nature conservation law. The fact is that a number of measurements have already been made, especially in western Slovenia, in the Primorska area, and that some areas have been identified as suitable for the construction of wind power plants. If this amendment had not been adopted, it would have been practically impossible to use wind energy in the future, because, according to all the opinions that the naturalists have submitted, only one location remained, which, due to the scale, is questionable because of the cost-effectiveness of the use. Because we know we need a certain range for the wind field, too. On the basis of this amendment, if adopted, it will be possible to put these power plants, or such energy generation, under certain conditions, under certain conditions, if we are reading the exact decree, which are also naturally oriented, to the extent that I am aware of it. So it'll be possible to set it up. Here I must say that I see also some contradiction of the nature-protection lobby, so I can call it, which is intellectually very strong and mediaically also very present, because on the one hand it declares it supports this type of ecologically indisputable energy, on the other hand, when we want to get to concrete, in a particular case, the nature-protection conditions are so acute that virtually this type of wind energy use has not been possible. The adoption of this amendment will, in my opinion, also be a milestone for over-conservative nature conservation in Slovenia alone; in Slovenia, which is a country that is growing at one of the highest rates in Europe and is also one of the most fertile countries in Europe. I think that maybe the naturalists would suggest themselves, so that they would also take that into account. I understand and also have a subtle attitude towards nature in some way. And I understand the aspirations of naturalists when it comes to actual threats to nature when it comes to over-industrialization and over-pollution. However, in the country and in the areas where nature itself has created some currents that actually prevent some normal human beings, they should probably also step back a little bit and allow at least European comparable interventions and ultimately European comparable, ultimately, quality of life.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u118	Thank you. Does the government want to be involved in the general debate? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Perhaps just thanks to all the debaters, without exception, for their support in the way of thinking. It is true that I now praise those who have tabled amendments that change the government text to a significant extent. Nevertheless, it seems to me that it is very right that this has happened, to actually get the right pulse of political space. It should be borne in mind that, in planning, the design of this spatial act, of course, stems from some groups that are relatively close to the shells of their ivory towers and do not see real life. The second page is really what you warned us about, the last Aurelio Juri. See, Slovenia, for example, increased electricity consumption by 7.2% last year only this year, by 3.5% because of increased household and business consumption, and by 3.7% because Talum turned his new large investment into operation, which is very wasteful. At this rate, we will become a net importer of electricity within two years, regardless of whether we would use all the electricity from the Krško nuclear power plant. This, of course, will make our position, the position of electricity buyers, worse. Therefore, it is difficult to say how necessary this instant investment is to invest in new energy facilities in Slovenia, which of course are not carried out by the country, as it once was, but by private investors. The task of the State is - and in some ways thank you for understanding you, Members and Members - to enable the conditions under which this will be possible. That is why I think it is through this debate and this decision, which I assume will be by supporting the amendments of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Social Democratic Party, and the amendments of the Committee summarise the amendments of the groups of Members with the first-signed Mr Terčon that this decision will be a milestone in a new understanding of the development needs and actually planning interventions into a space which, on the one hand, must preserve the quality of our space and, on the other hand, should not become a blockade, on the other hand, on the basis of which everything will stop just so that something small may not change. I think this is important, and I thank you for this debate, and I hope that we will be able to move things forward conceptually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u120	Thank you. This would conclude the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 10.12.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am giving the title of the law or decree and the amendment of the committee to the title in the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. I am putting to the debate Articles 2 and 11 of the amendment to Article 2. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 2. I am putting to the debate Article 3 and the amendment by Mr Branko Janca and the SDS Group of Members to this Member. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Thank you. I'm closing the debate. Article 4, the amendment of Branko Janca to Article 4. I don't see a desire to discuss it. I'm putting the address and the amendment of Branko Janc into the debate. Nobody wants a word either. Article 5 and the amendment of Branko Janca to this Article. Nobody wants a word. We're moving to the cartographic section. Anyone want a word on the committee's amendment? [[Nobody.]] Today, we will vote or decide on the amendments and the motion for a decree as a whole in accordance with the meeting's timetable after the closing 14th item. This concludes this agenda item. At 4:05 p.m., we will continue our session with the 13th item of the agenda. Thank you so much for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u121	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue with the work of the National Assembly. We're moving on to 13. This is on the programme of work of the Society for Automobiles in Slovenia for the year 2002. The programme was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I welcome between us the Minister in his resignation and the candidate for Minister Jakob Presecnik and Magi. Janez Christmas, president of the board of directors of Dars. I give my word to the minister to give the opening statement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! This first point, I must say, will, of course, be a more substantive point, this point, which is now under consideration, is being considered practically at the end of the calendar year, this is a work programme adopted by the government in July and is fully in line with the annual maintenance and development plan for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for 1992. In view of the fact that it is now being considered, I would only say that this programme is practically already being implemented or that it will be 100% realized by the end of the year. I think that, at this point in time, other information, given that it has also been extensively addressed on the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, on which amendments were also created on the basis of the debate and the opinions of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, so I think I can end this. The amendments were also accepted by the government when it was still full of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u123	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to the Chairman of the Infrastructure Committee, who refuses this introductory explanation or report, so we will go to the presentation of the views of the groups. First of all, I give the floor to my colleague Ivan Kebrich, the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Ivan Kebrich, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The work programme presented to us is beautifully written. However, those who already have experience face up to a specific work programme each year, but the implementation balance is, of course, a completely different chapter. That is why I personally do not believe this work programme because I am sure that it will not be carried out from such and otherwise, the main reason will be an objective reason for the work to be significantly irritated and that the money is simply running out. That is why I expect the Minister to respond a little more thoroughly to this implementation, to this my suspicion of the possibility of implementing this programme. I would very much welcome if this programme were actually implemented. However, I repeat that from experience, both in the past mandate and now, we are always faced with certain excuses in realisation. I think that, after all, it is not just an objective reason, but that, in certain cases, it is also subjective because the organisation of work and delaying and relying on each other, because, last but not least, certain local communities attach a pot and certain things also to such and different interventions outside this programme, or that this programme is even expanding in certain areas. Therefore, I will listen carefully and with concentration to those who are responsible for the implementation of this programme that has been submitted to us. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr Zammernik would like to present, instead, a fellow Sušnik, the position of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u126	Thank you very much. We fully agree with the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, which has also been adopted by the Infrastructure Committee, that it is a little strange that this programme is adopted in December, regardless of the fact that we have heard the Minister's statement that it is in line with the 2002 annual plan for the maintenance and development of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. However, it would suggest that you prepare such a document for the second time and submit it to the National Assembly first. Our second observation or an indication of this programme is the non-compliance of this programme with the national highway construction programme. We are also here in the view of the Committee that it is necessary to prepare as soon as possible, to re-evaluate our options, to assess where, in the construction of the highway cross or the failure to build the highway cross with the declared national programme, we are going to incorporate into the revised and complementary national programme. While we are concerned about this backlog, it will continue to result in inconsistent regional development. It's hard to find a reason to fall behind. It is also one of the likely causes of the inconsistent separation of the planned petrol toll for the purpose of the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Nor does the programme itself see or see how the restructuring of Dars is or is to take place, given that more or less everyone already knows that there will be a reduction in the state share in Dars and that it is necessary to approach or seek new original ways of financing the construction of the highway programme. This is also one of the things that we refer to as an indication of the proposed programme of work of the Society for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. I would also like to point out that the 2002 programme also mentions the acquisition of documentation for the construction of new toll stations in order to inadvertently impose the feeling that the construction of toll stations is in line, not on the basis of the established toll system, that the new way or placement of toll stations is not in line with the decisions adopted in the National Assembly, so as not to eliminate inequalities or differences between nationals of the Republic of Slovenia in the payment or use of motorways. I don't think such a solution to the construction of toll stations is good enough not to be based on some specific long-term planned toll collection. We are also aware that tolls are one of the key sources for the continuation of the construction of the highway cross and that not everything or partial solutions, which are expensive and for which we fear will not be permanent here. Nevertheless, we will say more about the programme and the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003. We also expect the Ministry to present changes to the national programme very quickly or in due course, and that we will be discussing the annual plan of the Association for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 at least in the first half or at least in the first quarter of 2003. That would be logical, and I hope that the practice we are witnessing today will not happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u127	Thank you. The position of New Slovenia will be given by Ivan Mamić. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u128	Thank you. My forerunners said what I was going to say myself, so I'm not going to hold on to anything. Interestingly, now that we're dealing with the vocabulary a little bit, we'd say we're processing a history in the future. It's a little contradictory. As a builder, it is clear to me that sections are being made, three sections are being made this year. Start and end. So much "bones and bass", I'd say Italians. That would be very transparent. Just one section, if it's 20 kilometers long, it's going to be 8 kilometers this year, it started last year, it's going to end the second year and so on. It's a continuity. Of course. And that brings us all to the point of transparency. That banner is painted with one black emulsion, so we can't see anything through. And I really miss that to be more oriented to make it easier to talk about. Otherwise, I continue to say this on behalf of the Group of Members, not only on my behalf. I'll say something else in my name. Only when I've been watching a little bit back, years ago, how much highway program has been made and how much money has been spent, as fast as it's really done on the grave, turns out that every mile of highway is about 4 billion tolars. Of course, there are also toll stations, all accompanying facilities, deviations, overpasses, undercarriages, and I don't know anything else, fences and so on. But it still seems to me that 4 billion is a kilometer away from the highway, but it's a little excessive. Of course, it also depends on what the terrain is. Through the trojans, it's going to cost 5 times as much, I'm thinking a little bit about it, like through some valley, because the earth's works are different and so on. But I still think it's weird. So that would be one question that we're wondering if that's really how it is about the money itself, and then I'd answer it in my own name. So far, so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u129	Thank you. And the position of SLS, Ivan Bozič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Motorways in Slovenia, I said yesterday, are a programme of the countries of the Republic of Slovenia and are not only a program these years when they are being built. This is a great programme, a national programme, and we can say that in all history we will be most proud when we have built motorways. But everything can't be done quickly. I also explained yesterday that the program that was originally designed 10 years ago predicted much less than we are building today. All the follow-up stuff about the highway that is being built only irritates the program. And here in this hall we sit the one who decides to spend money that way. At the end of the year, talking about the work we did last year is actually just a report, even though we will adopt the programme for this year. In doing so, I cannot go beyond the two conclusions that often raise questions in our parliamentary group: investment in fixed assets, in other roads, state roads at the construction of a highway - a billion 970 million. That's more than 10% of the money we have for all the other state roads. And I think that where the highway is built, much more is invested in state roads than where we will never have highways. If we are talking about the Upper Suča, the highway for relief, as well as for the protection of nature we will never have, but for roads there is much, much less money than for those areas of Slovenia where the highway goes. It is a mistake to think that the highway itself, which goes through some places, will bring development to this place; the highway is only for moving traffic, for moving goods, and it does not generate development itself. And the second, which is a common criticism, is the cost of tolls. If we look at this year's management and toll collection costs, 4 billion 40 million and all the regular maintenance of highways 4 billion 237 million. I think that's gonna have to be changed. Whenever we talk about it, we talk about the main part of transport around major centres in Slovenia. If we just remember the number of traffic when we talked about it, in the south and west of Ljubljana, 70,000 and more vehicles per day, driving without paying tolls, against those who for 30-year-old highway to the west, Vrhnika-Postojna, we have been paying the toll for all 30 years. These things will have to be settled in the future. And the frequent criticism of borrowing credits, as shown in the first three items, the gas toll of 33 billion and half, the tolls and rents of 22 billion 980, and the loans of the international financial institution of 24 billion 80 million. So it is not true that tolls and gas tolars do not allow the borrowing of international credits, as we spoke yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u131	Thank you, Ivan Christmas. These were the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. In the order they were reported, Franz Pukšič would have been given the floor, but he was not present. Ivan Mamić, will you discuss it? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u132	Thank you. Of course I'll discuss it. First of all, I have to thank Dars for starting working a fast road across the Vipavska Valley, along the Rebernica. Mr Bozič also said something about tolls, but somehow he would have continued, not because both gravitys against the Italian border, but because we have similar questions about this. For example, if we look only at the fact that there is a fast road along the Vipavska Valley, and if we compare, say, driving along a fast road along the Vipavska Valley, there are also cases of driving ten times more expensive than in some other sections across Slovenia. Specifically. If I'm driving from village to vortex, that's about 12 kilometers, I have to give you 310 tolars. Twenty-six tolars cost me a mile. And that's why I'm personally avoiding this department. I'd rather go to Nova Gorica on an old road that's even shorter than three to four kilometers. But if someone drives from Vrhnika to Jarš, for example, transports, I'll say, 30 kilometers, and pays 70 tolars. That's two and a half. Two-and-a-half tolar comes a mile from the freeway. That's what they say. It's ten times more expensive than a fast road. It doesn't make any sense. And that's why I also stressed, this is about that amendment, about the toll station in Vogrska, or it's for 2003, but I'll tell you. If a toll station is built there, people will avoid it even more, and they won't drive down the fast road, because they'll go down to the village or they won't even go up. Not even from Ajdovščina. If I lived in Vipava, I'd drive normally with a clear conscience. I'd pay 310 tolars because I'd drive 30 kilometers. I'm talking about absurdity now. We have little comparisons. And that's why I said I'm referring to Mr. Christmas, because he also mentioned, say, the Ljubljana Ring, no one's paying. It is clear to me, too, that the toll would be on the Ljubljana ring to make it even more crowded throughout the city of Ljubljana. I agree. That's right. It's all over the place. But some key could still be found. And whether or not I know what to call it should be taken into account. That's one. I will now give a replica to Mr President for yesterday's debate. I didn't want to replicate at the time because I didn't want to convince anyone else to oppose his election. I've been so adjusted. But I said, if a gas tolar were to be used for its purpose, 100 percent would be significantly more motorways built. And he said it wasn't true. But if we're talking about collecting more from the gas toll than investments for motorways, I don't know how much it's collected, because I've never received an answer to this question, how much does the gas toll collect per year? I've got some information somewhere about half of it being highways. But all the credits aren't the same as the gas tolar. And the toll goes with it. All credits are said to be one third of all investments. And that third of the credits, what it costs in the final phase, is that if we add up all those interest rates, of course in so many years they will come, but if it all comes together, we get some result, I'm speaking roughly because I don't have any numbers because I don't have them because I never got them. It's that transparency that I have to say again about her, as I mentioned earlier. As long as we don't clear this up, we just can't even talk. I'm different for this program, too, thank God if it's fulfilled. I support him. Sure. Before that, I forgot to say that our client also supports him. He's got his back. For 2003, we will have the same conversation for the second year, as it is now, if things don't take their place. I don't know why not. So, please, have a little seat and study things and let it be done once. What's there to hide? Are you commanded not to tell the opposition MPs how much money is collected and how it is spent? It's probably easier to patch up budget holes with money that comes out nice on a platter than to raise some credits, that's clear to me. It would be fair for the government to at least say that we know that I can say it on the ground because people are asking me. They say you've accepted it, you've accepted it. And then I say, no, we didn't take it, they accepted it. And it's also unfair to say that. Parliament has adopted, I am a member of this Parliament, it is said, we have accepted. But to put it very clearly, I didn't vote for it. Why do we have to get into situations like this? And people also have the right, taxpayers, to get an answer to that question because they are interested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u133	Thank you. Aurelio Yuri has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u134	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, representatives of the government, the Ministry of Transport and the companies for motorways! The work programme of the company for motorways for 2002 is adopted not two weeks before the end of the year. I believe that we are in this kind of an escape, that elsewhere in Europe, of course, this is not happening just before the end of the year. Then we will also consider and adopt an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for the year ahead. And that's better. However, it would make sense for us to adopt, or at least have had an insight into, the proper work programme of Darsa in line with the plan. In the United List of Social Democrats, we expect this to happen immediately after the new year when the construction plan is adopted and, of course, the corresponding Darsa programme is prepared. Well, let's not do that next year in December. Nevertheless, and with the announcement that both the 2000 social programme and the 2003 annual plan will be put to the vote, allow me to point out that this is not the best way to do it, gentlemen. Besides, we all have to admit together that we have not had the happiest hands in this business all year, since 1991. The project, I have in mind the entire highway cross or its individual parts, we plan, we evaluate it, we start to implement it, then we find that we counted, planned wrong or under the price, and that we are running out of funds to guide it forward as we imagined. With always convenient rebalancing, we take care of the supposed appropriate correction, in the belief that it will turn out this time, but later we will find ourselves again a fitting situation, and this happens again every few years and it drags things on forever. To see this happen once in the beginning, when you are green, inexperienced, it is somehow understandable and justifiable. Less and less if it starts to happen again or if it happens to you when you're older. We celebrated about a week ago the 30th anniversary of the first highway section in the country. Congratulations, of course, on that feat. Evidence that our road construction profession has long since gone down, therefore it is difficult to understand that from year to year we are proving how much more or less everything is going according to plan and the delays to the original planned and accepted are increasing and the costs are rising. We're already talking about the double value of the entire cross's investment. I estimate that the time foreseen for this is slowly doubling. It would be nice and responsible, gentlemen, and I am also telling all of us that at the beginning of a project cycle, which could be the mandate of a government, i.e. four years, when planning and evaluating the project more correctly, we should, in this and this time, from this year to that year, build, for example, in this or that quarter, so many kilometers of highways, 90, 100, 120 or more, or build these and these sections, which should follow a strategic choice of direction. Then we surrender everything to our purpose and rejoice. I didn't agree to every few miles we open. So much for the program. In adopting both the Dars programme for this year and the annual plan for next year, we are forced to do so, otherwise what is moving would have stopped. But the time has come, ladies and gentlemen, that you are in the new balance that awaits us, we say, [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] and here I conclude the idea of how much money we have, how much money we can do, and how long will we complete and complete our project. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u135	Thank you. Now I would get the word of my colleague Janez Podobnik, who is not present, Dorian Marshič, who is not, Branko Kelemina, who is also not present, wants to discuss it again. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u136	Thank you very much. See, in section 2.1.6 - Organizing and managing the final works on the motorway, which were placed on the market after 1.1.1994, is a series of motorway sections or virtually everyone who was built and dedicated to transport, which we are independent in Slovenia. In this regard, I would like to raise two questions or two problems. In fact, there are still three, four, or even more years since the individual sections were dedicated to transport, and we do not have any regulated land book matters in these highway sections. That's a very big, very big problem. Even those additional purchases that were needed due to excessive or excessive interference in individual lands have not yet been adjusted. I think it would be very good if we could say that one highway section concluded that we would not be repeated again next year in this section - organisation and management of the final works - just all the motorway sections that were built in the past period. In this context, I would also like to say that we also have an unresolved transfer of individual deviants and public roads that have been built as part of a highway programme in the local community. It is insurmountable that we have these motorways or these deviations in management, but we are not the owners of these deviations, which are completely outside the freeway, in the fact that we have contributed a significant share of the general or municipal good to the highway of the local community. This is what I think would be the next issue, which, in the absence of the definition of liability in terms of the evolution of traffic on this road section, which is part of some local roads or public roads in the local community, would be urgently needed to be regulated. The third thing that relates to the work done is the problem that we are also facing those who have stayed by these highways, which is the problem of over-bought. On these exports, local communities planned a certain use of space at interesting locations. There have been changes to spatial plans. Today, however, we are faced with a practical response to Darss that everything that the state has over-bought is virtually impossible to obtain and use for other purposes, although it is completely outside the highway network and is not foreseen by any means, not by any other document, not by any other use of these land. This is quite a large plot of land, the use of which is foreseen by spatial plans, with spatial implementation plans of local communities. However, since ownership cannot be regulated, at least that is the case with your people from the legal service, we are completely blocked in the use of this space. I think that this problem needs to be opened up, that we face this problem, and I also expect you to give one way to solve it. I think it would also be cost-effective for Dars to sell off those lands that he doesn't need, because I also see one source of funding for the construction of motorways in this way. This is large and extensive surfaces, when then these parcels, which had to be bought, are considered as a whole. I think it would suggest we do that. On the other hand, I must say that we are also faced with the problem of not fully working on individual motorway sections previously defined in individual regulations. Here is the seriousness, legitimacy, not least the promises made at the time to the local communities, which are also described and legislated in the form of a regulation, have not been fulfilled. And it's not a good trip for Dars and it's not good and it makes it difficult for you to put highways in the environment in which you still have to put them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u137	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek would be next. He's not here. I would now like to give the floor to the representatives of the government. Is he going to be a minister, or is he going to be someone else? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u138	Thank you very much for your words and for your questions, but especially for your initiatives. Many debaters have expressed certain initiatives that need to be taken into account in the functioning of both ministries, governments and Darsa. Maybe just try to answer some things. By addressing the next item today, we are correcting the need to prepare the annual plans in a timely manner, and immediately thereafter we will also prepare the Dars work programme. Thus, the real government has adopted this programme late, as I said before, in July and in Parliament it is being addressed significantly later. Regarding tolling and toll stations, I might say this because we have dealt with this many times in recent times, including two days ago, and earlier on on the infrastructure committee itself several times, last time we considered these two points on the committee, that I do not know what else to add, but, as we all recall, this scenario, which we called the synthetic scenario and the final method of tolling, was prepared by the government on the basis of a study, an extensive study which was also made for this purpose. This scenario was addressed by the Government which submitted this scenario to the National Assembly and was then confirmed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee of the National Assembly. However, I think that once - but I am not sure at this point - it was addressed in the National Assembly itself. Mr Mamić earlier said that he had asked the question two days ago, so you gave me little indication that I had answered the wrong question. I haven't had those papers since, like, two days ago, but I remember you -- and I remember that well -- by saying that in the event of a gas toll under the previous law, if we briefly called it the gas toll law, you would benefit entirely from not having to have credits. I did not say that I would not build any more with a gas toll, but I replied that without credit, even in this case, it would not work because the national programme itself is built so, so on three sources, on the law on the provision of funds or the law on petrol toll, in short, from credits, tolls and other smaller resources. As far as the last debater, Mr Sušnik, is concerned, it is true that these buying-in procedures, the final redemption procedures, are sometimes long-term, the relevant services are working on this and sometimes there are various reasons why it is not possible to settle this matter immediately. We'll see what's going on with these deviants. Perhaps the President of the board here will be able to respond more specifically. But it is true that, which is the third question, we have been dealing with this problem of unused parcels for quite some time. It is those parcels that are necessary for the purchase, because there is either no possible division of parcels or it is not possible for individual owners to buy only parts of the plot, sometimes because the rest of the plot is also inaccessible or whatever. So there are different reasons. We have been working for quite some time on trying to resolve this problem in the framework of legislation, both at Dars and at the Ministry, so that these parcels, where possible, are accessible, can be sold off by appropriate procedures. Thus, on the one hand, it is useful to move forward without lying dead parcels somewhere along one highway, and on the other hand there is also some income that comes back, which had previously gone due to the redemption itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u139	Thank you. Ivan Kebrich, since you haven't made the most of your time, you still have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. Given that I have two more minutes at my disposal, I am asking the following question. I will not go down in criticism, which has been said to be better if we already get this program to at least get a reality report. However, I believe that the question here is: When will we receive the 2003 programme? At the same time, I ask the Minister when a study or study will be submitted on how to collect the toll in the future, as we have made several proposals in this National Assembly to consider what would be more appropriate, without these toll stations, or stickers, or something else they have long known abroad. I recommend two answers for you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u141	Thank you. The agenda shows that the programme for 2003 is the next item on the agenda. But the rest is next. We took advantage of the reports from the debate. But there was still time for discussion. Anyone else want a word? I'll write it down first, Mr. Gasparini. Anyone else? Thank you. I'd like to give the Minister a word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u142	Thank you very much. I'd like to answer Mr. Kebrich. We have considered this toll study in the National Assembly or, as I said before, in the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment. And in progress, the project task of this second part, electronic tolling or tolling in the free traffic flow that we have undertaken in this scenario, in this programme, adopted by the Government, as I have already pointed out, and the Infrastructure Committee, has committed itself, taking into account European tolls, to say so, or the practices of other European countries, to try to prepare this programme so that it can be implemented in 2008. However, with regard to the programme itself, if the next item is adopted today, we will also draw up a programme in a very short time and there is no reason to delay this programme. But it is a condition, of course, that this plan is accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u143	Thank you. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u144	Thank you very much, Vice President. The Honourable Minister and the others! Yesterday I asked you if you'd prefer the fifth corridor or the tenth. In front of me is a newspaper from Trieste, yesterday where they say Italy is late, the fifth corridor in a deep coma. And then, if I read to you, "The problem is thunder," he said literally, "not in the European Union, but in Slovenia and Hungary." I have to tell you, it's not just yesterday, but for months and months it's been said that Slovenia doesn't really care about the fifth corridor, but it's more of a flirt, it's supposed to be building and it's supposed to be the tenth corridor. As you said yesterday, I fully agree with you that you can see that Slovenia is actually working on this fifth corridor, we see this from Black Kal, if you want, to the intersection and also to Šmarjeh, and so on. So it's this highway. However, it bothers me that Italy - even I have to tell you - also offers loans. And, say, the former mayor of the market Ilich, who is now in parliament in Rome, asks the country government to lend to the construction of the highway in Slovenia and Hungary, because they are very interested. But it can also be because they have very many problems at home and that they are somehow blamed on Slovenia and Hungary to cover, in fact, the problems that Northern Italy has, particularly in the area of Venice. But it bothers me that I always have to read here, how Slovenia stops and how it wants the tenth corridor. The tenth corridor goes north of the Alps, because we know this thing. The second thing that happens here is the Trieste River, the highway. There is also a link between Austria and the port of the river. I don't know if you know, but some shareholder, and this majority owner of the river port, is Austria and, of course, the Austrians want to strengthen the link between the River Danube and the Austrians. And it bothers me terribly. That is why I ask you once again that this fifth corridor - and that it also appears to the Italians if you want Slovenia to actually stick to this order, so that the fifth corridor will be "forced" and then this tenth is likely to come into play. This is not directly related to the agenda item, but it could also be said at the next point. But these are the things that have been going on here since yesterday, and the country government of Furlania, the Julian landscape, has been dealing with this. And it's dealt with every week. And it's always in Slovenia. Slovenia's nowhere. But you have to admit, we didn't do anything on rail transport. They drew some tunnels or 42 kilometers of tunnel, nothing else. And that's what it's worth. The loss of Luke Koper with the connection, I don't know, with Maribor, if you want, I think it represents something for Slovenia. I said yesterday, the tenth corridor is just transit. The fifth corridor is the transit and port of Koper and the port of marketing. What does that mean for Slovenia, you know. That's why I'm calling on you to give the fifth corridor an advantage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u145	Thank you. You can turn it off, Mr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u146	This, we have discussed two days ago, but we all know that the fifth corridor is an extremely intensive and full building, where it is not yet built, even in Prekmurje, except for one part of Prekmurje. As regards the fifth corridor in the road area, Italians, of course, have significantly bigger problems in the area of Maester or Venice and so on. If you are now taking from Ljubljana to Venice, I assure you that you will reach the toll station before Venice almost sooner than from that toll station to Venice itself. Thus, most of the intensity of construction is, of course, on the fifth corridor, by building intensively also those sections that are ready, which are the most burdensome, including on the tenth, Dolenjska, also something small in Gorenjska. Of course, the tenth corridor is not only transitive, as the fifth corridor is not only transitive. Finally, the 10th corridor connects Gorenjska with the centre of Slovenia and the center of Dolenjska with the centre of Slovenia, if only these two places are named. So I think that the intensity of construction is on the fifth corridor, that greater intensity can no longer be, and that, by all plans and contracts, this transport will be both the road to the sea and the Trojan at the beginning of 2005. So all the objectives are focused on this, and all the activity is focused on the fact that the two most difficult sections will be completed by the end of 2004. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u147	Thank you. Aurelio Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u148	I would like to make a very short contribution to this subject, of course, to the Minister. There is still a very specific question because he talked about speeding up where everything is ready for this, within the framework of the fifth corridor where I agree with him. I'm counting on the heart of the Sermin-Skofia Rapid Road. They're supposed to be built by 2001. With the balance, we've moved them to 2003, I'm hearing about 2010. Please don't let that happen. It's about 3 km of valuation, if I'm not mistaken, 7 billion tolars, for which all the paper war is long gone, all the ransoms are flowing and there are no problems. It wouldn't make sense if we were there stalling this construction. It is now said to build the first 400 m, but of course to complete in due course, at least until the Italian section of Lakotište-Rabujez reaches the border crossing. This is supposed to happen by 2004 or 2005. At that point, Luke Koper will actually be able if we upgrade these 3 km connected to the European highway network. That is why I am putting my heart at your fingertips to correct this, of course, in the next programme or in the balance, but not in 2010. I know we're not going to be able to finish this in 2003, but I'm talking about 2004, no later than 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u149	Thank you. We have exhausted the debate with this. I used to call, but we still have a point at the next point in the Spindler agenda. But we still have time. So I'm opening the second round. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Joseph Spindler, Mr. Jelko Kacin. Every five minutes to get started. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u150	Nice hello to you all! I've heard a lot about what's going on in this room today, and we see that the length of the highway program with the connections this year has been completed somewhere over 462 km and something else. So then we have here to build a toll system or toll station of 505 million tolars and to expand highway bases of 70 million. And if I finally look at these numbers, we're going to spend about 3 billion 150 million SIT to collect the toll. This seems kind of a relatively high number to me, even though it's urgent. Mr Christmas stressed that they have been driving from the west since the beginning for 30 years with a toll. I, too, am from such an area where somehow I have been paying here since the beginning of the construction of the first part of the highway to Styria, that we are paying this toll and it costs me so much. If someone took a pencil and calculated how much it cost you to take a car to Ljubljana, it would be quite a big number, despite the fact that we do not have any of this, except that we have paid a bus ticket from our home to Ljubljana and back. That's all we get. Despite the fact that you urgently need your car to carry out the work we do. In particular, I would support the Ministry of Transport and Communications and Dars here to expose these motorway stations as soon as possible, to collect these tolls as much as possible, because we find that the most toll we actually leave to those in the central part of Slovenia, where practically the most inhabitants are able to get this much. For example, if you are going from Parliament to Zagreb, you must transport 25 kilometers to the first toll station. This is not to be understood, but you have Grosuplje in common here, and Ivančno Gorica does not know everyone, free to drive on the road, but some of us have to pay for it, even though we will have to drive on these dear roads for a long time. For example, I spend from Ljutomer to the highway about an hour and so much around here on the highway to Ljubljana. This is a relatively significant difference. So I would actually support this program. I can see that it is here, in this programme, that this highway continues to be built, and I particularly welcome it, and I hope that the rest of Prekmurje will also run with regard to the fact that they have spent too long there, especially with corridors, which corridor is correct and now it seems to me that this corridor has been reached in Prekmurje, so that a motorway programme from the Beltinians to Lendava can also continue and continue towards the Hungarian border. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u151	Thank you. And my friend Jelko Kacin, please. Mr. Spindler, if you turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, thank you for your input. I would simply like to draw attention to the life needs related to the development of the Slovenian road cross. We are now formally discussing the year 2002, which is behind us, so that in a few minutes we can start talking about 2003 where more or less everything is set, but we are still discussing this because the operationalisation of some decisions requires a time frame. The only thing that would make sense would be to discuss 2004 because everything that will happen in 2003 is already set in terms of operational. But what I think is important is the fact that Slovenia is becoming a part of Europe by entering the European Union and therefore I think that in our philosophy, especially where highways run at major urban centres, the motorway should also be used as part of a communal network. Therefore, regardless of all the concerns so far, or other scientific, professional or measurement studies, we should find that the cheapest solution to road congestion is to tie cities along the highway with as many connections as possible to the motorway itself. In this case, the highway can be useful and useful and in real time also serves as a city bypass and largely relieves traffic. I think that in the future we will have to work towards such relatively cheap interventions and achieve significantly greater effects in a short time than we have now achieved with some greater investments. Everything we get is usually packed in front of cities or towns. And releasing these stoppers is the most productive approach. Therefore, Mr Minister, who is now beginning the second half of his mandate, and his colleagues in Dars, the professional services, would ask that, however, once again from another perspective, they look at what has been prepared so far, and where there is an obvious need, expectation and where the will in the municipalities, to participate actively, find a common language as soon as possible, both in their interest and in the interest of the lack of the Slovenian road cross, in the interest of so-called "cost-benefit" studies, when we are talking about how much a kilometer costs us. For what a colleague said earlier about how much a kilometer costs us will change in a moment when we increase the gap with such small investments and in this way, in fact, replace the large transport roads that would cost much more. It seems to me that we have a reserve here and that it would be valid at local level to listen to the expectations and needs of cities and municipalities along the route of the Slovenian road cross. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u153	Thank you. I would therefore consider that the debate at this point is concluded, exhausted. Since we will start the next point in time, which is exactly the same, only if it is 2003 we can hear and say a lot more, so I would conclude this debate. We will vote on the motion for a decree or agreement to this programme in the framework of a joint vote after the end of agenda 14. That's why I'm breaking up this agenda. At 5.30 p.m. we continue with the proposal for a decree on the 2003 annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways [[Item 14 of the agenda]] . Thank you so much for your cooperation so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u154	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We're moving to 14. Agenda item - Proposal for a Decision on the 2003 development and maintenance of motorways The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to a representative of the Government for an introductory explanation or an additional explanation. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members and Members! At the previous point, I think we have said quite a few words about this point, about the 2003 plan. In short, I would like to repeat what has already been dealt with on the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. It's a 116-billion-dollar plan. Of this, it's designed to build just a little bit over 91 billion. In doing so, I might point out that the envisaged four sections to be placed on the market in the following year in 2003 are a total of over 22 kilometres. This is part of the section of the Vučja vas-Beltinci because, as you know, part of this section has already been put on the market, I think, on 15 November. It is the transfer to the market of the section Lukovica-Blagovica, the transfer of the section Subtebor-Naklo and the Beach-Korenitka in Dolenjska. In addition, it is about 65 kilometers [65 km] of sections where construction continues in 2003 and about 40 kilometers [40 km] of sections where construction begins in the following year. So, all this data is in this material, so I think that in the introduction this presentation would be enough on my part, and I think it is better to answer the individual questions that will be raised in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u156	Thank you very much. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, as a parent working body, addressed the issue on the agenda. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Janka Vebra, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. At its 36th meeting, on 3.12.2002, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment carried out a review of the draft decree on the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003, transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 14.11.2002 pursuant to Article 24 of the Law on Public Roads. The motion for a decree explained in the introduction that the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003 is a document setting out the tasks and the level of resources needed to implement the programme. Thus, the 2003 budget provides for around 37 billion tolls, with the exception of these funds, tolls and domestic and foreign loans to be leased for the implementation of this plan in 2003. This programme assumes that 22.1 km of motorway will be put on the market, the construction will continue for about 65 km, and the construction of 39 km of motorways is also envisaged. In the debate that followed, the members of the committee again questioned the preparation of amendments and the completion of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the specific questions about the implementation of individual motorway sections moving away from each year, such as the retention of high-level lines in the Vransko-Trojana section and so on. While the 2003 and 2004 budgets show an increase in highway construction resources, it also appears that the share of the necessary credit funds is increasing enormously. This also raises the question of the repayment of loans already obtained, including interest. In view of all the issues raised by the Committee in all its deliberations, it is essential to prepare, as soon as possible, amendments and additions to the national programme of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and, in this context, to lay down real deadlines for the construction and real resources for this purpose. In addition to the answers to specific questions, the representatives of the proposer also presented activities carried out within the Government relating to the preparation of such changes and the completion of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, as well as the development programme for the period 2002-2005. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment also adopted the amendments listed in the material and adopted a decision at the end of the debate and the vote on the amendments: the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt a decision on the 2003 annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways together with the amendments of the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u158	Thanks for the report. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members to present the opinions of the groups. First of all, Ivan Kebrich for the position of the DeSUS Group. Ivan Kebrich, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! This issue, which we now have on the agenda, is not a side issue, but an essential issue for Slovenia. For the proposal of this decree, which we are now talking about for Dars, is linked to our previous debate, not just mine. This is the next one, and I am returning to the toll question in concrete terms. In Maribor we have 9 km from the border to the Posnica and we have to pay the toll. This toll is a negative issue for tourism, mainly because foreigners also know the old road, parallel, so all traffic, not all traffic, including freight, to avoid payment of tolls, through the old road through settlements and, of course, pollutes to a greater extent the atmosphere, the environment and everything else. On the other hand, voters in this area are urging us to drive another 25, 30 km without paying the toll. That is why I believe and appeal to the Minister of Transport to pay particular attention to this issue. It is true that we have already heard in the previous debate how much money is envisaged for certain new constructions of toll stations, but it will still not be resolved in such a way as to ensure that it is as fair to all citizens as possible, if not purely fair. We therefore propose the following in our Group of Members. Whether we are citizens before the laws and in this case we are equal or not to pay the toll. Whether someone is privileged, I also do not want to be a chauvinist or a local patriot, that central Slovenia has just solved certain matters, as it has been most convenient or most favourable. That is why I think and ask the Minister to give a concrete answer to what they will do for those short distances, where they also have to pay up to 10 km of toll, what is there, when there is just as parallel ordinary road, and there they drive 25 and 30 km to repeat themselves, free of charge, because someone is speaking to me as electors, citizens because someone has a better botar than they have or they have certain citizens from other regions of our country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u160	Thank you. Bogomir Zammernik, SDS Group of Members. Once again, my fellow Sušnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u161	Thank you very much. On the annual road development and maintenance plan for 2003 I would like to repeat what I said earlier about the work programme of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia for 2002. Our main comment on this 2003 annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways is that it is a derogation from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. We note that this development and maintenance plan practically enforces the practice once a smaller range of motorways is added each year. In 2003, only 22.1 km of four-passenger roads will be dedicated to transport under this plan, which, in our view, is severely understated. There was also a talk earlier about the construction of toll stations. Here we have serious concerns about the envisaged construction of the Ivančna Gorica toll station, and we have also tabled an amendment in this regard. The fact is that the construction of this toll station is a special case because there is no alternative to the road and all users of the road network from the area of Suha krajina and much of the municipality of Ivančna Gorica are left without free access or transport through this area. Here, in addition to the general principle, which is always violated, we are also violating this principle of equal access to motorways, which is to be used elsewhere, which is the principle of free transport on some route where there is simply no substitute road. I think we should think about this, because in the case of all other toll stations, there is a possibility of transportation. In the event of the construction of the toll station Ivančna Gorica, this is not possible. Well, somehow we don't accept investment in the toll system and toll stations, and in this way an increased cost for toll collection, which would be approximately 508 and several million tolars under this plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003. This seems to us a lot, and once again the question of when to start or when are you planning to introduce this contactless method, a quick way to collect the toll and equalise all citizens from the point of view of the use of motorways. I would also like to say that the existing method of toll collection, which is linked to leakage and congestion, also entails a disproportionate burden on individual sections of regional and main roads and, consequently, the overload of those which are also due to excessive burdens in extremely poor condition and do not receive sufficient maintenance in this programme, these road sections, where this traffic is taking place, which is more or less due to the avoidance of toll payments. At the very least, we would expect this annual plan to be accompanied by a necessary amendment of the national programme. I think that this would be useful and good and that a number of conclusions have already been adopted on this subject, including in the National Assembly and at this Committee. The amendment itself to Chapter 1.3.6. would say something later, if necessary. However, I think that it actually requires this clear answer, which, in the case of the introduction of a toll station, I emphasise what is not possible to use a parallel road, as we say in the case of the construction of the toll station Ivančna Gorica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u162	Thank you. Ivan Mamić, position of Nova Slovenije. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Once again, I welcome all the present! Now there's a couple of us more than an hour ago. In general, I could say that now the story from the previous point will be repeated, because these two materials are actually almost twins, and they also happen completely, let's say if we look at what's going to happen, it's nothing more than the 2002 follow-up, and I don't mean anything in a bad way. Mainly, I see that more than 116 billion investments are planned for this year. This, however, makes us a little more happy in our Group of Members. We'd be even more pleased if we could give the gas tolar more, but I'm already running myself over this gas tolar, so let it be. Now I'd like to go back to that, Mr. Presecnik, but I guess we didn't get along. I was saying that the money that would go out of the gas toll at least for highways and tolls, and if you had already taken into account those interest rates for credits, all of it, would have been substantially more made up of miles than with credits or the way it's done. I hope we understand each other. If you're saying it's not true, then you're thinking it, I'm thinking it differently. I wouldn't even talk about it anymore. And I don't think that's why we're gonna fight. If it has to be, so be it. Now I'm going to come back again, because this is at this point, at the Vogrsko toll station. I hope to say that if that toll station is made, less money will be collected than is being collected on a fast road through the Vipav Valley. Why? Because, for the first time, people go down to Vogrske and now for the time being, if there's a toll station, he'll go down, but he'll pay. Just like it's going down in Vogrske now, he'll go down to the village. And since he realizes earlier that if he paid 310 tolls, maybe 20 tolars would be less in Vogrska, he will simply not decide, and that is to say that the road will not be used that much. It would have been more used if, last year, I had suggested that these 310 tolars should be reduced by one third approximately, so that more cars would then be driven because the road is meant to unload the old road and use these roads. That's the point. And now if we did one study, I don't know, I think we'd come to the same conclusion. And even for the toll station, so much money has to be spent, and I don't know what else. Let's not talk about the psychological effect on the finals themselves. So I advise you, I warn you. Okay, now, if you insist on doing it, then we'll talk maybe one year after the highway station is built. I mentioned earlier that one kilometer comes about 4 billion tolars, counting from opening 15 or 16 kilometers every year, that's my unit, now I don't know, maybe I'm wrong, and now if we multiply it that many years times that many kilometers, we get that much and that much money, about 4 billion comes. No one answered that before when I pointed it out, and now I have to do it again; it's a waste of time, but let it be. I would mention another thing that is very common among people, and even in Parliament I have heard - that Slovenia is only one construction site where highways are built, and that it is hugely yes for motorways and I do not know what else. That's all true, but there's so much money from the industry going somewhere else. And that's why it's justified, at least my opinion is so, please. Now I wonder if I could at least get an approximate answer when the road will connect to Zagreb. Indeed, the market is now opening up in Belgrade, and because we know that the highway to Nis is almost done and so on, that Slovenia is probably interested in connecting to this line. So we'd only be interested in information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u164	Thank you. Bogdan Barovic would have got the word, but he's not there, and there's no one else in this task force. Ivan Bozič, Slovenian People's Party, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, this is the second time we've talked about highways. Motorways, we said that they should be built if we had already adopted the plan, and I hope that this national project of the Slovenian people will indeed be brought through. When we first spoke at the previous point, we can have little to do with the ashes ourselves in the National Assembly, as the report on the implementation of the work in 2002 has been in Parliament since 27 July, and we are only dealing with it today. While the 2003 programme or decree on the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways came to Parliament on 14 November, we are already considering it after a month. I am not going to talk a lot about sections that are being built, because we've already spoken to you and about them, we've voted about each and every one of them in the Infrastructure Committee, but I'm going to say and turn to something that bothers me the most. I am disturbed by the table on page 44 on the financial construction of motorways in 2003, for the first time, when we read under the table below 1.1., these are the funds that were provided for the construction of motorways by the national programme. 69 million, now in the plan there are only 69 billion, now only 37. This is said to be a 32.7 billion-strong drop in the tables. Also, the part that is intended and consumed from tolls is half. And from below is a very important paragraph, which says - with the national programme's rebalancing, the 2003 spending is set at 171 billion 573 million SIT. However, the 2003 Annual Development Plan provides resources of 116 billion 494 million SIT. On page 44 below. And the planned implementation covers only 68% of the national programme. I don't think that's good. Even though much is being built a year, this way we will not be able to hunt down our program. I'll also go back a little bit to the table showing the drawing of credits on page 42. In Chapter A under loans from international financial institutions and foreign loans, Autovie Veneto S. P.A., 885 million, but we've had 10 billion at our disposal for ten years for a certain section and we're not starting to build this section. We're starting, but in the crumbs. We also talked yesterday about lending to Kreditanstalt bür Wiederaufbau. All right, we're hiring credits, and I've already said from the tables on the previous item on the agenda that this can be returned from these funds for now, which we're going to rent as a loan. That's from a gas tolar and a toll. Only once will it be possible to break down if these are overcut in the national programme of dedicated funds each year. I'm not going to talk about other sections of the freeway alone. It is normal here in the hall to discuss the tolls. Roads and every thing where a person has to cut into a pocket is the point where people answer. I think it's just gonna be a need to get a smart comparison in a little while. Or those who drive outside the circles around the big centers, we really have to pay such high tolls, and those who drive around the big centers are driving without paying the toll. If you remember, over 70,000 vehicles are on the western side of the Ljubljana Circle daily, it takes a lot of weeks to get the number on the Vipavska road, mentioned earlier by colleague Mamić. But when we drive west, we have to pay the toll or drive on the old road. These things will need to be settled in the National Assembly and say whether we will be forgiven or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u166	Thank you. Peter Levich, Young People's Party. I'm asking for your position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u167	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. When we talk about highways, especially their construction, we are witnessing an interesting phenomenon. More and more major criticisms of changing deadlines and juggling with financial means. All the documents and regulations adopted by the National Assembly in this area are adopted almost unanimously. This decree on the 2003 annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways also took such a path on the home committee. 16 votes for, none against. This indicates loyalty to fate, and above all that, according to the theory of modern political communication, the process and the show have replaced the content. However, if political life is already running this way, this should not be repeated in the construction of motorways, but if it is so pleasant in front of cameras to cut red ribbons on individual pieces of built-up roads, usually before the elections. The fact is, Slovenians want modern transport connections and we need them. It is also true that from the start of construction there is no clear financial obligation to build, that construction is significantly more expensive than the original plans and even later revised plans. The saddest fact is that the end of the highway construction is constantly moving away. The Oorjak amount of credit is not worth losing words, nor is it that tolling on motorways is a real pattern of inequality and all that is contrary to common sense. It seems that even in the future it is true that some will pay for the use of highways much and too, while others will pay nothing. The younger generations have been used to this, and this pattern is already operating in other areas. What do we do? There's not much state choir can do. They obviously run the building and determine others. Who is this? I don't know. But I know who's paying. The ones we represent. So, taxpayers who blame us for a bad job. It also points out that the legislative - legal service has made it clear that certain sections and significant parts of the sections presented in the draft decree are merely a repetition of the current year or the previous year. In this way, the decree could be renamed the 2003 Decision on Refreshing the Desires of Motorways. However, we will probably support everyone under the proposed name, more than not, but what else is left for us. Who hopes to go home to people and say they voted against the development of highways? In a few years, we will adopt a new decree, but at least one thing is good: we already know its contents. And we also know that word "show must go on." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u168	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. First, I give my word to my colleague Branko Kelemini, who's giving her up. Ivan Mamić, who is also giving up on her. Comrade Janez Podobnik - also cancels. Ivan Kebrich, just like that. Anton Anderlich, he's quitting. Dr. Michael Brace is not present. Anton Butolen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. Actually, I was thinking about talking about roads or building highways in Ptujska, and then we agreed that Lydia Majnik would do it. Now I see she's not here. I would therefore like to express my surprise, however, that the construction of the highway or sections of the fast road to Ormož has taken such a long time. We know that the sections were already planned for 1999 and for 2000, some for 2001. Studies have been made, but there is no decision yet, so I appeal that this decision be found as soon as possible. After all, we need to harmonize, and we don't care, but he builds the streets of Dars and not the congregation. These decisions need to be found as soon as possible, and I appeal to Dars to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u170	Thank you. Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u171	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At this point, I will ask just one question or I would like to clear up the matter that I had already opened in part last year with regard to Chapter 5 - the cost of preparing investments and controlling implementation, so to speak, engineers. In a very specific case, I will describe my observations and also ask Director Dars to provide an appropriate explanation. In fact, in the same debate last year, I warned that control in the construction of motorways is obviously poor, which is reflected in the quality of new motorways. Of course, this supervision, the Institute of Engineering, is not cheap, 2.31% is about this purpose, which is according to my data above European standards. If engineers are well paid and Dars has a long-term contract with the organization and preparation of the work of engineers, Dars should require quality work, as this would objectively cost the construction of motorways. I note that in this area it is quite in the style of "hand washes" and that, as I have already said, this control is not being carried out so well. I want to know how many organizations Dars has now broken his control contract because they have not done their job well. And, as far as complaints were concerned, the value of the work done on highways and how long the guarantee lasted, say the quality of asphalt on the highway. In fact, now it's a concrete case. Last year I warned that at the time the newly built road Krtina-Ljubljana was after a very short time of use or already new in a very poor structure of the road. Now it is the same situation from the next section of Krtina-Kompolje or Lukovica. I drive a lot, weekly on Slovenian highways, of course most on the Ljubljana section - Maribor. And I have to say, these sections are that the structure of the highway here is in the worst condition, even though they are the latest sections. Here at a speed of 130 km, there are literally jumpers on the road, the car bounces. This is an illegal poor quality of the structure of the road, and this control has not done its job here. I expected, for example, that these things on the road Krtina - Ljubljana will be resolved because I think someone had to react. Because it's got to be a guarantee or a complaint. For allowing such an unprofessional work, such a poorly built road means that something is left to someone or that probably not all materials have been built according to budget and technical standards, and in this area Dars will have to do much more. That's unacceptable. A newly built road in such a state, but this is not a barrier area. That's not gonna happen. At least I understand that. At the bar, the situation is different, where these settlements are more or less expected. However, this is not a baryan area and there can be no technical, technological excuses for a new open road in such a state. And I'm really curious about how many you broke your contract with because of your insolent performance. How many times has it been found that contractors have breached contractual arrangements, technical standards and so on? How many works have been done in the title of the complaint? I would like just for this section Lukovica - Ljubljana. I haven't seen anything, except maybe they were fixing a fence on the road, and since I've been on the road a week, I haven't noticed anything. But I know so much about technology that I know that this road is not as capable as it should be for a new road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u172	Thank you. Comrade Gez Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since there seems to be no interest, I also have a little more time within the parliamentary group to say something that I may have said before and is an integral part of the discontent that you all express within the annual programme today. Here's an opportunity for everyone to point out their wayway, which they know exactly why they're where they are. But there is something to be said. We all know how the national programme came about in 1993, when it was just a spine that was getting bigger ribs and a cross. And of course, out of a billion and a half dollars, the numbers are approximate, of course, the story of the five and more billion dollars that we all participated in, each in our own way. I do not object to the fact that 2003 is what we did not consider at the time. The justification of individual parts of Slovenia, even if the frequency of traffic is such that a road connection is necessary, of course we cannot and must not oppose it. In the meantime, given that the highway program became a reality, some stories have emerged that have changed into blackmail at all ends. The first is that we have extended the motorway programme to state roads, probably also such that we cannot and must not oppose. What I do know is that Koroška, for example, will never have a highway, and it is right that from some of the means from which we finance motorways, state roads are also financed. As an example, I'm speaking. But there were other roads that had nothing to do with this system. There are also various objects that have nothing in common. We had in common stories when some executive companies understood the story that they could use shovels to get money from this fund. The Court of Auditors intervened, which even made it possible for the highway to go. And, of course, local communities and individuals have also started to do so. The same or also political parties who sent faxes to Dars to never allow the construction of the highway were later, when they saw that there was real money, conditioned that the highway must go right through their lands and similar stories. And of course, the program got more expensive and more and more slow. Those who were in the main part of the program in the Koper-Hungarian border or Austrian border with a break to Hungary, we were moving ever further away because everyone wanted to earn something on the highway program. Look, everything that's paid is ultimately, in this system everyone is satisfied, because it's very expensive to pay and everyone has the opportunity to condition, the land is five to ten times more expensive than the market value. The replacement facilities or the payment of the facilities are almost old for a new one. Cultural heritage has prices. With us in Prekmurje archaeology stood for half the largest bridge in the highway system in Slovenia. And all of this has fueled what can be added, we have come so far as to condition what the congregations must receive, what compensation they must receive, what compensations to make a connected congregation or an area with a highway - if you do not pay so much, we will not give our consent. And these are the stories that prompted us to be dissatisfied in the end, each discussing our own section. It is also unusual for us to speak on one side about how to provide money, and then on the occasion of the toll stations, each of our congregations wants to move or liquidate the toll station, withdraw it - pick up everywhere, but not in my congregation. Stories that do not contribute to the accelerated construction of highways. I didn't say all the congregations, mate. And we come up with a story that is, of course, premurski, pomurska, where our colleagues from the Youth Party are collecting signatures, in view of the incompetence of past Members who have been cheered by the emergence of the national highway programme, how we need to collect signatures, because from this end we are unable to "sfurry" the national programme and also the 2003 annual programme, and that signatures should ensure the further construction of the motorway also in our end, against Prekmurje. But the story is interesting in the future. Just the top of the Youth Party sits in the world of the municipality, which has been opposed to the construction of the highway through their area for years, and today the same municipality, where the Summit of the Youth Party in the municipal world, has not agreed on the highway route. This means that our highway construction program is turning into demagogy, dirt, where cheap political points can be overcome. And of course it is a way that creates confusion among people who no longer know what they really can't trust; but no one believes any more. And instead of each working together in their own way, even within local communities, preparing people for the early agreement in procedures that are necessary and which are complicated and long-term, they continue to hamper procedures today to move forward to those basic documents that are facilitating the construction of motorways in certain areas. It seems to me to be a place of dishonesty, in all these parts, but I didn't list all of them. And, of course, if we didn't do something like this or a lot of these things, maybe the construction of highways could run a little faster, maybe even cheaper, probably cheaper, probably much cheaper, because everyone wants to blackmail everyone, even though they should realize that it's the same bag. And the more one gets, the less the other gets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u174	Thank you. Comrade Sušnik, do you still want to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] Branko Janc. He's not here. Mrs. Lydia Majnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I would like to talk about point 1/1, one of the first motorways we planned in Slovenia. This is the Pyuen motorway, or if I explain the Šentilj-Gruškovje road, which connects Austria to Croatia. Gruškovje is one of the three most important border crossing points to the Schengen border, and as we know, Slovenia will be a member of the European Union with effect from 1 May 2004. This border crossing, however, leads to a road that is marked at a distance of 50 kilometers by an uninterrupted line. And it only has breaks on the way out for individual streets or roads within the settlements. I must say that the road was already planned for the construction of individual sections in the previous decade. In 1998, then 1999 and so on. However, there is still only a comparative study which was produced in 1999 and has the title "Research and comparison of the variants produced and the proposal of the most appropriate variants". Despite much work, let me say that one option overwhelms archaeology in its entirety, the other option overwhelms archaeology and water coverage, the third option is considered inappropriate by the transporters. Just 2,000 years ago, not by chance, the bird was born on important road routes. After all, there was also an amber route across the area of the present Ptuj. There was a intersection north-south and east-west. After the 1999 study, the most expensive one is the variant that is most preferred in current overtures. In 1999, it was valued at 20 billion, including a good 4 billion for archeological excavations. And given the fact that archaeologists have warned that the heritage there is so rich that it must remain preserved, it is said that this road should not be there at all. Although we have already solved the problem by moving the intersection, crossing the fast road, and highway, moving it from the neighboring Hajdin municipality down. And with that we solved the biggest problem. That was in our local jurisdiction. But the project is so demanding that we can't really solve it in a partial way. With the great fragmentation of local communities, with all variants of the highway, and thus, of course, the fragmentation of local interests, the interests of transporters, archaeologists and naturalists are also met on this road. After all, it is a drinking water pump that serves almost 100,000 people. It's a millennium of history hidden by our fields. But it is especially and most of all the interest of the local population, whose life is almost impossible on the current roads. If more than 35,000 vehicles roll over the only bird bridge daily, this number is at least as large as in the direction of Gruškvlje and is much larger in the tourist season as it takes place in a narrow column, 24 hours a day. I therefore appeal to Dars to initiate the accelerated implementation of the coordination and all the necessary activities set out in my programme for the development of motorways in 2003 and to actually produce what is planned in the 2003 proposal to produce the project documentation for the Fram-Hajdin section and to begin the development of an idea project for the Hajdin-Gruškvlje section. And finally stop playing a variety of variants that lead only to moving away from the beginning of the building. I am deeply aware of the complexity of this transport node, but it will have to be solved. In addition to all the interests mentioned above, there can be a civil initiative or initiative that can happen quickly, which is now very popular and up to date, which already predicts road closure. If this were to happen to us and that the civil initiative would realize its threats, you can trust me that the column to Zagreb will stand in one direction and to Vienna in the other direction. I think that it is very difficult to afford this and that it will really be necessary to approach the construction of this highway, because it will not be built by an individual municipality with 4,000 inhabitants, but is essential for the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u176	Thank you very much. I'd give the word to my colleague Dorian Marshich, but he's not here. Does a government representative want to answer any more questions, or does he want a representative of Dars? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. I warmly welcome all Members of Parliament and Members. I would answer Mr Jerovšk's question [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u178	Could I have your attention in the hall, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u179	Regarding the costs of an engineer, I can say that in Europe, the average costs of an engineer vary between 3% and 5%. [[...]] Secondly, it must be said that Dars has already launched calls for the provision of engineering services in the past year, i.e. international calls. On this call we have acquired three contractors, so there is not only one contractor in this area, and for each motorway section separately, for those for whom the contract has not been signed in the past, i.e. for all the new sections. As regards quality control, it must be said that it is carried out by the authorised institutions in Slovenia, ZAG, ZRMK, Igmata and so on. And you also have to say that Dars has repeatedly and repeatedly requested repairs, both before opening and after opening highways. Among other things, I would list only some sections, Selo - Vipava, Razdrto - Vipava, where the performer had to correct according to the evaluation of the profession of unquality works. But I'd say the last case he was, I could say the greatest precedent. When opening the Vransko - Trojana motorway section, i.e. this first part, was a good week before opening, 14 days in particular, Dars as an investor demanded the replacement of the wear layer through the relevant institutions, this is called the asphalt layer. At its own cost, the contractor completely rewired or cut first and then relayered the complete asphalt layer of the object or viaducta Ločica. The same was true of the section to the toll station of the Compolje, where the asphalt was cut and newly laid before the toll station of the Compolje. So on Dars and also through an authorized engineer, we regularly and seriously care for the quality of motorways. The question related to the highway section of Krtina-Kompolje is a section where the winding of the highway is concerned. We will further explore whether there can be a problem in the project, or whether there is a real problem with the inequality of the asphalt layer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u180	Thank you. Excuse me, I give the floor to Tonet Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u181	You asked me if I quit before, and I said no, but you didn't hear. I don't think it's necessary to talk much after what Mr. Juban said. Still, I'd like to say three things. The first is that it kind of saddens me that from year to year we get a program based on some methodology where everything is contained, but at the same time you can't understand what is actually going to happen this year. All the sections are listed, all the numbers are listed, you know how much this is going to be, but in fact, to be able to monitor and say, in this program this, this and this, on this and this section, under such and such conditions, and so on. We have warned about this in the past year, but apparently it is the custom of an iron shirt and officials are probably the hardest to say goodbye to. In this light, it is to be commended that the programme is very meticulously drawn up, that it is all written, but in relation to what the Infrastructure Committee has also concluded, that, despite the fact that it has adopted a number of conclusions, the National Assembly has confirmed that the national programme is still not in the balance of the national programme and should therefore point out that this programme is incompatible with the national programme adopted by the National Assembly and with the programme itself. But it's also nothing, and I think it's going to be a magnetogram and a history that we've talked about, but it doesn't matter anyway, because the conclusions of the National Assembly are for the government and for anyone else less important. I'm asking when this national programme will be. At the same time, I would like to provide or answer the question whether there will be more to be done on tolling in the coming year. Because the writings, like "we will continue", "we will do our best" and so on, are not enough to achieve what we really have to. In order to start both for construction and maintenance purposes, and in particular for the repayment of credits, also to draw on the funds to be paid or obtained from the use of motorways. It is not possible, and here Geza Juban has said very nicely, it is not possible to move in some way, to make nice to people, how we do not want to have to build toll stations, of course from the moment that this road is already built, when a standard is made. I am firmly convinced that I know the projections for the following years, as well as the 2003 and 2004 budget and the 2004 development programmes, that this country is not able in 2004, for example, to invest from credits and from its own budget resources and from that few change from tolls, EUR 440 million from this project, in all the other requirements and needs that this budget and this country has. Therefore, the problem of dealing with these already built components and with those who are still coming is, in my opinion, number one. It is therefore to be expected in this direction that those analyses that have been promised two, three years ago and have been requested by the Infrastructure Committee, the National Assembly and, I don't know, by who else ordered everything, then also by them, but by that, except that those who do these analyses have earned from what serious effects and projects for toll collection are not. I also expect that in the near future, but indeed in the near future, there will also be a proposal for a status change of the company, a shareholder company, Dars in 100 per cent state ownership, that this will not be a para-state institution that will operate in an official way. So, we have so much money, so much money can be allocated, it doesn't matter how long it's built, it doesn't matter how long it's going to depreciate, it doesn't matter how much money we get through the management of these basic funds, it doesn't matter how much money we get for this-the same maintenance as I said, for the repayment of credits and for the new construction. Of course, all praises for what has been done now, and I think that the programme has been exactly in the right direction, but in spite of everything until it comes to someone with these newly built roads who will manage and will be in the interest of having a department built optimally and as soon as possible dedicated to the function, in a way that seems to be functioning, as it seems, now that this money, which is budgeted together with the National Assembly, when it approves the loan guarantee, and that little money from the tolls, is made between the year and the year that it comes from. However, I think that we would need an answer, perhaps I have listened to it, to the question of when will the national programme rebalancing come into the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u182	Thank you very much. This was a general debate which I conclude with this last panellist. All we want is an answer from the government. [[A voice from behind.]] There'll be an opportunity, Comrade Sok. First, I would like to give the Minister the floor to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u183	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, it might be that what colleague Christmas didn't answer earlier because he answered part of the questions. On the issue of tolling and so on, I think we have talked a lot at the previous point, so I don't know if it makes sense to stress it again. However, Mrs Majnikovi would of course have attached this problem, especially to the node of Ptuj. For Ptuj, there's real evidence that one of the biggest stoppers on this bridge across the Drava River, where, I think, is actually about 35,000 vehicles. This is why we have already agreed with the programme this year with the local communities to resolve this problem in the avian hub. It is true that there in the Hajdine area are all those problems that you listed and that we are also in the programme, in the 2002 work plan, also under the heading - Preparation of documentation and so on, even then in the National Assembly we also included the preparation of documentation for the section from Ptuj to Gruškov or the Croatian border, given that this section is not an integral part of the national programme. These specific activities, the preparation in this section, are also under way. Mr Anderlič drew attention to some things that were not necessary, such as, perhaps only on the last question, that we have prepared macroeconomic studies in these days on the impact of the construction of individual stages and other studies, other bases. Thus, we can say with certainty that government material will be prepared in the late spring of the following year and that this material will also come into discussion and consideration and admission to the National Assembly in the late spring. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u184	Thank you. I would now like to go to the debate on the amendments. The Infrastructure Committee has made two amendments, one to the preamble to Chapter I, to points 1.3.6 and 1.3.8. I'm putting these two amendments to the debate. Anybody want a word? Preamble first. Who wants to discuss the preamble?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u185	Just one question, Mr. Vice President. We have tabled an amendment to Chapter 1.3.6 and Chapter 1.3.10), which you have not mentioned at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u186	Well, if I said I was in the preamble now, then I'd ask if anyone wanted to discuss the preamble on their own. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Since this is an amendment to the preamble, I would like to say a few words about the decree as a whole. I am very pleased that this year, for the first time in a period of time, we are considering this decree within a legal deadline, which is a year before construction begins. In previous years, we have always adopted this decree somewhere in almost the second half of the year. In fact, I would agree with what my colleague Anderlič said that the decree was written in contravention of the national programme for the construction of motorways and would support it if its party were not part of this government, which in fact is responsible for the fact that it was, I don't know, but then, in 1994, an unrealistic national programme was adopted in Parliament. It is now up to you to change this unrealistic national programme and thus create a legal basis so that the Ministry will not change and prioritize the passage of the law only in its opinion. It is now happening that the Ministry, by its own discretion, sets priorities. This, ladies and gentlemen, began when Minister Gantar replaced the appointed time of Minister Presecnik. That's when you started changing construction priorities. What's the point of all this? The point is, of course, that this country does not have sufficient financial resources. We just don't have enough funding. Here I would also like to draw attention to the promise made twice by the current minister, the former Minister of Finance, who, both in the 2001 budget and in the 2002 budget, assured here in Parliament that we will build part of the Slovenian motorway network on the basis of concessional construction. We are now at the end of 2002, but despite the record in your coalition contract there is nothing on this law on concession building. In fact, on this basis, the government did not do what it was supposed to do. Of course, I am among those citizens who no longer believe that the government is about quickly building roads. I am convinced that this is no longer a priority, that priority is that this construction operating years are maximumly employed, but that economic and social damage is, of course, occurring, and this is not really the case. We've been a little critical here today. Things will go the same way. One year from now, we're going to be a little bit more critical of the fact that with this kind of highway building, it's said, 20 kilometers a year, there's going to be about 20 years of work for the current construction profession that's dealing with it, and building some sections very badly -- it's true, my colleague Jerovšek is right to point out this -- they're sitting on new sections of the road, they're sittings that nobody can fix, and that's how this story goes on. [[...]] Minister Preseknik promised yesterday on the Infrastructure Committee that in the summer time this national programme balance would come to Parliament. Of course, Minister, at least we will keep your promise in the opposition. However, we are aware that if there is no money, there is no way to make a substantial difference, even though you gentlemen from LDS may have resisted the Young Party, it seems that the Youth Party is now to blame for not building the roads as planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u188	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. This does not appear in the preamble, but you also used this debate. Anyone else want to discuss the preamble? We are moving on to the debate on point 1.3 and the amendment of the Committee to point 1.3. Anybody want a word? We have the first chapter and the amendments to this, point by point. In particular point 1.3? [[Nobody.]] To point 1.3.6 we have two amendments, one committee, one Social Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would not repeat what has already been said about this amendment. However, since I asked me, at the presentation for the Minister, about this particular toll station, what its position is, as with all the other questions, I answered quite quickly that this is a matter that needs to be addressed as a result of the pressures of the local community and the desire of the local community to deal with this problem. Since this has not yet been discussed, I must explicitly say here, Mr Minister, that the people who have asked our parliamentary group to table this amendment have very specifically warned me that in the event of the construction of this toll station, what is written in the explanation of the amendment is that there is no parallel road to prevent this from happening with all possible means: road closures, civil disobedience, I do not know with what else, you can check with them. Therefore, I warn you to accept this amendment to avoid what I have just said. I don't think it's Darsa's intention and the Ministry of Transport to pile up on your head in the face of all the problems you already have. That is why I am giving you a good warning on this matter, and I ask you to take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u190	Thank you, Comrade Zampernik. Anyone else on point 1.3.6? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this point. Furthermore, the debate on point 1.3.8. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on this item and on the amendment to point 1.3.10) of the Socialist Party's Group. No one wants to debate because more or less of this has been said. Thank you very much. I hereby conclude the debate and end the 14th item of the agenda. We will proceed with the vote. Just a moment before the colleague takes over the holding of the follow-up session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving on to the vote of the assembly on the proposals for decisions. I would like to ask your attention so that there are no signs that we do not know what we are voting on. First of all, we continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Penal Code of the Republic of Slovenia, the second reading, is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting! There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 38 to 20. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 20.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, and therefore the legislative procedure on the proposal for a code has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break eight. PERIOD OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE JAMES AND SUPPLEMENTAL COMPOSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA, reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. The legislature or the government did not warn that the adopted amendments made the law inconsistent. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting! There are 64 of us present. He voted 62 against no one. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break nine. Period of the day - Third defense proposal of the law on violations. As no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, no third reading of the amendments could be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. He warned that because of the amendments adopted, the law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting! There are 65 of us in attendance. The vote was 48 to 14. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to break 10. Period of the day - Third defense of the proposal for a law restricting the consumption of alcohol. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, namely the amendment of the Government to Article 15. We're voting. We're here for 63. There's 51 votes against 3. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. That's how we ended the vote on the amendments. The representative of the Government would like to give a warning on the harmonisation of the law. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Respectable. The Government found that due to the amendments adopted, the individual provisions of the proposal were not harmonised. That's why she prepared the harmonisation amendments. I'm sorry. It's the rule of law. [[...]] [[Aborted.]] The amendments adopted, the previous amendments as well as the 15th amendments, have led to a number of inconsistencies. [[...]] The Rules of Procedure order or allow the Government to prepare the harmonisation amendments, as we have prepared and distributed to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u193	Thank you very much. The legal representative also shares the opinion. I give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Madam President. As a representative of the government [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u195	I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u196	warnings, we are obliged to point out, in accordance with Article 140, paragraph 5, that there has been a lack of consistency. [[...]] Here are the amendments we have now prepared, which we have already agreed on professionally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Uncoherence over the adoption of the amendments has also been confirmed by a representative of the Legal and Legislative Service. To this end, we are now receiving at the turn of the Government of Slovenia's harmonisation amendment to the proposal for a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption, in third reading. As we have adopted the amendment of the Government to Article 15, these amendments harmonise, as a result of this adopted amendment, the provisions which have become inconsistent as a result of this adoption. I'll wait a few minutes for you to look at these amendments and study them. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u198	I must say that, even on behalf of the group, I argue that it is not possible to decide on these amendments at this time because we have them on the table. In my view, we have adopted fewer amendments than is now proposed for harmonisation amendments, so on several articles, so I suggest you stop this point and move on with another. If we find out that the matter is consistent, then it's okay, otherwise we'll postpone it to one of the future meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u199	Thank you very much. Please don't get upset over unnecessary things. I interrupt this agenda item at this stage, that we are familiar with the harmonisation amendments, it is necessary to give the parliamentary groups an opportunity to look at the harmonisation amendments before they are decided. That's why I'm breaking up this agenda item, point 10. If I get an explanation from the parliamentary groups that they have become acquainted with these harmonisation amendments, we will also move on to deciding on them. We're moving on to break 11. PERIOD OF THE DAY - WITH FIRST DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE SUPPLEMENTING OF THE ORGANISATION AND FINANCING OF TRAINING AND EDUCATION LAW. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the first reading, is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote, Mr Anderlich, please, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u200	I will not support the proposal for a decision, and the Liberal Democracy Group cannot support it, as a law on the amendments and additions to the law on the financing of education and education after long coordination has been adopted at its previous meeting, and as this law has direct and major implications for the 2003 and 2004 budget and the time for the amendments to the 2003 and 2004 budget has already expired and cannot be included in the budget, but there are major material consequences, of course this law cannot be supported at this time and is therefore accompanied by a further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will support the proposal for a conclusion that the law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education is an appropriate basis for the procedure to continue. I am also convinced that I will be supported by colleagues from the Slovenian People's Party's Group in this decision. As it is known, this addition to the law is intended to solve the problem of the transport costs of children who live or go to school in more distant places, more than 10 kilometers away. The basic aim of the law is to provide all schoolchildren with the same starting point for obtaining the desired education. Today, there was a very substantive debate on this agenda item. I am sure that we Members have arguments that we should make a responsible decision and support the process forward. Mr Tanko said publicly that he was prepared to follow some proposals under the procedure, possibly to supplement the law, there are only two articles. But the question is whether the current generation of children, before that was a talk about alcohol, but now it's about children, the question is which topic is more important. They're both important, but this one's important. It's about generations here and now. It's every generation. Each one is extraordinary. The National Assembly is ahead of the responsible task of finding ways for no generation to be deprived. If in Slovenia there are generations of young people who are deprived, they are violated by human rights. Under the procedure, the majority of the national assembly will be able to amend certain provisions of its fellow Members. There are procedures for modifying the budget in force for 2003 very little. The key to this law would then be the 2004 budget. Here we have every opportunity open to allow the process to continue today. This will enable and we can say that this has also taken an important step to reduce regional differences in Slovenia. It is not the fault of those who live in such geographical conditions that they are forced to drive days and days into high school. I will support the proposal that the law is a suitable basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr Pukšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u204	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will support such a proposal to amend the law. The fact is, it is clear enough with the amendment of one article. The fact is that, according to so many words, more needs to be done for coherent regional development, in order to take care of the possibility of development in these areas, the first step in educating young people and giving young people the opportunity in these areas. The fact is that the bus ticket today is far too expensive and the price of the bus ticket is far too high. It's cca. Some or some mothers deduct between 40% and 50% of their personal income. I believe, even now, in this view, that the Slovenian Development Society will receive, as it were, 1.4 billion funds that will not have to be paid to managers, and the government can redirect this to finance these transports of children to school. Even if certain matters are reversed in other entities such as the Triglav Insurance Company and so on, the first step in speaking about coherent regional development will finally be at least minimally done, and I will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Gaber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u206	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen! We are talking about the real problem, including the real problem of inequality in Slovenia, as discussed by Comrade Podobnik. The question that is before us and possibly makes it possible to disagree, so it does not concern the matter alone, it does not concern the content. The real issue before us is the way in which this segment of inequality and obstacles facing a certain part of the population can be gradually reduced so that it can become more equal with other schools. I think that we are in such a phase, both the adoption of the budget and some other acts, and that, at the same time, there is a fact that this issue can be settled with the rule of law, as the Ministry of Education is already regulating, so that it would be wise here to decide to start the rule, if possible, with year three, and certainly with year four to solve this problem. This is a rational possible approach and, of course, I will take such an approach. That's not why we need to change the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u207	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. The proposed law is also a partial step towards eliminating differences, balancing the conditions of education between rural and urban areas, regulating that in fact the material situation of the family is not one that decides whether a child from a remote and poor family can go to school at all, and I think that the current situation in this area is deepening, radically deepening and increasing these differences between centres and rural areas, even though we all find that it is clearly a lower standard in rural areas, that it is lower wages in rural areas, that rural jobs disappear, that the daily line of pressures and migration to the centres and also to social housing in the centres. Nevertheless, all these differences are supported and tolerated, and we also tolerate the secondary level of rural areas. I don't think it's necessary to keep the countryside second-class. As far as matters are concerned, either by a decision or by a regulation or by law, I think it is much stronger, much more serious, that this matter is regulated by law. No matter how we regulate this, this has financial implications for the state budget. Regardless of the way in which it is regulated, this problem has implications for the state budget. If we put this in the law, it's an obligation. If this is a rule or a decision, it can move, correct, correct and so on. This is said to be a rule far less binding than the law. Therefore, I also propose that this matter concerning our greatest wealth be dealt with by law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, explanation of vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. I will certainly support the proposal for a decision or a law. The possibility remains to be shaped into such content in the second reading, which is still bearable for the existing two-year budget forecast, which is almost completed. Why would I support him? Absurdness is increasingly present, the attitude we have toward individual generations. When it comes to legislative changes, let it be the law on war violence when it brings new beneficiaries every time, it is not a problem of billions, one billion, two. When the question of a generation that has given its time in proportion is not a problem. There's no problem with the transfers to the STD. It's not a problem of 10, 100 billion. When we talk about a generation that is still searching for its space under the sun, which tomorrow will be the generation that will allow society as such to survive, the problem is to find some reallocation or some minimum amount of resources within the budgetary structure for its benefit. That's insufferable. We're gonna have to be aware of that. Who's the one who doesn't have a chance to influence today with an argument about what belongs to him? They're young. This generation, which is now in school, doesn't care how this generation and this family survives these transportation costs out there from the Los Valley to Ljubljana. And I don't know why we shouldn't find it. It could be with a rule book. I am just convinced that it is far wiser that the law in the second reading is formed in such a content, which will be bearable for the two-year budget period. That's why I'm sure I'll back the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Explanation of vote in order of order. First Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Pece and Mr Kavtičnik. Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u212	Thank you very much. I am sorry that we have just heard that the future government has just presented itself here among us with such a negative view on such, Slovenian development, an important issue, which is also very symptomatic at the symbolic level. Indeed, it is clear from such a rejection that in the future, when the new government is deprived, more deprived, more remote, despite the fine talk of regional development, the Minister for Regional Development and so on. The argument that there is no money for this particular need is null and void is unacceptable. But you can make a deal and give managers billions and billions. That's always possible. There's always money for that. You are not interested in the fact that many young people from remote places who may be at least as capable or perhaps have been crippled by life so much that they are able to do more in life for the national corps than a soft and privileged child. There's no money for that. You're sending a great message. Tomorrow you will tell him what messages you are sending to the Slovenians at a time when they are supposed to count and believe that something will change in Slovenian politics. Worse still, the policy of centralisation will deepen further. Such an attitude is unacceptable. But it is not acceptable that there is nothing to be done about the law. These transitional provisions can also provide for the start of the implementation of this policy. However, if we do not accept at the symbolic level that we are willing to do something about greater equality and a more equal starting point for the young generation, this is totally unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u214	We will, of course, support the law in the Slovenian National Party. We feel it's our duty to do this. We estimate that the State Assembly, with a large majority, should adopt the law for two reasons in particular. The first, which Mr Brenčič said in his explanation, is in creating age differences that this national assembly, or this Slovenian policy, will find a hearing for one age group, but for another age group, which I think is even more important and even more important for the progress of our country, is not to be heard. On the other hand, it seems to me that the rejection of this proposal would only lead to a negative gap in the context of our country's harmonious development. We will support the law in the framework of the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u216	Thank you very much. I spoke earlier on behalf of the Group of Members, now speaking on my behalf. The aim of the candidates is good. I am sure that there is no Member or Member who does not wish our children well. Of course, the question is how to help or how to provide funds. The problem is multi-layered. We will have to cut down here or if we want to solve this problem, we will have to go to different ministries, because there is a budget ahead of us, and we know that in such a way that we will devote 4 billion and a half dollars to the Ministry of Education and Sport, there is no solution. That is why, and I myself have proposed that we solve the problem in such a way as to help or seek a solution in a possible decision, not in law. However, I will support the marriage, because I believe that it is possible to find a possible solution in the second reading and then also in the third reading. It is still possible that we will not support this law in the second or third reading if there is no real solution. I'll back the law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u217	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please. Then Mr. Jakič and then Mr. Bajuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u218	Thank you very much. I believe that most of us Members coming from the countryside who know the size of this problem will be supported by this law. After all, it is the first treatment and it is possible to change it in some way. Of course, the difference is between the rulebook and the law. The rules are the rules, but the law is the law. Mr Gaber probably knows that too, and I don't know why he suggested that we accept this in order to deal with the rule of law. But there's something else I'd like to point out. Tomorrow, when we accept the 2003 budget rebalancing, you will be able to see that the 2003 rebalancing represents a significant reduction in funding, namely the subsidisation of bus and coach services. This means that, even in this way, as far as the countryside is concerned, we are working very unevenly, because the rural area is already affected in this sense and if we are going to reduce the number of bus lines, then not only do these children have to pay a lot, but they will not have anything to drive to the centres where they are in high schools. Unfortunately, it's just that not all children of, I don't know, LDS mayors can be transported by cars, official cars, and so on to schools. For the most part, parents have to pay for this, and this cost is very high, so I expect most Members to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Mr. Jakich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u220	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Look, I must say that I am always most pleased when the increase in funding for younger generations is being talked about by those who always vote to correct the injustices back and share billions and billions of Slovenian tolars. Young people would, of course, need this. As an Ljubljanan, I have to say that I have little moral cat, given that most of those in Ljubljana are truly happy and do not need to go ten kilometres or more to school from the place of permanent residence. But of course, the bill, as proposed by the signatories, is, of course, demagogue. He's talking about 50% of the subsidy, but he's not talking about the selectivity of it. Why, sir, I'm not going to name them, but we or Roman Jakič are being subsidized by someone who has a monthly ticket for his son, who has a gross SIT 800,000. And here's the demagic. If the applicant felt that something needed to be done, then he would point out to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that, in fact, the 21st indent of the seventh paragraph, which was talking about means to subsidise transport and nutrition for pupils, apprentices and students and higher education students who should be provided from the State budget, so that they are not provided in an appropriate manner. It is not, however, that the proposal for a new eighth paragraph, which speaks, is that, despite the fact that we already have a starting point for selective subsidisation, they propose 50% on average, and I do not agree with this. Of course, today I will listen very carefully to those who speak of the generation [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] And those who will press the billion-dollar button tomorrow for the injustices to come back. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Madam President. Although I live alone in Ljubljana, I represent and have been elected in the Slovenian countryside, and now I have three children in front of me, who came to my office and explained the problem to me. The problem is that two children are already driving, far away, no matter how far away, 27,000 tolars a month for each. This lady worked for 70,000 tolars and told me they couldn't send a third. On behalf of that third, I will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. However, I cannot explain to this lady that I have put my responsibility on one of the rules of procedure, which perhaps, I do not know what Mr candidate for Minister of Education has promised that this might be resolved in another way. Our rulebook, our responsibility is to enact laws. This law is essential to ensure equal opportunities in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Kacin, please, then Mr. Visjak and then Dr. Bernick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I just can't support this marriage. For a long time, I have weighed what to do, for what was heard today is beneficial to the ears and sounds kind of logical. But I remembered that we have representatives of the Ministry of Transport right here, and Darsa, and someone else. How badly we all agree on a billion extra money to "flash" the biggest embarrassment we have on local roads. And we find that billion is too much and we fail to fight it as an amendment to the entire national council. Here, however, we can easily talk very emotionally about 4 billion and a half because Mr Bajuk has received a visit from the mothers of three children who have complained about the costs he has. The coming Minister of Education has clearly said that the problem can be solved by a rule. The rule is under the authority of the government. Two more readings of the National Assembly with 90 Members are not necessary, as we are doing here today. That's why I think we need to leave the path of rationality. And finally, when you ask yourself, after all, whether to speak or not to attack him to demagogy, I would like to remind you that we have responded very positively to all the collective actions, to the pediatric clinic, to send bears, to collect money, and that went somewhere else, and the purpose was not achieved. So it seems to me that the only path that leads to success is the decision of the competent ones to do so, paid for it. This is the government and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport to find, within their powers, within the responsibility of the government and the rule of law, a solution that will be selective. That's why I can't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u226	Thank you so much for saying that. The budget is as big as we can get revenue. But the thing with us and the government is to decide on the priorities of how we're going to spend our money. And I understand that it is not a priority for a number of Ljubljanans to finance the transport of children from faraway places to school and thus equalise access to education. We have written in the budget memos that we are and will be a knowledge-based society. Of course, the knowledge is based on the society of centers, the periphery, and the province should be "buttal". I come from places like this myself, and I know how hard it is for some parents to pay for their education. Look, this marriage is a cry for help. Call for help. And today, with a moral gesture, we can support this call for help, and we can also allow the future minister to address this issue with a rule if he sees it necessary to arrange other social remedies or other selective mechanisms. That's what we support. However, for God's sake, this can be a moral gesture here today, a support for this idea, which can also experience different outcomes or other solutions that are more just. That's why I think and will support myself for the idea and for this so-called call for help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick, please, then Mr. Kebrich and then Mr. -- won't you? Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u228	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I wanted to, and I raised my hand in time, replicate my colleague. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u229	Just an explanation of the voice, Mr. Kebrich!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u230	For I do not agree with such declarations that we separate citizens more or less deserving here in the National Assembly. This is my debate at this point. If someone does, the older ones understand the situation as it is. We grew up on various occasions and know what education means today when we enter or join Europe. However, I cannot agree that citizens in the National Assembly are different and that we assess who is more or less deserving of what. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, I'm sorry. Someone's still up there to explain their voice, but I haven't seen it. Then Mr. Kelemina. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u232	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! I will vote in favour of this bill, especially for this reason, because it is necessary to allow the entire young generation a level playing field for studies; and also because it is probably a priority for the state to invest in knowledge first, because, above all, investing in knowledge can make the biggest shift to raising general prosperity in the country. If anything is wrong with this, with the methodology of what is actually the most equitable way of subsidising or selective approach and so forth, we still have the possibility of supplementing the law in the second and third readings throughout the legal procedure. That is why there are any possibilities for complementing the tsetsebin, which certainly, as has been established, has a positive nature and needs to make this move, today and here. And the future Minister of Education will also have a greater opportunity to draw up an appropriate rule if this text is also recorded in the marriage text. If not, we will always be able to deal with versions and explanations as to whether or not the Regulation can be put in place. Therefore, I think it is high time that we listen to this proposal, no matter what group it comes from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u233	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, no. Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u234	Thank you very much. I would like to say that I will vote in favour of the proposal. I think that we can only fight differences and dispersion in our society through education and employment. We need to make education available to young people in every way, but it is precisely because of the lack of funding that many children do not have. Transport to a rural school to the city is a huge cost for parents, and I therefore believe that this needs to be facilitated. I'm a driver myself all the time, and I know what that means. The only difference is that now that I am in the service in the National Assembly, I get paid transportation in addition to my salary; but when I was in school, it was the cost of my parents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Mogue, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u236	Thank you very much. I think the law is extremely bad and extremely selective. The creation of that point of the Law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which discusses grants relating to transport and the nutrition of pupils. The law that's been introduced is just about transporting students, to a large extent. So I think that if this problem is solved, we should look at all the parameters that affect the social students. In the National Assembly we have spoken many times and there have been attempts - all students free lunch. We're all fighting! But then, when it came to realisation and, to whom, according to the possibilities and in view of the fair distribution of burdens in this society, such ideas have always come to an end. Even with all the references, now that we have considered the budget of the current mandate, the issue of reimbursement of these costs was on the programme. It's been a long time. It seems to me that this is one of the topics that the government, which has just adopted the budget, should be preparing work for us to answer now on this issue. My personal opinion is that this law is not a law for which the parent body is only a committee for culture, education, science and sport, but it will be necessary, according to the rules of procedure, because it is likely to survive this "first treatment" - under the terms of the terms - it will come to the committee, and it must also be allocated - under the terms of "Puck's Committee", that it will also define and tell how many options we have regarding the resources we have can be realized by this law. It seems to me that a difficult debate will continue on both committees together in this direction. The wishes of all of us are to help, I think there is no way in which we would not, and to bring this law into line with the options that this country is giving at a given time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u238	Thank you very much. I'll be very brief. Very many words were said: I will support the law myself. I simply do not understand how this Parliament has not met this problem before. Ten generations and more children in Slovenia alone went through this way and under such unequal conditions as transport to school. We should think about this, not how we should avoid this problem now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u239	Thank you very much. We have heard explanations of vote and can now proceed to the vote. Procedural proposal. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u240	Before making a decision, I would like to take a 15-minute recess on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u241	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I shall adjourn the meeting for 15 minutes before the decision. We'll continue at 7:46. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u242	Dear Members, honourable Members, we continue to consider the adjourned 11th item of the agenda. Before deciding on the proposal for a decision that the proposal for a law supplementing the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, the first hearing, suitable for further consideration, the LDS Club asked for a break from decision-making, to consult before decision-making. I ask the representative of the Group of Members if he wishes to explain. Here you go, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u243	After a consultation in the parliamentary group and with all the leaders of the coalition groups, we have agreed that we cannot support the law as proposed, and we do not see that this is the right way to address the problems that undoubtedly exist in paying for transport to schools. Therefore, the coalition, which began in 2003 and beyond, will develop a system that will allow and effectively ensure compensation for transport to those who are the most remote and socially weak and will complement or supplement the need for it. We believe that the balance sheet and the percentage to be determined and calculated for the entire population are neither fair nor feasible for this country. Therefore, we believe that the coalition is strong enough, capable enough to see these differences and these needs and to apply them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u244	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision as presented. We're voting. There are 70 of us here. 34 votes against 35. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. Therefore, the legislative procedure on the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a decree on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, please? We will first vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to Article 1. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. It's 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to the title of Article 2. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 52 votes against one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the first amendment of Member Branko Janca to Article 2. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first amendment of Member Branko Janca to Article 2 has been adopted. We vote on the Committee's first amendment to Article 2. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the first amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, 57 votes against 4. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of the Committee to Article 2, with the remark that if adopted, amendments under order numbers 5, 6, 7 and 8 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 59 votes against one. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the amendment has been adopted; the amendments under 5, 6, 7 and 8 have become irrelevant. We are voting on the third amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 53 votes against one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment of Member Branko Janca to Article 2, with the remark that, as far as this amendment is adopted, the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 3 will become irrelevant. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the third amendment of Mr Janc to Article 2, which is linked to the first amendment of the same proposal to Article 4. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 55 votes against none. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendments to Article 3, namely only one more, on the amendment of Mr Janc to Article 3. The amendment of the SLS Group has become irrelevant. We're voting! There are 64 of us present. 54 votes against no one. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of Mr Janc to Article 4. We're voting! There are 60 of us in attendance. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment to Article 5 of the same proposal. We're voting! There are 60 of us in attendance. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the same proposal to Article 5. We're voting! There are 60 of us in attendance. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the last amendment, namely the amendment of the Committee to the cartographic work. We're voting! There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia as a whole. We're voting! There's 63 of us in attendance. 58 votes against no one. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 13th item of the agenda - the work programme of the company for motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, d.d. for 2002. We are moving on to a decision on the following motion for a decree: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia gives consent to the programme of work of the Company for Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, d.d. for 2002 of 26.7.2002 and 28.11.2002." We're voting! There are 64 of us present. 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a decree on the annual development plan and maintenance of motorways for 2003. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, first of all to vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to the preamble to the decree. We're voting! There are 66 of us in attendance. 62 votes against 1. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the Board to point 1.3. We're voting! There are 66 of us in attendance. 64 votes against no one. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There are two amendments to subsection 1.3.6. We will first vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. We're voting! There are 60 of us in attendance. 54 votes to 1 [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We are now voting on the amendment of the SDS Group to sub-chapter 1.3.6. We're voting! There are 62 of us here. 23 votes against 37. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also have two amendments at point 1.3.8. We will first vote on the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment of the Committee to sub-chapter 1.3.8 has been adopted. The amendment of the LDS Group is tabled in subsection 1.8.10. as the amendment to Chapter 1.3.6. has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003 as a whole. We're voting. There are 64 of us present, in favour of 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted and thus I conclude this agenda item and move on to 15. At the end of the day, it's an evocative bill on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars D. D., for borrowing credit from the European Investment Bank for the Slovenian Autoroads Project, urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the government representative for further explanation of the bill, Mr Jakob Presečnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u245	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! This is a EUR 120 million loan to the European Investment Bank, the purpose of this loan is to build four motorway sections, namely Beach - Korenitska, Kronovo - Smlednik, Šentvid - Koseze and Smlednik - Krška vas. The basis for obtaining this credit from the European Investment Bank is the framework agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and that bank, which was ratified by the National Assembly in March 1999. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u246	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Committee Chairman Branko Janc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u247	At its 11th emergency meeting on 17.12., the Infrastructure Committee held a second reading of the proposal for a law on the consent of the Republic of Slovenia, Dars d.d. to rent credit at the European Investment Bank for the project of Slovenian motorways. The proposed bill was given a written opinion by the Law-Legal Service, which found that the proposed law was designed in the same way as similar laws with the same substance. At the meeting, the Committee received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the legislative and legal service. The government considers that the text of Article 1 of the draft law should remain unchanged as the amount in the credit agreement is fixed in euro and also the drawing-up and repayment of credit under the concluded contract will take place in euro. Under the Foreign Exchange Act, the use of foreign currency and other international criteria of value as a basis in contracts between residents is permitted, with the currency of completion always being tolerable. The Committee, however, adopted the amendment to Article 2 in relation to the notice of the Legal and Legislative Service and further proposes that the National Assembly adopt the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Ivan Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Today I'm only adverting about Dars. But it already is. Therefore, the SLS Group will support the lending of credit or the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to Darsu for the loans leased to the European Investment Bank. We can conclude as follows that the funds for repayment of principals are provided from collected tolls. We've talked about this a lot in the preceding paragraphs. And also the financial consequences of this law would affect the budget of the Republic of Slovenia only if the guarantee under the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the credit mentioned, of course in that it could no longer be repaid by Dars. If we have already adopted a national highway construction programme, then financial resources should also be taken care of. We have already seen the earmarked funds in the budget are always stricken, as well as part of the money that is collected as tolls, so it is necessary to support and give consent to the guarantee, as the guarantee can be returned from the collected tolls and the earmarked tolls for motorways. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u250	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Bogomir Zamernik. Here you go. [[You don't want to]] . Thank you very much. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the amended proposal of the law. On the basis of Article 140, I ask the legislature and the government if the law on the grounds of the amendments adopted is inconsistent. [[No, no, ……]] And that's why we're going to make a decision about the law. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. The vote was 48 against 2. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. Agenda item - DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF A SUPPORT LEGISLATION LEVEL REFINANCED FOR REFINANCING THE OBLIGATION OF ELECTRICITY UNDERTAKINGS, Urgent Procedure. With regard to this point, I note that the draft law has not been examined by the mother labour body and therefore there are no business conditions for consideration at the meeting of the assembly. In relation to this point, this is the 16th item of the agenda, I note that the domestic working body of the law has not been examined and therefore there are no business conditions for hearing at the meeting of the assembly. On the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the draft law be postponed to the next regular meeting of the assembly. There is no discussion on that proposal, but representatives of parliamentary groups can present their views within 3 minutes. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to debate, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting! There are 59 of us in attendance. It's 52 votes against 2. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 17. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on extradition. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. There are no government representatives. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting! There's 63 of us in attendance. It's 55 votes against 2. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 18. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the ratification of the Treaty between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina on the cross-border enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. It was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Nobody wants a word. No amendments were adopted by the mother labour body in the second reading, and there is therefore no debate on articles and amendments. We are moving on to the third reading, that is to decide on the bill. We're voting! There are 59 of us in attendance. It's 51 votes to 1. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm closing this agenda item. We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification and Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on the lifting of visas. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Nobody wants a word. Since there were no amendments, there was no discussion of articles, no amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, this is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting! There are 62 of us here. It's 55 votes to 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 20. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Trade and Economic Cooperation. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was discussed by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Nobody wants a word. Since no amendments have been adopted, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting! There are 65 of us in attendance. 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a bill on the ratification of the International Convention on the Suppression of Terrorist Bombings. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy as the working body of the mother. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a second reading of the amended bill. Since no amendments have been tabled, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. We're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting! One more time. We're voting! There are 62 of us here. 58 votes against 1. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - DEFINITIVELY PROPOSAL OF THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE GOVERNMENT OF ISRAELS ON INTERMUNITY ASSISTANCE IN CUSTOMS MATTERS. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. It was treated by the Committee on Foreign Policy as a parent working body. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no amendments have been adopted, there is no debate on articles and amendments. That is why we are moving on to the third reading, which is the decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 55 votes against one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. Agenda item - DETAILED PROPOSAL OF A THIRD SUPPLEMENT OF THE AMENDED AND SUPPLEMENTED PROGRAMME OF RENEWAL OF STATE FOR 2002 AND 2003. The draft act was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the government want to further explain the proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The programme was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body and submitted a proposal for a decision to the assembly. Does the chairman of the committee, Cyril Pucko, want to present the report? [[Not at all.]] Under this item, parliamentary groups have notified the following time for discussion: LDS 5 minutes, SDS 30 minutes, United List 5 minutes, SLS 15 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes, SNS 5 minutes and government 5 minutes. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Sponik doesn't want to. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u251	Thank you so much for saying that. At this point in the agenda, the parliamentary group applied mainly for one interesting paradox in this sales programme, on the one hand a whole set of some photocopying machines, cliots and similar old matters, which we sell at a ridiculous value, and on the other hand in the same indent - or, for example, the embassy in Washington in the amount of the most incomparable values, depending on everything else. In short, the Social Democratic Party has already sought to obtain from government representatives, a service representative of the Joint Services, somehow accompanying documents of such a sales programme, which are defined in the Public Finance Act and form a whole set of data on the reasons, objectives of sales, method of sale and so on. I think it is almost unsavoury and pointless for this Parliament to burden itself with the sale of old photocopying machines, as well as old cliots, and, on the other hand, the substantive attention in the sale of the embassy in Washington is essentially too weak. We therefore believe that in these sales we should focus more seriously on those essential things and, of course, not so much on nonessential things. And we're all comparing this together, and then we're giving the same attention to everyone, both the embassy and the photocopying machines. I think that we - and we have - got to the tables also in line with the discussion on the Finance Committee of the supplementary government material, where it somehow explains the sale of the premises of the Embassy of the Republic of Slovenia in Washington. However, in my opinion, this document merely explains what we somehow wanted to hear on the Committee on Finance. However, I think that methodologically this document is too weak for a person to have an argument based on it on the appropriateness or inadequacy of selling such spaces to the dimension of these values. In short, I would also expect a government representative to explain or argue the sale of this property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Would any other parliamentary group like to present their views? On behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Jelko Kacin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u253	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Our Group supports the disposal of this property, and I would therefore like to take this opportunity to continue where my speaker has finished. Following a successful succession agreement, the Republic of Slovenia took over the former SFRJ Embassy in Washington, D.C., which was built in 1960 and is in a completely unusable state. The facility needs renovations. Asbestos was also implanted largely in the basement area, so that it is not possible to move into it quickly. The existing facility doesn't work: it doesn't do heating, it doesn't do air conditioning. In short, working conditions are unbearable. Therefore, it is the only rational way to resell this facility and to invest the acquired purchase in the renovation and training of the facility, which is now the property of the Republic of Slovenia. I agree that it would be possible to write more about this, but I took the opportunity to look twice at this facility this year to see whether things are progressing, so I take this opportunity to recommend to all my colleagues and colleagues that we support this sale. I would like to see as many of these bold decisions as possible to resold and manage with it in a rational manner what goes beyond the present needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u254	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Bozič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u255	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, we have received a third supplement to the revised and complementary programme of divestment of state assets for 2002 and 2003. I have to say, we understand him very well. For the 55th page of the Report is a detailed complement to the 2002 and 2003 revised and updated programme for the divestment of state assets. In particular means of transport, equipment and, in particular, land and construction facilities. What we had concerns about the sale of land and facilities is explained on the 60th page - service of the common services of the Republic of Slovenia selling the level of part of the roof, terrace, Langus 4 in Ljubljana and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - business space in America. Today, we have also received an explanation from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the sale of the building in America. We believe that this explanation is in place and true. There's something I'd like to say. In fact, it is very difficult to satisfy Slovenians: when there is no report, we are bad when there is a report, and the car must not be written next to the house. So let's agree on what we want to have in the National Assembly as a report, what the government can sell, and if this report is for us at least, it's acceptable to us, the law, then we confirm it, and we don't want to raise the dust and think about what's just cheating on this world. We don't think so in our client.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u256	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I can close the debate. We will therefore move on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. I invite Members and Members to the Chamber because we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads: "The third amendment of the amended and updated programme for the disposal of state assets for 2002 and 2003 shall be accepted." We're voting! There are 55 of us present. The vote was 38 to 14. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. PERIOD OF THE DAY - CERTIFICATE OF THE OFFICIAL VERIFICATION TEXTS. Officially revised texts were prepared by the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly and confirmed by the assembly without discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. The official text of the law on detective activity shall be confirmed. We're voting! There are 55 of us present. It's 42 votes against 9. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The officially consolidated text of the law on the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia is confirmed." We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Acknowledgment of the officially consolidated text of the Judicial Procedure Act." We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 39 votes against 3. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the officially refined text has been confirmed. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: the official text of the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections is confirmed. We're voting. The first vote was not successful. I'd like some more attention, please. Secondly, we are voting on the proposal for a decision to confirm the officially consolidated text of the law on topography of semiconductor connections. We'll vote next time. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the Industrial Property Act." We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. We decide on the proposal for a decision: "Confirm the officially consolidated text of the trade law." We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 37 votes against 5. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the assembly has officially cleared the text. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "A formal consolidated text of the Industrial Property Rights Act is confirmed from the working relationship." We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I find that the assembly has officially cleared the text of the law. I hereby conclude this agenda item and move on to 24. A/ PERIOD OF THE DAY, THAT IS TO REVEAL THE AMENDMENT OF THE REPORT ON ECONOMIC SOCIETYS, ENTITIES OR INSTRUMENTS, FOR WHICH, IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE FIRST PARAGRAPH, 20. A member of the Act on the non-conformity of the public function with gainful activity is subject to a ban on business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment to the report was submitted to the assembly by the Commission under the Act on the Incompatibilities of the performance of a public function with a gainful activity. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Under the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, the Commission proposes to the assembly to adopt the following decision: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt an amendment to the report on companies, undertakings or institutions which, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 20 of the Act on the non-compatibility of performing a public function by virtue of a gainful activity, shall be prohibited from doing business with the State, public undertakings and public institutions. The amendment of the report shall be published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia." We are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 49 votes against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. It's a day's work, mind-blowing. We will discuss the proposals for conclusions. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on individual proposals. We first decide on the proposal of the Council of Justice for election to a judicial function. The Council of Justice submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to appoint Mrs Martine Lippai to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the representative of the Council of Justice want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal addressed the Commission's mandate-holder as the working body and presented a proposal for a decision to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision appointing Mrs Martine Lippai to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 50 votes against one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting! There are 54 of us present. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament? [[Not at all.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting! There are 53 of us present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the national community. The proposal to amend the decree was submitted to the assembly by the Italian and Hungarian national groups. Does the representative or representative of the delegation wish to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The MPs, the MPs? [[Not at all.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for the National Communities. There are 57 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to Continuation 2. Agenda items - Third defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Restrictions on the Use of Tobacco Products. Yesterday, 17.12., the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposed law. Since amendments have not been tabled in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, we are moving to a third reading, to a decision on a proposal for a law. We're voting! There are 58 of us present. There were 47 votes against 5. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to Continuation 4. Agenda items - Third Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Nature Conservation Act. Yesterday, 17.12., the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposed law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has warned that the law, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the parent committee, is inconsistent and has therefore prepared the harmonisation amendments you received on the bench. These are two amendments: and the amendment to Article 27 and the amendment to Article 28 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nature Conservation. I give my word about the harmonisation amendments to a government representative if he wants to? No, no, no. Members of the parliamentary groups, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament? Not at all. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 27. There are 56 of us present. 49 votes against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. And also on the harmonisation amendment to Article 28. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 49 votes against none. The vote was 49.) [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. We're voting. There are 60 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I'm sorry, I skipped the third item of the agenda, so we're moving on to follow-up 3. This is, on the third, a proposal for a law on the growth of the Republic of Slovenia for obligations under the loan agreement with the Bank of Creditanstalt Für Wideraufbau in the amount of EUR 50 million. Yesterday, 17.12., the National Assembly held a second reading of that bill. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, we are moving, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, to a third reading, to a decision on a proposal for a law. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 47 votes against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. Just a moment, please. Today we have not been able to complete, for known reasons, on the bench of the proposed harmonisation amendments, It's broken 10. It's the day's work. I ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups if we are going to decide on the harmonisation amendments? Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. I took the materials into my own hands, nothing could be determined before, and I can only say that: from materials coming out that are available to me, we cannot classify these amendments as harmonisation amendments. Because with the entry, with the amendment to Article 7, it is a complete substantive intervention into a law for which we cannot do so with the harmonisation amendment. The same applies to the content of the Act in Article 16(4). And of course also Article 9 - the harmonisation amendment brings a new text, which I think may be an editorial, but I think this is an amendment, this is a matter of content. As I understand the rules of procedure, the only clear option is to reject the law or reject the new text and come with a new text, this path is the fastest, or to postpone this point to one of the next meetings, but we will meet with the same substantive question, which is why the time of adoption of this law will move away. That's how I ruled after entering the materials I have into the concept of harmonisation amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Can we ask for the help of representatives of the Legal and Legislative Service? Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u259	Madam Vice-President, the legislative and legal service in relation to this law did not carry or give warnings about the coordination process, but was led by the government. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we have two entities which are alternative and there is no provision for mutual opinions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Yes, there you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u261	If the congregation permits, if it permits the leadership of the assembly, we can give our own expert opinion, which is never provided for under the rules of procedure. Of course, we are evaluating professionally because it is a non-compliance - it can be created with amendments adopted in the transitional stages. Dictika says that if the amendments adopted have led to non-conformity and are not phased out and, of course, amendments adopted in the previous, second phase may also have caused inconsistencies, but they could not have been eliminated because of the business incompetence because they were closed - for example - articles, or sometimes there was a subsequent finding. We cannot, in fact, oppose, from a professional point of view or from a harmonisation amendment to Article 9, because the definition of the inn establishment, which is used as a term during this law, has fallen out with the amendment adopted at the second reading meeting. In fact, in this respect, this could mean harmonising the text. However, this is only the professional price of our service, which has no business weight, because as such it is not envisaged anywhere.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Mr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u263	Well, I'm not translated for legal interpretation, but I can certainly say that there are articles in front of us that need harmonisation because they are at odds with each other. So I can say in any way that the law, which is intended to restrict alcohol, cannot, of course, include it. We believe that Article 15 also clearly proves this, and this also proves a lack of consistency, for example, cannot include the existence of machines selling alcohol. I think that this law clearly - with all the debate, including all the amendments that have been tabled in previous discussions - has shown that we want to limit alcohol to 18 years of age, including by limiting sales during nighttime and with other restrictions. It is clear that the appearance of automatics now means a mismatch between the articles. Therefore, as a proposalr, I can only propose the procedure that could be done in the most meaningful manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u264	Thank you very much. Mr. Brenčič, then Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u265	Thank you very much. I wouldn't open it myself, or I should've read it at the third reading. But in our third reading, we adopted the amendment to Article 15 proposed by the government. This is not a pure matter under the rules of procedure, I alone do not want to intervene; the government is the bill-maker and cannot be the amendment's proponent in this context, even if there is a third reading. But now for the good of the marriage let it go through. This is how it is now, I think - but I can read the rules wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u266	The Government in the third absolute is the Government's proponent, the legitimate candidate of the amendment, in the third reading of the bill. [[...]] [[...]] Government of the Republic of Slovenia, for sure. The National Assembly has accepted the amendment. This led to - non-conformity was found. We have before us the amendments prepared by the government as a bill-maker. That's all right. Just a minute. Please hold hands so I can write you all down. We are now in the stage of discussion on the harmonisation amendments. I have Mr. Kelemina, Mrs. Shirca, then the minister. That's all. Mr. Kelemina, you have the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u267	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues! Nevertheless, I would suggest that we resolve this anecdotal problem in some way now. In fact, I would suggest that you also adopt this proposal for a law, because in a global way, all together, one great splinter and nonsense, and this law is, in my opinion, a purely political "scrupture" of the deception of the Slovenian public. In fact, the fact that after the adoption of this law, people will primarily talk about whether they can drink another sip of any alcoholic drink at seven o’clock in the morning or not, and thus will be extremely busy for the next three months or two years, let’s say. Meanwhile, the ruling coalition will be able to continue to possess, take over, and so on. In short, Mr candidate for a minister is extremely philosophical, psychological and politically subdued and he knows how to deal with the masses, and this is certainly one of such laws and he would suggest that you accept it as soon as possible, that people have something to deal with on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u269	Thank you very much. I admit that when we received the amendments to the table, I myself tried to renew the knowledge from the committee or from the second reading of the law on the home committee. Well, and especially because of Article 7, as mentioned in the third reading text, I did not recall, given that there was a different record in our memory than we actually have now on the table. Therefore, I would ask - also, Mr President of the Committee, if you would listen - after a magnetogram of the Committee's meeting, that the text of Article 7 which we have in the Rapporteur printed and which the Ministry or which the Government wanted to coordinate editorially does not correspond to what was adopted at the Committee's own meeting. I will therefore repeat, Mr Brenčič, the words you have spoken on the Committee and then apparently "tied" or otherwise entered into the text of the third paragraph of Article 7. Can you follow? I am reading your magnetogram from the meeting of the Committee of the National Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons of the 25th meeting. You said the following. [[It was the amendment of Mr. Tsukati.]] : "When we are still at the third paragraph of the amendment of the same proposer's proposal as in the first paragraph, by the fact that it is an amendment of the committee and also - yes, it would be as follows: in the third paragraph, the word " - that is, that we have corrected all the doctrines of Article 7. [[I'm not quoting this.]] Yes, I have to correct the confusion, given that the text in the rapporteur is not the same as the Committee's decision - I have to! [[...]] We were correcting the syntagma of the word "drinking." And I go on to say, "For the word 'drinker' is added the text 'and drinks which are added to them by alcoholic beverages from automatic self-service devices." See, if we read the whole text of the third paragraph again, it would read as follows: It is prohibited - as you see now the third paragraph - "The sale of alcoholic beverages and beverages added to them by alcoholic beverages from automatic self-service devices is prohibited." That's how the text will follow. I'm making a decision, and that's what we've decided. And that's not in line with what's written here. I'm sorry. It was a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u271	There won't be a replica. Look, a proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u272	Others have the advantage to discuss themselves because they are ahead of you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u273	I know because he doesn't hold that. The proposal was prepared as a complementary proposal for second reading by the parent working body. Since more amendments were adopted in the second amendment than so many, we did not draw the same text forward in the third reading, but the government or the proposer prepared the text for the third reading. I don't know how we're looking at a second reading back here. This is a new text that was drawn up after the second reading and prepared by the Government. And nothing else. And we can't go back to the basic proposal of the law right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Allow me to give in the order in which they were reported. First, Mr. Minister, then Mr. Anderlich, Mr. Cuckati. If I saw it correctly, Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u275	The government would certainly want to amend Article 7 in the form it is now written, and it should prepare an amendment here. Because, as we now have in front of us, Article 7 permits machines for persons over 18 years of age. Even if there was a manifest error in the preparation - that is, there was no amendment of the committee in the second reading - there is something in front of us in the third reading that no one has amended, but it is written down. This is another reason why the Government, which allows the fifth paragraph of Article 140 to either rule of law or the Government, finds that these are non-coordinated articles and to point out this to the President. So I still believe that the reason we came up with a text that is not harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u276	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich, it's your turn. [[..]] Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u277	I think the speaker gave up--
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u278	That was very bold, Mr Cuckoo, please, thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u279	I regret this way of working, but I propose procedurally that we postpone this point to the January session, because it is impossible to correct the magnetograms here and to clear up what happened and what was not. No matter what! Even if the service made a mistake that it was misdiagnosed - I suppose it could be that, too, committees, because the committee is working on the text, the committee is working on the text and this text is: "person, younger than 18 years", came in, which is not in the magnetogram, but let's leave it now. In the meantime or later, the assembly has already approved the law in the second reading and adopted the amendment in the third reading, and even if it were true that it was written wrong, nothing else applies because what the assembly has adopted is merocratic. And the thing can be typed a hundred times, and I don't know what! And because I'm not sure what we're taking in this particular case, but above all, I think that when you talk about the definition of a restaurant, it doesn't belong in the harmonisation amendment, because the restaurant is in one way or another regulated by other laws, so defined. But because I don't want to, I don't want us to continue to debate now, because we are in a situation where obviously every single truth here is being explained, I suggest that we continue this debate in January.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Since this is a procedural proposal proposed by Mr Anderlič, a parliamentary group, in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary group may propose that the debate and decision on the matter under consideration be postponed to one of the following meetings. Such a proposal shall be decided by the national assembly, so that the proposal put forward by Mr Anderlič on behalf of the Group of Members may be made by the views of the Group of Members and then we shall decide on this motion for postponement. Does any of the members of the Group wish to make their views known? On behalf of the SLS Group of Members - Mr Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Of course, we will support it, because such a law as it is now cannot be brought to light in such a dilemma. But I know we're wasting our time, so we'll back him up for one of the next sessions. But I want to say. We will also be faced with such a problem tomorrow with a decision submitted by the mother’s working body to the plenary by the Medical Service Act. It is impossible to make a quality law out of a proposal as prepared as the applicant submits it. And then we resolve it in accordance with the rules of procedure, that somehow the services of the committee are being tortured, along with the proposer for some amendments and then we "gang" how and what. This type of work is very difficult, and most of the time, we end up in a different way than we wanted. We will support this going to one of the future meetings, I think at the very first, and to clear up and prepare the elements for the adoption of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u282	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members - Mr Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u283	We have already warned at the beginning of the hearing that there are not really major substantive problems, but the procedure itself has led us to think that there are a bunch of things that we do not know how they will be resolved or how they can be resolved because the articles have not been opened or the uncoordinatedness has been drawn from previous readings. I don't think it's our job to find this solution. We support the proposal to postpone this to the next session. This is the time to let the jobs deal with it. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Mr Drobnič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u285	Thank you so much for saying that. In view of this complication and the business arrangements, I do not think that we will be able to resolve the matter either. The most elegant solution is to reject the law and to offer this solution in a truly harmonised form. That's what I think is best. Otherwise, we'll be arguing with this law for two more months because it's been transported. I have already said in the morning that this law will be a problem because it is inconsistent and a certain text is difficult to enforce. And in view of all this, our Group of Members will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-18-SDZ3-Redna-21.ana.u286	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the proposal to postpone this item to one of the following meetings in accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. The vote was 47, against 7. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. And the proposal for a law on the limitation of alcohol consumption, the third is being considered, is being moved to one of the next meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 21st meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all very much.
