ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Colleagues and colleagues! Please calm down. Dear colleagues, Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members of Parliament. Franc Kangler, Roman Jakič, Marko Diaci, Franc Čebulj, Franc Pukšič, Yuri Malovrej for the start of the session, Aloise Peterle, Danica Simšič will be absent between 11.00 and 12.00 and Ferry Horvat. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall! Please insert the cards, inspect your voting nature and we will check the quorum. Please, if we use the "quorum" key to determine the conjunctivities! There are 47 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and we can proceed with the work. The representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia are invited to this session, and I also welcome them. Today's continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the interrupted 3rd item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on local self-government. We will then come to the end of item 5 of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on political parties, and then on agendas 6a, 6th and further. Nice to meet you! Moving to third reading 3. Agenda items - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. Yesterday we decided on Article 11 and the amendment to Article 11. We're moving on to Article 12 of the Act. One amendment from the LDS Group, the United List, the People's Party and DeSUS has been tabled. Does anyone want a word? Since yesterday, colleagues Ivan Kebric, Mr Sušnik, have been reported for the debate and Mr Anderlič, State Secretary, Mrs Prašnikar, has also come forward.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. As this continuation of yesterday's adjourned debate, the last panellist was Willi Trophynik and pointed out certain problems. I wanted to replicate it yesterday, but there's not as many replicas as there is an opinion. I think we understand that a lot of things are unclear. Therefore, I ask the representative of the secretariat for legislation to explain whether everything is now consistent or not, that we do not get to the end, and the secretariat will consider, and that is not okay, and we will start from the place. I believe that the basic question raised by colleague Villa Trofenik is the difference between the rights of those representatives to the others. As I understand it, it is the duty of the government to speak to the representatives, and others can be spoken to or not. If we clear this matter up now, then I hope it will be clear to us without any confusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. I give my word to Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much. I would like to support this amendment because I believe that the dictatorship of this amendment, which binds the National Assembly as legislator, does not exclude the individual local community from adopting matters concerning local communities. I think it should be cited. In the event that a law directly affects a local community, the interest of the association in this case may prevail if local communities are excluded from cooperation in the legislative procedure. That's why we're going to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you, Mr. Sušnik. I give my word to Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	This amendment came about yesterday after a consultation with the government and the secretariat. My personal opinion is that the first part of the amendment is one way or another what is regulated in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and is already being implemented. The second part, however, is part of the internal government regime. The opinion yesterday was that it would be useful to make things more transparent. I ask the secretariat and the government not to continue this discussion, what it means if we do not accept these two amendments, whether then the law is inconsistent with itself or is inconsistent, whether it is possible and necessary to amend an amendment that is more clear and transparent in this regard. The purpose was solely to regulate these matters in the manner necessary in order to achieve the basic purpose of ensuring that local communities, associations and, of course, individual local communities are informed and have the opportunity to participate at the invitation of the bodies of the national assembly and that the government, in the part concerning it, has to deal with these issues in a way that it may obtain the opinion of local communities before proposing them, accept them or accept them. I therefore ask whether the content of the law would suffer if this amendment were not adopted or if things needed to be corrected, and how?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Prašnikar to explain these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you. First of all, if this amendment is not adopted in the first and second paragraphs, then the amendment of Mrs Zupanova is already in force. However, I would explain what, in fact, the introduction or what the Government proposed in the basic text, and what, in fact, this cooperation between associations would look like now through all three articles and, perhaps, state authorities in a narrower sense. Article 94, in the event that the existing situation, the first paragraph of Article 94, remains in force, which means that the participation of the national assembly or the commitment to the national assembly remains that it must obtain the opinion of all local communities prior to the adoption of the law, this is now in Article 94 in the first paragraph and remains in force. Now, of course, we are talking about paragraph two and paragraph three. The Government proposed in the basic text a paragraph to ensure the appropriate participation of representative associations before finalising the draft laws. That was our government proposal. The Government has drafted or proposed this proposal in the basic text because we have been based on the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which calls on the state authorities or local authorities to have the opportunity, in due time, to express their views in the planning of legislation. In practice, therefore, the congregations remind us that, most of the time, associations can, I will now speak in general about all associations, only get a word in the National Assembly when, in fact, the only obligation to cooperate with the Association associations is many times in the previous proceedings simply not to participate. In the event that we are invited as a local government office to work with associations to invite them, of course we organise appropriate meetings, now this is also happening, I could say, in some ways later, when it goes through the government and then we further implement some amendments according to the proposals of the associations. But this preliminary procedure is not consistent. It is under the European Charter of Local Self-Government to handle this. That's why the government suggested it. Now, of course, the amendments tabled do not contradict our view, for this first paragraph speaks of the additional invitation of associations or, in this case, representative associations to the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly. So it's basically some sort of ex post obligation. The following paragraph also refers to this preliminary procedure. In fact, this is some subsequent cooperation with associations, whether with representatives or not, we believe that there is no contradiction here, because in article 11 itself states in paragraph 5 that associations can represent - what Mr Trofenik said yesterday - their municipalities, their members before the state authorities. That's what's left of it. No one's actually restricting it. That is why we believe that these articles do not conflict.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	Thank you, Madam Secretary of State. I give the floor to Mrs. Bitenc Peng. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. With regard to the question, which has also been addressed to the Secretariat, the Secretariat has a similar position as the Government has just explained. We don't really see any particular contradictions between these amendments and the other arrangements. We believe that this is a representative association, to define certain specific obligations that are not only defined in principle, but rather the general context of the arrangements for the cooperation of associations with State authorities, specific obligations, i.e. the invitation to meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly for representative associations - the original text of the second reading is not referred to representative associations and rather to an addendum concerning the internal government procedure with the opinion of the Minister. So we think that these are additionally more precise obligations higher than representative associations, and we do not throw other associations out of the game, but the obligations are defined more loosely and less precisely for other associations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you for explaining. Anyone else want a word? In order, Mr. Trophynik, then Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you. I would like to say the following in the form of a replica, even though I will now be a layman objecting to the profession. I think it's a misunderstanding, whether it's a will or not. My contribution or opposition to the solution yesterday was in the sense that in Article 11, paragraph 5 we are applying associations of municipalities whose purpose is to participate in the adoption of laws or other regulations. With this amendment, we give this right exclusively to representative associations, but representativeness is in principle controversial because the European Charter is unknown. Please don't drive such a slalom. First, we give an opportunity, and the primary purpose of the associations should be to unite in order to exercise their interests, and then in the following article, we re-enact this room of manoeuvre or transfer it only to someone who is fundamentally controversial. I have asked three times and I have not received an answer three times, direct that the European Charter does not know representative associations. If we have already introduced representation in a strange way, then let us be consistent and leave open room for manoeuvre. Why should they then unite or be other associations if the higher-a-vis states are unable to exercise their interests? It is a conscious attempt to create a tampon between a multitude of local communities and state authorities, which will translate in its own way as a mediator of interests in one way or another. Secondly, neither the proposal on the basis nor the amendment solves the current fundamental problem between the country and local communities in the area of sub-legislative acts. Ministers and the government shall draw up, at their own discretion, sub-laws having direct consequences, financial and other. Child care, funding regulations. In some government proceedings, the idea of abolishing municipal taxes and some questions are not asked by the congregations. The consequences will not only be on the budget, but will result in a higher labour force, with all the consequences in those municipalities and the like, not to mention them. Therefore, for the first time, neither the amendment nor the basic proposal solves the underlying problem. This amendment, however, revives in one article the previously established purpose of unifying to some representativeness, which is our specificity, which is not known by the European Charter. In this respect, my comments went and the answers that were, not to the questions raised, but to the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. Mr. Lavrinc has a replica of your debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Look, Mr. Trophynik. First of all, if we take this article now in force, paragraph 94, which is changing. "The National Assembly must, before the adoption of laws and other regulations which are in accordance with the Constitution" and so on, "encourage their opinion". That's the first one. We do this by inviting the President of the National Assembly, as we do, as you have here throughout this legislation, to invite all local communities to give their views. With this amendment, which we now have here before us, it is called the first part of this amendment, and we are adding an additional right. This is that you are well involved in the meetings of the working bodies that deal with this. That's what they say, that's an extra right, which is more. However, we have limited it because there are actually no spatial conditions, we have limited it to representative representatives. There won't be so many. I don't know what variant we took, but the four of them are the best. That's an extra right. But what is actually the most heartwarming thing now is, at least I read it this way, in the second part of the amendment, where it says, "Before the final drafting of the laws proposed by the government," this is one, "and other rules concerning jurisdiction, operation, financing of municipalities" and so on. This is also the case when the Minister of Education continues to decide that now, for example, ten children will need one nurse or five children. In short, when some standards are changed - that's what I read - they must, and then all local communities, have to give that opinion. However, someone who is like an angel to the Ombudsman in the government when these regulations are adopted, of course it is added that the Minister responsible for local self-government has to say whether they have been asked or whether they have been asked or not. That's how I read it, and that's why I don't feel bad.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lavrinz. Do you have a replica, Mr. Trophynik? Here's your word. Is there a replica? Then I apologize, Mr. Willi Trophynik, but I didn't know that Mrs. Flowers Orazim had a replica [[You have to show it another time.]] . Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry, but I just raised my hand and I thought it was known that it was a replica of your performance, Mr. Trophynik. I know you're always asking what it is and what it's like to be representative, but I've asked you something, and I've also said something - that I don't know the case of a country where there are more associations in Europe. In Europe, there is only one community association in all countries, as is known, which then represents this interest of local communities in the country. Of course, we have a specific situation in this case, so it seems to me that we are working hard, because now - and this is the essence of my replica - Article 11, paragraph 1 says that two or more municipalities can form an association. But we have 192 congregations. If two were to unite alone, this could theoretically mean inviting 96 representatives, two and two congregations, to the meetings of the Committees of the National Assembly, united in some associations. That could mean, I'll say, by my estimation, one big anarchy. And it is right that this is a sieve that is representativeness, that representative representatives can get and must get a bigger role, because in fact we are constantly listening to the murmuring and complaints of the municipalities, that the state does not involve them in procedures to communicate with them too little. That is why I welcome the government's move to start thinking about it. A typical example, however, cited by his colleague Lavrinc in this area, is that the government agreed on preschool education, both for criteria, standards, criteria and so on. All the financial consequences were for congregations that no one had asked, and in the end all accounts were presented to the congregations. In these cases, someone - and now that negotiations are under way at the Ministry of Education on this subject - must participate in these intensive negotiations between the two associations. I think it is right that, of course, 96 or 40 or 20, because these associations could, in my opinion, have arisen more if there were no more landscapes in this unfortunate country; then this might even be an interesting story. However, I think it is right and I welcome the second paragraph, because it means one additional option for the municipalities to communicate with the country, which is so damn missing and constantly scolding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Orzam. I understand that Mr. Villa Trofenic has a replica of the Lavrinca replica. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you. No, no, no. I have a replica of both my colleague Lavrinc and my colleague Orazm, both of them. And I'm going to ask both of you, or I'm going to say first that there will be no misunderstanding, as far as representativeness is concerned, if you want to have, if you don't go to some compromise I was talking about yesterday, you should remain an old solution. What we are now legislating is only a division that will harm local self-government and, if nothing else, that we are in the clear. But since you have gone recklessly, forgive the expression, in some way, which will show that we will all pay a large tax together in the area of self-government. But I'm asking you. What is the meaning of the fifth paragraph of Article 11 which reads as "the Association represents the interests of its members before the national authorities when they create or adopt laws or other regulations laying down the duties, rights, obligations and responsibilities of the municipalities or otherwise interfere with the rules on their behalf"? Once again, what is the point of this paragraph in the law if we recognize this only to representative associations? It is said that we have the right to associate without meaning. Then it would be logical to propose deleting this paragraph, and then I will shut up. Secondly, neither this paragraph nor the amendment, nor the basic one, protects the local communities from the will of the government or the sub-legislative sector. That's the point of the problem. Neither did the proposer, nor the one who tabled the amendments. No, because you are burdened with status quo with two associations and now how you introduce them, one tampon, one translator between a multitude of local communities and their interests and the state. Thank you. I won't bother anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. Mr. Rokavec, was it a replica? Then you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Look, it's not that simple. I am sure that if we remove from the law the determination of representativeness to obtain certain associations, then there will be more of these associations. And two or more congregations will form into an association. Given the problem of local self-government and the problems of municipalities and the quality of the representation of the municipalities, I am convinced that it is essential that we maintain our representativeness, that we allow the actual municipalities to connect and that they actually face their problems sufficiently strong in the eyes of the state authorities. If we're going to delete the word "representative," then we're going to make a bunch of associations. From the point of view of the country, it is likely that this even makes sense - the state will say, okay, you two should unite because you will not be connected, you will be significantly less effective. Therefore, I think it would be pointless to delete the representativeness of associations of municipalities. We have already already set a very high threshold for gaining representativeness. On the other hand, there is only one association in Europe; the neighbouring Austria has two associations. And it is not true that, in fact, if there is only one association, that association could be the most quality guarantee for good local self-government. Above all, the coordination of national authorities and then downwards towards local communities is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rokavec. Another replica, Mr. Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	Then I'll try to keep my mouth shut. Look, I understand it differently, Mr. Trophynik. What is written here is "the association represents interests" and so on, all these rights are a possibility of cooperation, but this is written cooperation. What I said before, what I think is to read in this first part of the amendment, is an additional right. No one here disputes that associations, whatever they may be, representative or non-representative, the association may also participate in the procedure when a regulation is adopted, as some law does, but of course in writing. However, there is no commitment to invite them to the meeting, for example, the Committee on Internal Policy, I hope that once the Committee on Local Self-Government, and that they sit there and have the right, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, to discuss. But they won't have these rights. Others, they're representative. So, I'll say, in a way, you're a little stimulating that at least -- because where it says that it can't be in two associations -- let's say Kamnik is in some association now, he can, and if he's not representative, he'll go to another association; for those things that he'll talk about in the national assembly, and he'll want to apply these things, but he'll be there. So if you ask me about running meetings and these things, I'd rather see that we throw it all out. We either way - practice is like that from before, it is nothing new - they come here and they are given the right, by inviting them to the meeting, as the public concerned, to present their opinions. It's just that we've put it into marriage now. In the second part - but now we have been quietly talking - there is a need to make this commitment to ministers. There are a lot of laws that give ministers powers. Then, in a hypocritical way, they can bring something like this, something that no one will see, and in some ways the congregation will be burdened with additional burdens. If that piece gets any better there - and as I've seen, there's already something written - it'll be pretty good for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you, Mr. Lavrinz. We have two more debates reported, Mr Tone Anderlič and colleague Kebrich. My friend Kebrich quits, thank you very much. Tone Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	I think that we can conclude the discussion on representativeness in the way that we have already been told to change this second part by simply ensuring the proper cooperation of the associations of the congregations. How, what, will the case show how they will organize themselves, they will have to receive the notice. This would mean that the amendment should be amended to amend article 12 by saying, "The Government and the competent ministers must ensure the appropriate participation of the associations of the municipalities before the adoption of the laws or before they are submitted to the National Assembly for adoption and prior to the adoption of the other rules of their jurisdiction relating to the jurisdiction of the operation and financing of the municipalities". Let's get rid of these problems. We'll write that, too. If that were right and it would take you a few minutes to get it, because you probably don't trust it, and it's only right to trust in the reading that you'll see for yourself. But it seems to me that both the representativeness and the mixing of rules and other matters with legal matter should be eliminated. Let us impose what is essential, however, that both the government and ministers have to deal with all matters relating to jurisdiction, operation and, of course, financing, which is the most important and most frequently mentioned problem, to coordinate or verify with the directly affected. We need 5 or 10 minutes. Either we do it this way or you break the point, even though it's not popular.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	Comrade Anderlich, how long does it take to write this to at least read it? Most texts won't change, if I understand correctly. In the meantime, Mr. Kelemina has a replica. I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I would have one question about what Mrs. Zalokarev said. She said we could have 192 associations under this law now. I don't think it's true that the maximum is only 3. Have we not accepted an amendment to Article 11, which states that at least one quarter of the inhabitants of the Republic of Slovenia? Yes, representative. It is said that three representative associations could have the most. But if you think the rest of you are associations when you're writing two more, but I think this is about these representative associations, there can't be more than three. Well, that's how it was theoretically calculated. Would you like to explain, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	No, no, no. In fact, I just wanted to say that we're talking about associations here, which, of course, because the criteria aren't, we can't or we don't know how many of them there will be. But since there are no criteria for how many congregations can unite, these associations can be quite a number. They get representative status according to certain criteria, while there are no restrictions on the association. This is emphasized by the fact that the gathering of congregations is not limited.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Now a little patience to discuss whether this revised amendment will be made in writing. Do you agree that Mr Anderlich reads again this revised amendment, which he explained earlier? I see everyone disagrees. Please, let's calm down. Let's work this out. My friend Kebrich has a procedural procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	So there won't be any misunderstandings, I'm asking that I get this amendment on the table because they're fixing it right now. What we're gonna get out of here, no one's gonna get to know each other.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I interrupt this third item of the agenda again to prepare this amendment. We talked about this yesterday. And we're going to the 5th item of the agenda where we stayed yesterday. Procedurally, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	I do not know, Mr President, no one has proposed that the meeting be suspended. I propose that this amendment, which they have written, be put to the vote. We are simply voting, we will have a law such as this ruling coalition is capable of bringing it together and then we will go to the next point. Nobody suggested a breakup. Nor did they predict that any other amendment would be tabled. What they are now creating and writing during the meeting is, of course, probably not merciless for the entire Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. But before that, it was procedural to get this in writing on the table. And it's only right to get on the table. Let us therefore suspend this third item of the agenda. We're going to the 5th item of the agenda, and my colleagues are going to make an amendment. Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the 5th item of the agenda - the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties. Yesterday we terminated this point and continue it under Article 3 with the review of the amendments of 23.5.2002. We have two amendments to Article 3. I am putting Article 3 and the two amendments to the debate. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 3. We are moving to a vote, first of all on the amendment under point 1 of the Socialist Group of Members. We're voting, please. You're not paying attention. Please calm down, fellows. Let us end the separate debate by group and vote again. We'll vote next time. There are 47 of us present, 18 votes against 25. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. I shall put to the vote the amendment referred to in point 2 to Article 3. We're voting, please. Before that, I asked if anyone wanted to discuss it, and no one answered. We voted under point 1, now we can only vote again under point 2. But the explanation for the vote is yes. Comrade Trofenik, you have the floor. We'll vote next time. We're voting. There are 46 present, 38.4 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on Article 3 as a whole. We're voting. The 53 Members and Members present voted 41-10 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I am putting Article 4 and the amendment to Article 4 proposed by the Committee on Internal Policy. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 41.8 against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This amends the article and we need to re-vote the article. I am putting to the debate Article 2, to which no amendment has been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. Let's vote on Article 2! Let's vote! There are 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 46.6 against. The vote was 46.) [[Against six.]] I take it that Article 2 has been adopted. I'm putting Article 5 into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving to the vote. Let's vote on Article 5. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 42, 3 against. The vote was 42.) [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to discuss the title? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and put to the vote the title of the law. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 43.1 against. The vote was 43.) [[Against one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I understand that the amendments were adopted at second reading. Do qualified applicants wish to table an amendment in the third reading? I don't see a proposal. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Mr. Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, representatives of the government! Yesterday, my fellow Member of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Sašo Peče, said some assessments and thoughts regarding the articles that we have adopted today, given the increase in resources, in view of the increased spending at a time when we are talking about the rebalancing of our budget. Is this justified, or is it justified, to increase funds and receive funds on the basis of the law we are talking about to political parties? That's one question. At this point, when we are talking about the balance of the budget, I am stressing once again the position of the Slovenian National Party about the deficits that are emerging in the country, and at this point such acceptance is certainly not appropriate for us. Therefore, I should also say on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues and colleagues of the Slovenian national party that we will not support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	Thank you, Mr. Barovich. Anyone else want a word? A colleague of mine called. Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you for your word. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we ask for a 10-minute recess before the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	Anybody else want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and giving 10 minutes of breaks before deciding. We'll continue the session at 11.03.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	Colleagues and colleagues! It's been ten minutes, and there's something else, and we're moving on to the point. Mr. Pece requested ten minutes' rest. You want a word, Mr. Pache, before the final decision? Mr. Pache, you want a word? Please, colleagues and colleagues, calm down.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	Allow me to take this opportunity, and I would ask if you would give me a word in explanation of vote so I won't delay needlessly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Before making a decision, I would also like to ask about the harmonisation of the law. I give the floor to Mrs. Bitenc. [[There's no need.]] So we're going to make a decision. Before that, you would like to explain the voice of Mr Pece and Mr Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, as well as Mr Barovic. Please, in order, Pec, Jelinčič, Barovic, Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	Thank you for the warning and thank you for your determination that it is necessary for the National Assembly to sometimes also calm down and listen to individual Members. See, as on behalf of the parliamentary group, at the opening of the topic, i.e. the Political Parties Act, we have been told that it seems extremely unrealistic to us by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by the negotiators of the ruling parties within the Republic of Slovenia, that, at the same time as there is a state deficit in such an amount, at the same time as there is an adjustment in the ratio of revenue and expenditure within the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, that, at the same time as all the macroeconomic institutions in our country are moving down, and at the same time when we have the highest inflation in all the accession candidates for entry into the European Union, this Parliament is meeting with a proposal to raise funds for the operation of political parties. However it may seem to anyone that the vast or overly loose concept of financing political parties, but this very law, the very law on political parties in its substantive work, allows for the movement and functioning of the regional committees in the same direction as it is - and I will now quote: "With the amendment of the law, local communities will be able to devote more resources to the financing of political parties, in accordance with their budgetary capabilities." But who sets the priorities and tasks for the development of local communities, and we know that these are policies within municipal councils, they determine for themselves. And if we in law allow them to increase funds for the operation of political parties, which need to be stressed that they must not have any more major giro accounts, but can only have sub-accounts to continue to be shown in the annual reports in the single client records, we know that these funds are not intended for committees or individual city or municipal committees. It would be reasonable and reasonable, however, for all members of the National Assembly to demand today that the dictatorship be amended, that funds for financing municipal action be made available for the amendment of the Local Community Act, that funds be made available to finance employment programmes, that funds be made available to finance new jobs programmes, that funding, that funds for those programmes that promote some competitiveness, that marketability in individual local communities that enable decentralised development, not as the Republic of Slovenia is trying to do, and that you have dictated this desire to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, only the parties that come from the governing structure in this country to finance yourself through the last door. Allow me further my own assessment, although it has been said several times that Members should avoid critical judgments. Shame be the Member to support this law in this situation. Shame on the one who will be in this country at the moment, in this state, allowing funding to be increased exclusively and only to political parties. Shame on him. I won't support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you, Mr. Pache. But please don't insult anyone else who will vote in favour of this law. Mr Jelinčič has the floor, an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I fully support everything a fellow Member of the Slovenian National Party has said, Mr Sašo Peče. With this law, major political parties in the field want to receive additional funding for political officials. It is a repetition of the former socialist system and of the regime by which some political gentlemen make their bases in their homes and will be some kind of kings in Bethany, if that is not an insult, I hope that this is not an insult. Thank you. Some of the kings of Bethin, who ruled as kings, decided on the fate of their subordinate fellow citizens in their local communities. I think it's a very perfidious and clever way of getting funding for private interests. Go to Slovenia and see how some gentlemen are getting rich at the expense of political parties because they are members of certain political parties. Something like this has not even happened in the former Yugoslavia to the extent that it is happening today in Slovenia. On the other hand, there is no money for almost nothing that would be good for citizens and citizens. The Ministry of the Economy has issued an invitation to tender for the development of the underdeveloped regions with the highest unemployment rate. Do you have any idea how much money they've made for this call, for the whole state of Slovenia, for the whole year? 200 million tolars or, according to your household, 4 Drnovsko's Mercedes. 4 Drnovsko's Mercedes for all Slovenia. And here you want to give additional financial resources to political officials, political parties who will spend them, you know how. Certainly not for the benefit of your fellow citizens. Yeah, it's true. It's true, Mr. Beumann, I already know. That's why I'm saying it. The difference between me and others is that I, like other colleagues from the Slovenian National Party, say this to people. It is true that you manage to control the media to a large extent and that these things are not published to a large extent, but magnetograms exist and magnetograms may be read over time by someone. And in the end, I will not support this marriage. I won't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr. Jelinčich. I give the floor to Mr Barovic to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you very much. As I said before, but not in explanation, but in the third reading of the law, I will not support it. I repeat the reason. It is not a good time at this time of state finances to talk about this system-wide legislation, which is complex, about such things, about increasing funds for political parties. There is another reason: respected colleagues and colleagues, for which I will not support either this nor other laws of system law. First of all, the meeting of the National Assembly lasts for ten days. We haven't even done 10% of everything we have to do. Why? Because we're dealing with this system legislation because it's inconclusive. Following a reduced procedure, on the Home Policy Committee, which is supposed to play an important role in accordance with the rules of procedure that you, honourable colleagues and colleagues have voted on. Maternal working bodies play an important role. Let the debate be there. Let the conclusions be there, not in the National Assembly. What's going on, even though it's not working? It's just a debate. It's just the debate, he's talking. We didn't do anything on our mother's work. And this is where Mr Lavrinc, as president, can confirm. There's no such thing as a concoction. We can check who he is and where he is. The Secretariat for Justice and the Law of this National Assembly shall carry out the work that the legislative working bodies of the Government should do. That's what I told them. It is not fair and it is not right for us to correct laws and work our secretariat on the work that should be done by the government in the third hearings. It's not fair and it's not right for the National Assembly, and it's not right for the Secretariat to come up with the points we have, and then we hear that we're not going to adopt European legislation. One more thing. That's right, I get it. We've got local elections ahead of us. It's all right. But there is a lot of fighting in this House between the individual mayors about individual points in this legislation on state administration and local administration and so on. That's not right. Local fights should be held when local elections are held and in this national assembly. I'm sure everything we've discussed so far is jumping from point to point, and I know what we're talking about. We finish point 3, we go to point 5, we go to point 4, we end point 5, we don't end point 5, we go to point 3. No one knows what we are doing in this House anymore. It's not fair and it's not right, it's not right for all of us. Let us once, dear fellows and colleagues, reconcile ourselves. Let the laws be prepared as they should, if they are already in the short run, and we will accept them or not. For that reason, too. That was an explanation for my voice. I will not vote for this, nor for the other system laws which are dealt with in this way and in such a procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you. There is a colleague, Willi Trofenik, who has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I will vote against it solely because of the change that has been enacted or will be legalised in the area of financing political parties from municipal budgets. I also take advantage of the explanation of vote for the protest because the Rules of Procedure were violated in the second reading, when at least my vote was not explained in the vote. Not when you explained your explanation, but later. That, by the way. I'm afraid we don't know what we're talking about in this house. Therefore, as an argument that I will vote against the adoption of the law, I will say the calculation. So far, the solution of 30 tolars per voice received at local elections for the municipal council was adopted in 2000 and is abnormally low. However, it is not consistent with the second parameter, it was not then, not now, 0.2 per cent of the appropriate consumption, because this parameter allows for a twelvefold increase.This is said if we decided on a monthly 30 tolar, if this were always in the framework and taking into account the electoral participation, as in the last local elections only 58 per cent, we could still increase it 12 times. Now we have not increased by twelve, but now we have increased by more than thirty. In a three-voice global, between 60% and 70% of the expected participation will come, not 30 tolars as it is now, but about 1,000 tolars. Of course, such decisions cannot be supported. As I have already said to this subject, I repeat, where are those mentalists now, when they were disturbed by 271 million, or as has already been said today, the whole budget line to encourage foreign investment to create new jobs is indeed 200 million, or the new global to fund political parties is more than 50% of the budget allocated to the funds to promote regional development. That is why, of course, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. Mr. Tarchoon has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	I must say that I will support the law, because I understand that, above all, in financing customers at local level, it will bring transparency and stop the insistence of customers at local level, to try to finance themselves in a semi-legal way, if not even in an illegal way and to "buypass" an arrangement that does not actually cover the basic costs of material costs, rents and so on. I understand, however, that some here on the local level are less party than they are in the National Assembly. I understand that some local parties do not have their networks developed, distributed, and they do not care so much. And I understand they're taking advantage of this opportunity to sell demagogies, because this is an opportunity to do so. I would say, however, that some of the parties to the Chamber have already had the practice of electing a relatively large number of their Members, but only a few members who have remained in this party to the end have taken the money out of the funding, of course at the state level. I'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you, Comrade Terchon. I also give the floor to Mrs Sonja Areh and then to my colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Your Honor! The financing of political parties, as proposed in this Act, is totally unacceptable for the Slovenian National Party. Look, there's no money for plumbing, no money for roads. I come from an area where a few places will soon be cut off from the links to the main roads. And I could count it. And I fully support my colleagues, and I will not support this law myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. I'm also giving the word to Tonet Anderlich, and she's giving up. With this, we have exhausted our explanations of vote and are going to the decision-making process. We will vote on the law as a whole. We're voting, please. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes item 5 of the agenda. And that we'll know what we're going on about, we'll continue to break 3. It's a day's work. We stayed with Article 12 and the amendment to Article 12. We have received the new text of the amendment to Article 12 of 30.5.2002. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am making an amendment to Article 12. Voice explanation, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I will not support this amendment, especially for the reason that I think that this amendment will accelerate the emergence of an abundance of associations, but it will mean that there will be actually ineffective representation of municipalities to state authorities, and of course the country will have easier work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	I will also explain my voice because there is no replica to this, because someone could quickly tell me - and I apologize - that I only woke up to explanations of voice, given my difficulties that I sometimes have at the beginning of the afternoon meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	My friend Partich, but we're really not in the clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	No, we're not in the explanation of the voice. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	No, we're on amendment to Article 12.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	But I'll talk, so I'm sorry! [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	I apologize, before continuing with the amendment to Article 12, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	Yeah, yeah, sure. This article will now support. Earlier, I had always thought of following my fellow Member in yesterday's discussion that this might not be necessary. I will also support it because, in a way, it shows how sometimes, even in this process, a longer discussion makes sense, because it seems to me that we have now received an amendment that is, in a sense, meaningful and, in another way, I would think that this should be done on its own if we had a normal political dialogue between the centres and during decentralisation. It seems clear to me that there is no way for marriage to come from an area where the victims would not have been consulted earlier. So, in this case, with the representatives of the municipalities. I think if we were to take this to the National Assembly, it would have come to what the School was saying yesterday, and it would have made no sense in its own way. I can't imagine how the current MPs, the mayors, on the committee would argue with their representatives. That's why I think it makes sense now, even though it makes sense for me to run without it. I will support, as it is written, even though it is quite clear that Article 1 is the first paragraph too long and that it would be more than enough: "The government must ensure the appropriate participation of the associations of municipalities before the adoption of proposals and other rules." Now we have three receptions there - but let it be. I also accept the second paragraph, which he would really not miss -- because it's so easy, maybe I can't even see it myself -- at least before "when" there would be a comma and maybe we could just write it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	Thank you, Tone Partich. We can go to the vote on the amendment to Article 12 of 30.5., we will vote. We're voting, please. There are 57 Members and Members of Parliament present and 44.1 votes against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. I now ask for clarification whether this amendment of 29.5. to 12 has been withdrawn. Confirmation: yes and we do not need to vote on it. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on - the amendment has been amended and has also been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 13 and the amendment to Article 13. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you for your word. Just a shorter explanation. The fact is that wages at the local level are in a large imbalance - not only to the mayoral salaries, but also the relationship is broken. Therefore, we propose that wages in public institutions be fixed at the only fixed or high-quality position or starting point; this is for the chairman or municipal administration or the director of the municipal administration. And I think that the salaries of the directors of public institutions, whose founders are local communities, should be tied to the salary of the secretary. All the other things, all the other connections are somehow inappropriate and are introduced into institutions, even in the same large institutions in different areas, including the different levels of wages, which I would say is totally unacceptable to the public sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	Here I would just explain that, in fact, this connection is paid to the Secretary's salary in some way unacceptable. There's also an explanation. I'm sorry. I don't have it. [[...]] In short, this is not particularly the case with small municipalities where this problem could arise due to the mayor's low salary. I can say that in these municipalities, in fact, these public companies for which this is being established are not, or are, the most co-founders. However, where co-founders are then, in fact, the highest wage of the mayor of all co-founders is already legally valid. It only works here for wages which, of course, do not fall under the law on the public sector wage system. For example, some public companies in municipalities and, say, a housing fund. Thus, we believe that these companies must be linked to the mayor's salary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Because no one wants to discuss Mr. Tank anymore. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	I don't think it's appropriate for these things to be tied to the mayor's salaries, because the mayor's salaries are much higher than the salaries of secretaries or directors of municipal administrations. The director of the municipal administration with high education in a municipality which has a public company is 6 or 6.4 with these supplements, perhaps 10, while the mayor’s salary may range from 5 to 9. It's simply a disproportionate. This is said to result in a wage difference of 100% in public enterprises. While the salary of the secretary or director of the municipal administration is significantly more balanced. So it's 6, 4 or 6, if there's no conditions -- it's another thing. The basic salary, however, is much more stable, much more specific than the salaries of mayors.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thanks, buddy Tanko. I do not see any more speakers for the debate, so we are moving on to the vote on the amendment to Article 13. Let's vote, please! There are 57 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 35. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 35.]] I note that the amendment to Article 13 is not accepted. I turn to Article 14 and the amendment to Article 14, which proposes a new Article 101a. Anybody want a word? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much again. Yesterday there were quite a few very good discussions that addressed the problems of the Roma communities. It was also clear from the discussions that not all Roma communities were included in the proposal, and there are many or some communities or municipalities where there are also problems with irregular Roma settlements and also with the wishes of the municipalities that these Roma problems be settled and that Roma are somehow brought into normal life. Therefore, we propose that municipalities where there are Roma communities should not be among those 20 municipalities, in order to establish complementary funds as well as for the basic group of municipalities, but by quota, according to the number recorded, and that this would somehow trigger the process of ensuring and exercising rights. I think that the mere provision of political rights is not sufficient, for Roma, if they want to guarantee their rights, as well as any other, must also be properly trained, educated and allowed to participate normally in life. Therefore, I ask you to support this amendment and allow all those who have this ambition to help the Roma communities to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you for your discussion. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mrs. Bitenc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I would just like to point out that this amendment has been tabled in such a way as to eliminate the text previously adopted, as it completely changes the text of the article as adopted in the second reading. In view of certain remarks made by Mr Tank, it might be appropriate to verify whether this is actually their purpose, or whether it is the intention to insert a new second paragraph into the existing text, which lists municipalities which have the duty to establish a seat for the Roma community.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you. No one wants to discuss any more, so we will go to the decision on Article 14 and the amendment to Article 14. We're voting. There's 55, 14 for, 39 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to the debate on Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We are moving to a vote on Article 16 and the amendment to this Article. We're voting. 54 Members present and Members voted 12, 37 against. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended this by voting on the amendments. On the basis of Rule 198(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs if the adopted amendments violate the mutual compatibility of the law. It's not. Since it is not, we can move on to making a full decision on the law. Mr Barovic wants the word. You have the floor. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you. I wanted to explain my voice. In the debate itself, there have been many inconsistencies and many comments, such as these and other content, based on Article 14, which gives certain groups of people privileges and certain rights, and this law is also irrelevant if this right is to exist on the basis of Article 65 of the Constitution, as we have heard, the status of municipalities has been misplaced. In short, it seems to me that such flat-rate adoption of laws is not possible, even at this point. Many of you have commented that the congregations are listed in article 14 in one way or another. I hope that you will also demonstrate your decision and your opposition when voting on this bill. I myself, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, will vote "against" because of Article 14, for which I still assess that he is discriminatory against all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you. No one wants an explanation of vote anymore, so we will go to a full vote on the law. We're voting, please. 54 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 9. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I find that the law has been fully adopted. Three conclusions have been proposed for this item of the agenda or this law. Proposals for conclusions. You have them in your text. And I am putting to the debate the first decision of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. Anybody want a word? Madam Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	Thank you. I would just like to point out what the minister mentioned yesterday in the debate that the government, when dealing with this issue, was in fact in some way contrary to this decision. The question whether the area of rights, i.e. rights, should be regulated by Roma in a specific, comprehensive, comprehensive law, but that the debate was in this direction, that it is possible, that much of this is already being regulated in the sectoral laws and that additional issues can be addressed through sectoral legislation, but not by the need for a single roof law. That is why I feel that this conclusion is, in fact, pointless or unacceptable to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you for your explanation. Anybody else want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I shall put the motion to the vote. We're voting, please. This is a proposal from the Socialist Party's Group of Members, which we have discussed. There are 48 Members and Members present, 12 votes against 34. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. I am putting forward a second proposal for a decision tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Anybody want to talk about him? Mr. Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	I'll be very brief. The decision would support, if it were not just a small amendment to the Law on the Financing of the Communities, if it were simply to write, as we all wish in all the discussions on local government, that the government should draw up a law on the financing of municipalities and then support it. But since it's just this part, I don't think it's worth it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you, Mr. Lavrinz. Mr. Squirrel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. The Group of Members shall adopt the proposal of its colleague Lavrinc with this addition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you, too. Can we go to the vote? Mr. Azhitch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I will support this decision, because it will be the third of those I know, which the National Assembly has adopted in recent years, that this will finally happen - not only for the Roma, but for all citizens and citizens living in local communities; one was in the previous term, we have adopted one when we discuss when we will establish new congregations, and I will support that, because three may help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you. Since the parliamentary group has changed the text a little bit, I will read it again: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to draw up the law once again" - right? So it was said, please, "the law on amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities, in which the financing of municipalities should be addressed in terms of identifying the specific situation and specific rights of the Roma community." Is that the purpose of your text? Are you staying at the original? Come on, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	I had previously, of course, accepted this somewhat sinister challenge from my colleague Lavrinz. However, I believe that it is necessary to adopt a decision that is in a manner that honors the National Assembly. This "once already" was not meant in the sense that it was directly written in the law. Mr Lavrinc discussed the need for a comprehensive amendment to the Law on Community Financing, which also addresses the issues discussed in our decision. And such a conclusion, I'm sure he'll get most of the national council.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Is this saying that we can put to the vote the original text of the proposal for a decision? We vote on that proposal. We're voting, please. There are 55 Members and Members present, 38 votes in favour, 11 votes in favour. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am also putting forward a third proposal for an additional decision on the proposal for a law supplementing the law on local self-government tabled by colleague Janko Weber and Andrej Fabjan. Does anyone want to discuss this proposal for an additional decision? Go ahead, Jez Juban. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	I'm just asking a procedural question. Didn't we just vote in that previous decision? Law on the financing of municipalities, which also examines the issue of the financing of the Roma community in the municipality. If we make the same story twice now, I'm in, but I don't think it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. The Law on Community Financing must certainly regulate this area. We know that the changes to the law will not be so fast because there are huge laws to amend the law on the financing of municipalities. However, the fact is that in 2003 there will be a need to take a more intensive approach to solving the Roma problem, and it is probably right for the government to consider the possibility of trying to provide additional funds already in the 2003 budget. This new law on the financing of municipalities will certainly be around in 2003.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	Thank you, Mr. Weber. No one wants to discuss it anymore, so I am proposing this additional decision to the vote. Let's vote, please! There are 53 Members and Members of Parliament present. It was 31 votes against 7. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that this additional decision has also been adopted. We have therefore adopted two additional decisions on the proposal for a law. I'm closing the 3rd item of the agenda. However, we have already done something today. We move on to 6A POINT OF DAY LINE - Treatment of points I/1, I/4 and I/12, points I/14 in part concerning the proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Kostanjevica on Krka, point I/24 in part concerning the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Planina, and points II/1, IV/1, IV/2 V/1 and V/2 of the Decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia No. 005-01/95-4/30 of 26.2.2002 (Official Journal of the RS, No. 18/02) pursuant to Decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia No. U-I-103/02-68 - EPA 540-III. The material was prepared by the Committee on Internal Policy of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the committee rapporteur want a word? Mr. Lavrinc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. My friend Rudy Mogue tricked me not to give him my good looks, and that's why I said, but one day I'm gonna make a change and come here. Otherwise, to avoid frequent trips to this speaker stage, of course, I do it from the bench. First of all, I would like to say that, as you know, the already mentioned decision imposed on the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court decision ordered the National Assembly to reconsider and examine certain proposals for the establishment of municipalities for various reasons. I do not think it is necessary to state what was involved in the proposal. The report you have before you first shows this. So, I will say, the task is to thank, on behalf of both the members of the committee and, in my opinion, on behalf of all Members and Members of the National Assembly, the professional service of our committee, which has struggled with various documents, papers and so on, so that it can prepare this report. Secondly, what I would like to say is that this time the local self-government office has come to our aid and has offered us professional assistance without any objection, which, of course, we do not have enough in this national assembly. It should be said that this area is covered by only one co-worker. That is why I think the most work has been done on these two segments, in these two areas. With regard to the report itself, as can be seen, the following should be said. So when we received this decision and the order - in a way - of the Constitutional Court to reconsider some of its decisions, as I mentioned, the Local Authority prepared a review at individual points from point to point and justified the reasons or detailed reasons which were already mentioned when the National Assembly first decided. It must be said that the discussion on the committee was also carried out by going from point to point and considering it in particular. As is evident from the decision proposed by the Committee to the National Assembly and you have it on the 16th page, as well as the decision proposed on the 18th page, the Committee has assessed that in any of these cases it is not a matter for reasons that would dictate a different decision than was taken at the time of the first hearing of these issues at the National Assembly. Of course, now, even if there were to be a retrial of this decision in the Constitutional Court, the Constitutional Court would be much easier to judge whether or not we did everything or not, because, for each case, everything that was "in favour" and, of course, everything that was "against" was said in the debates, and of course, the decision taken by the vote was finally taken. So, I have drawn attention to both conclusions, and we will vote on these two conclusions. On the 18th page, you already have a proposal for a decision to be taken at the end of the national assembly. I think that would actually be all that is necessary to say at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank the rapporteur, the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[Not at all.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. A colleague, Janez Podobnik, on behalf of the SLS Group, applied in writing. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! As an introduction to the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, I would like to quote the final point from the attached separate opinion of the Constitutional Judge Dr. Fischer, who says: "The game is entirely at the beginning. The procedure in still open cases will have to be carried out in a procedural and substantive manner, a proper decision will be taken and duly explained, whatever it may be." The Constitutional Court, in its decision and in its sentence in paragraph 4, stated: "The National Assembly shall, no later than 30 days from the date of service of this Decision, re-examine the previous paragraph of that proposal and assess whether they fulfil certain conditions by law and by law for the establishment of municipalities." The Constitutional Court has no doubt had a clear purpose in writing down this deadline, since it is also a time-sensitive issue. 18. The decision was taken, on 24 April we received it to the National Assembly, so it works on 25 April, and for five days we exceeded the deadline imposed on us by the Constitutional Court. The Committee has done a great deal of work in time, and it is not an honor for us to miss this deadline. It should be reiterated that the National Assembly, together with the Government, has failed to fulfil another task entrusted to us by the Constitutional Court in 1998. In 1998, the Constitutional Court found that the law in force laying down procedures for the establishment of municipalities was contrary to the Constitution in two articles and dealt with the issue of the procedure for the establishment of municipalities. It is a matter of the possibility of judicial protection, that is, in the procedure we are conducting today and we have conducted it at the previous meeting. And here's the legal void. This is very unfair to those who would have the right to take on our proceedings - to enforce judicial protection. The Constitutional Court's decision is a very interesting document from a professional point of view which, in our view, will have a significant impact on certain processes in the design and further direction of territorial, substantive and other conditions that determine the functioning of local self-government in the Republic of Slovenia. There is also a written thought in the material or report of the parent working body, which I myself have expressed at one of the meetings, because the working body has had to face this issue three times, because it was a very complex question that the Constitutional Court decision is also interesting because, with certain solutions and decisions, it is controversial - with certain decisions of the Constitutional Court in the previous term. I would further sharpen that opinion and argue that some views were denied. This is mainly a challenge for the profession. Legal profession The current Constitutional Court has changed certain decisions of the Constitutional Court or their emphasis - a major challenge for the Slovenian constitutional profession! - on some issues, it opens new solutions, following some decisions by the previous Constitutional Court. The key finding of the Constitutional Court’s decision is that the legislator did not present compelling and understandable or reasonable reasons for rejecting individual cases for setting up referendum areas. So the expression is: convincing and reasonable. At this point, it must be said that the Constitutional Court, in our view, has taken on its tasks very seriously and has done what the National Assembly has done in the previous round too badly. All the elaborates, all the justifications for all the referendum areas is a very detailed study. So it went down into the content. The explanation shows that this has done very, very comprehensively and has been very attentive to some nuances that are undoubtedly very important. Of course, the Constitutional Court is also responsible for the Rubicon that it has, and it has absolutely stepped down, has only stepped into the area of substantive decisions. The Constitutional Court has this competence in our opinion. But it went directly to the House of State, which is legally competent to decide these matters. There's something else that needs to be found in this place. When we have carefully examined those individual cases, proposals for referendum areas where the Constitutional Court has not found that the National Assembly would violate the Constitution and that it has either correctly and convincingly rejected the reason for the referendum area, that if we compare some cases where it says that this was not the case, there is no logical enforcement. The Constitutional Court here has fallen into its own trap and it has in some way ruled arbitral. This place has taken on a very, very large responsibility. However, by its decision, it prevented those representatives, legitimate representatives or local communities or other environments that requested the referendum area from deciding once again. In particular, there is a sensitive issue of evaluation of exceptions. The Constitutional Court has entered the premises and evaluated what an exception to the limits means. In our view, this has made it lacking. And it didn't follow the legislator's purpose. The importance of the legislator, when referring to the reasons for exceptionalness in Article 13a and referring to the borderline, was, in our opinion, not least some of us were members of the parliamentary group co-forming this law - so the purpose of the legislator was different from that of the Constitutional Court. The same applies to regional or geographical reasons as an exception. The question is also the interpretation of the Constitutional Court when exceptionality is satisfactorily justified for historical reasons. The Constitutional Court has very carefully examined the laboratories and also some of the professional studies that individual applicants have annexed. It is true, however, that the Constitutional Court has found that one reason in itself is exceptional: either borderline, or geographical reasons, or economic or historical - in itself is not sufficient reason, but they must be further substantiated. In our view, therefore, we are now ahead of the task of first determining whether an area has the conditions laid down in Article 13 of the Law. Here it must be said that the Constitutional Court has followed the decisions of the previous Constitutional Court and has, in fact, justified some of the relative conditions referred to in Article 13 by very good arguments; this is a healthcare home, which is a library, or a municipal infrastructure. Here the Constitutional Court has in some ways upgraded the position of the previous composition and the previous compositions of the Constitutional Court. However, when the Constitutional Court has passed on to the most important question, that is to say, the reasons set out in Article 13a, which states that if the municipality has fewer or fewer reasons, [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] the area of less than 5,000, however, that these reasons must be given for the applicant to define their exceptionality, for which it would be justified to derogate from the condition of the number of inhabitants, such as borderline, geographical conditionality, historicity and in itself do not justify the use of the exception. This is also what the committee, with the help of the government - not the government, the services for local self-government - has leaned on when it rejects all the areas that the Constitutional Court has instructed us to re-examine. However, under these circumstances, there must be a reasonable conclusion on the specificities of such an area in cultural, geographical and social terms, which is also reflected in the characteristics of the historical development of the area. When we have carefully examined the elaborates, the Constitutional Court's decision, we find that there are quite a few cases of referendum areas that are fully following the Constitutional Court's decision. If Members and Members of Parliament today were to be consistent, all we need to do is to find out that a referendum is to be signed in some areas. This is, in our firm conviction, the task of the national assembly. In the debate, we will then come forward in some cases and we will try to further argue. We are wondering how we are going to do this, because we are going to decide as a political body - and it says so, because the simple exceptions that I was talking about, there is simply no political or professional consensus in the country of Slovenia. Not political, not professional consensus! Today we are Members and Members before the responsible task of evaluating these exceptions as a case-by-case policy and deciding whether they are such that some proposed referendum areas, which the Constitutional Court is talking about, should therefore have the conditions for a referendum to be held on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you for the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group. What other parliamentary group would like to give its opinion? I don't have written-in applications. The New Slovenia Group, Mrs Majda Zupan, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! We've spent some time on this subject, but I think we're going to have to do something else. After agreeing that you would change the practice of establishing new municipalities and establishing their territories and changing the status of existing municipalities and that you would not allow yourself to slip away, you also made this decision decisively, since the National Assembly of all 48 proposals for the founding municipalities refused, except for the future municipality of Šmartno near Lithuania, which it found to be worth more than 5,000 people, but in this case there was still a mistake. At the same time, it is not worth mentioning some cases of the exclusion of certain settlements from one congregation and the accession to another that they have succeeded in doing so. It is amazing that none of the 48 proposals received for the establishment of new municipalities would meet the conditions laid down by the Local Self-Government Act. You have hidden your responsibility behind the decision to reject everything, and with the help of the government's opinions and proposals. Such a decision is certainly not an honor to parliamentary decision, but it points to your relationship, shows your conviction and the fullness of yourself. Looks like you were afraid of yourself and didn't trust each other. Of the 192 municipalities established in 1994 and 1998, there are 91 such municipalities, with a population of less than 5,000. It is not the devil that in the third round of the establishment of municipalities there would be no appropriate one. This is what we Members of the Coalition of Slovenia have always warned about, and what had to happen has happened. The decision of the National Assembly was appealed to the Constitutional Court by 42 candidates for new municipalities, the local community of Martjanci for the designation from the municipality of Moravske Toplice and the accession of the Municipality of Murska Sobota and the municipality of Jesenice and Radovljica. The Constitutional Court took the time to examine all the documentation in detail, together with the Magnography of the meeting of the National Assembly. Such work, however, cannot be commended by the national assembly. In your reply to the Constitutional Court, you even stated that the National Assembly does not have an appropriate service that could process all the facts on the basis of the proposals under consideration and actually prepare the professional basis. The National Assembly, to be precise, the Internal Policy Committee has only accepted proposals and has barely managed to draw up a decent list. They did everything else at the government, at the local government office. As a rule, the government would expect only to give its opinion, which is also stipulated by the Law on the Establishment of Congregations, and everything else should have been done in the National Assembly, as this has been the case in previous years. The government has done something wrong too. Their product was full of repeated sentences, without originality and explanation, as we expect in such decisions, short, half-sided for each proposal, although most of the applicants have made an effort and submitted their entire laboratories. The government or local government office did not take the time to visit these areas and verify and supplement possible uncertainties on the spot. The explanation should certainly be broader and reasoned, as the Constitutional Court also points out in its decision. The mother's working body took a decision in the package and the secretary of state at the plenary took care of the legality and narrowly defended the decisions taken. The Constitutional Court states that the Government's understanding of the conditions for the establishment of the municipality is limited. In doing so, we think in particular of the criteria for health homes, libraries, utilities. We reminded the opposition Members of this point, but at the beginning of the mandate, we proposed to set up a special commission for local self-government in the National Assembly, as we predicted that there would be a lot of work that could not be done properly within the framework of the Internal Policy Committee. Since nothing had happened and the decision to reject all the proposals had been taken, Members of the Coalition Slovenia supported the decision to sign referendums in all areas and that citizens decided how they wanted to exercise the right to local self-government. The use of the criterion on the number of inhabitants is certainly a particular issue. This is, in the Constitutional Court's view, an important element, but this criterion must be taken into account within the entire framework of the conditions for the establishment of a municipality. These are, of course, historical, geographical, borderline, national or economic issues and, of course, the question of whether the congregation will be able to carry out its function despite the smaller population. In its assessment of the establishment of municipalities, the Constitutional Court divided the proposals into three groups. It has included seven proposals for the establishment of municipalities that do not meet the conditions laid down in Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government. In other proposals, the Constitutional Court ruled on Article 13a or on proposals for the establishment of municipalities in an area of less than 5,000 inhabitants. These reasons justify the establishment - they are based on the reasons given for the establishment of the congregation. In 26 proposals, it was found that the applicants did not sufficiently explain the existence of specific reasons. In the third group, the Constitutional Court classified 12 proposals, of which 9 for the establishment of municipalities, 1 for the establishment of a local community from one municipality and the transfer to another municipality and two for the status. In this case, the Constitutional Court also annulled the decision of the National Assembly. For all these proposals, the Constitutional Court finds that they fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 13 and the specific reasons set out in Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government, and the National Assembly has not provided compelling grounds for refusal. The government, as well as the Members of the ruling coalition, also after the adoption of the Constitutional Court decision, repeat that none of the 12 proposals put forward by the Constitutional Court specifically fulfils the conditions for a positive solution. We did not get the right answer to the additional questions addressed to the Committee to the Secretary of State, namely, what reasons there should be for granting an exception. For example, when asked about the proposal to set up the municipality of Višnja Gora, where the proposal itself states that Višnja Gora has acquired the first local authority since 1461, and even after the Constitutional Court's opinion that the historical reason is good enough for an exception, we have not received the right answer. On the question of the Secretary of State, what, however, must be the historical reason for an exception. We don't know what that would be. Otherwise, it is similar to other proposals for which the government and Members, as they have so far been, will be able to justify that there is not enough reason in these proposals to set up a congregation. The fact is, the Constitutional Court gave the National Assembly an earring, which will not make anyone blush, except to think about the work and demand responsibility. In style: what they can do to us, you will reject the solutions for which you initially decided, and you will not want to listen to the opposite arguments, but rather set your own criteria. In our parliamentary group, we will support all 12 proposals for which the Constitutional Court has annulled the decisions adopted because we believe that they meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities or for the change of status or for the removal from the present municipality to another municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	This was the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. Thank you, Mrs. Maja Zupan. This is followed by the opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. I'll introduce my colleague Igor Štemberger. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. The party of young Slovenia supports the creation of local self-government because it promotes democracy and allows the direct participation of citizens in the local community. Unfortunately, the entire system of local self-government was quickly put in place and left much to be desired, and the reform of local self-government was not fully implemented. At the same time, we have witnessed considerable arbitration in the past both by the government and by the National Assembly. For the reform of the local government of Slovenia, we can estimate that it has been too busy with territorial fragmentation and too little with functional aspects. It assessed the decentralisation of competences, the provision of financial autonomy for municipalities and the regionalisation of Slovenia. In particular, with regard to the formation of new municipalities and their competences, the reform went from one extreme to another. The previous network of large and stately affairs of overburdened communes replaces a large number of small municipalities that have been tempted by all the more important powers. Such a reform could not lead to the establishment of a local self-government compatible with the arrangements in developed Western European countries and in line with the European local self-governments enshrined in the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Now we are witnessing another extreme; we do not allow certain areas to form a congregation, even though all conditions are met. In the Young Slovenia Party, we have made it clear that package decision-making is inappropriate and irresponsible and that separate decision-making of each municipality is necessary in particular with regard to its cultural, geographical and historical characteristics. Proof of that is today's re-decision. We would also like to begin our efforts for the city’s congregations. The Constitution, in its 141st Article, and the Law on Local Communities, set out in more detail in Article 22, what the tasks and tasks of the municipal community should be and what should be done. In addition to local matters of public interest, which is the responsibility of each municipality, the city council, on the basis of and in accordance with the laws governing the individual areas, shall carry out, as its tasks, certain tasks under national jurisdiction relating to the development of cities. In this context, the municipal municipality shall, in particular, regulate public suburban transport, regulate the operating time of guesthouses in its territory, carry out tasks in the field of spatial interventions and construction of buildings, tasks in the field of geodesical services, provide a public network of secondary schools and higher schools, provide public health services at the secondary level and so on. These are tasks that some congregations have already done, or they can regulate immediately. Of course, it is also a matter of financial means, but it does not matter whether they go from the state level or are deliberately transferred from there to the city’s congregations. Today, 11 congregations have the status of the city congregation. Without prejudice to the development of cities and local self-government, at least 11 more could be obtained, and this would not jeopardise the policy of defining the landscapes. So far, due to the centralisation of the country, the inadequate attitude of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia towards this issue, some past inconsistencies and the incomplete political solutions to the development of municipalities have spread mainly horizontally to the number of municipalities, not to the vertical, the city, the municipal municipality and the province. Unfortunately, the practice so far proves that red tape spread faster in the center than at the edge and at the state level faster than at the local level and that money for the needs of people at the local level can quickly, meaningfully and conscientiously turn around, not only in the country. Public affairs can be dealt with more quickly, with more authority and with more money. Certainly in the Party of Youth of Slovenia we also believe that the interpretation of laws based on the current narrow political interests must be completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you for the opinion of the Young People's Party. I give the floor to Fran Sušnik to present the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we have not changed our position on the process of establishing new municipalities. We firmly believe that in all areas where people's will has been expressed, referendums should be held and what is the actual will of people to settle their local lives, of their own free will and of their own image. This is also the fundamental principle of the European Charter on Local Self-Government, which our country has ratified and which is enshrined in the Constitution. We are pleased that the Constitutional Court has confirmed our concerns expressed in the first decision and, in 12 cases, has confirmed the correctness of our statements when we have expressed our concerns about the proposed decisions of the government service, which have, in so far as possible, rejected all grounds for exceptionality within the meaning of Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. At that time, we warned that all were missing or that there were no criteria to justify exceptionality within the meaning of Article 13 already quoted. We have noted that in two procedures this National Assembly has taken this exceptionalness into account and has established 92 municipalities that do not meet the number of people under Article 13, and that this practice has suddenly changed without establishing criteria without amending the Local Self-Government Act. See, it is simply impossible to attach to the indications and confirm the proposals made by the working body in individual cases, although the Constitutional Court has warned that we have not sufficiently explained in the first proceedings the exceptionality or non-compliance of exceptionality, now in individual cases, when it is perfectly clear, that the proposal for the establishment of the congregation is still well founded or that the procedure needs to be completed, that referendums should be concluded, that the people's will must be tested in any way necessary to be rejected by all of them in a manner that is so pervasive and vehementally. We could not listen to the proposal or we could not see the proposals for the continuation of the procedure in the case of the congregation of Planina, but when the rest of the congregation of Šentjur is not able to come in any other way than through another congregation. At the very least, we should consider in this case what we had in mind or what the national assembly had in mind when it founded the congregation of Dobe. As a drunkard of the fence, we hold to the definition of 5,000 inhabitants despite the statements made by the candidates of the Municipality of Otočec, Šmarješke Toplice and their claims that this area covers more than 5,000 inhabitants. We are formal and hang ourselves on those 45 people who are missing in order to satisfy Article 13 of the Law on Local Self-Government. We could also cite these cases, and even in the case of the congregation of Rence Vogrsko, we are convinced that there are all the legitimate reasons for the proceeding to continue. Let me summarize for a moment. We will oppose all the proposals of the decision of the Internal Policy Committee and once again express our clear will to continue the procedure and call for a referendum in all cases in which we can still decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you for the opinion of the Socialist Group of Members. Does any other parliamentary group wish to present its opinion? Joined list, Mr. Miran Potch, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The legislation adopted on local self-government has, through the concrete decisions we make regarding the establishment of municipalities, and also through many decisions of the Constitutional Court, shown that many issues in this legislation or way of understanding have been left so open that practice has left many, many issues, ill will, I would say, large differences in approaches and also in practical solutions in recent years. This is not good because it is without the development of local self-government that it is difficult to talk about a modernly organised state and society, because there is no doubt that local self-government is developing a rich quality of life and democratic decision-making. However, it is certainly necessary, at least in the view of the Joint List of Social Democrats, that this developed local self-government is organised and implemented in a way that aligns and complements rights and obligations with one another, but not that it is sometimes independent and is expected, on the one hand, primarily of rights and on the other, to impose only obligations. Once again, I will not say much about this, that we did not have a particularly happy hand in the reform of local self-government. This is also due to the fact, at least after my knowledge, that we have approached the reform at the very beginning differently, that some of us at the time have very much stressed that the reform should be carried out at the same time in a functional sense, both in the funding system and not only in an organisational sense. In fact, we started and carried it out first by setting up new municipalities, and later we tried to adjust everything more or less successfully. With regard to the specific issues that we have today on the agenda, perhaps also because of the different understanding between the parliamentary groups of the approach to the tasks we have, I would like to express some of the views we have on our tasks and the way we have worked so far in the Joint List of Social Democrats. I do not believe that the assessments on the existence of an inappropriate relationship between the national assembly and the home labour body in dealing with these issues are justified or, to a large extent, are not justified. They can only be justified in those specific eleven or twelve cases in which the Constitutional Court annulled our decision and demanded our re-decision. In other cases, the work and decision in the Constitutional Court were correct. Therefore, it is not true that we did not make decisions on the basis of the specific data we had, and it is not true that we did not make decisions individually, each of us, but, of course, according to the criteria that he created Second. It is true that the National Assembly did not fully follow the decisions of the Constitutional Court to adapt the law to date. At the same time, it is true that, in a specific decision on the requirements for the establishment of new municipalities in this set of issues, the issue of the right to appeal has been solved in a specific procedure. Whether this has solved the best is a question, but he did save it, and if he didn't save it, we wouldn't be dealing with these specific cases today. He saved him in such a way that he gave the opportunity to the injured to complain to the Constitutional Court; they did so because they were convinced of their right, and many have been duly confirmed by the Constitutional Court, and many have not been confirmed by it. Therefore, I think it is right that, as we continue to supplement the local self-government legislation, including the issue of the appeal procedure, we should adopt decisions and supplement the legislation that this was not an obstacle to the mere correctness of the implementation of the procedure. Since the decisions are large and in some way everyone has engaged in a debate in the home labour body, perhaps today, to comment on these decisions, let me also say some of these views on behalf of the Joint List of Social Democrats. Firstly, our conviction is that the Constitutional Court has demanded a decision on the cases which have been dismissed and that in this case we have an obligation to reconsider, to be even more careful or to weigh all the arguments, in other cases not only do we not have this duty, but we also do not have this option. That is why I also believe that this procedure will be guided and that specific issues will be discussed and decided. Second. In our opinion, the decision of the Constitutional Court has undeniably given to those who have been warned that the National Assembly is in charge and competent, it is also said that it is only within the power to present a referendum where it finds that the conditions laid down by law are met. Where it finds that there are no legal conditions, the referendum may not be declared because it would otherwise be contradictory in its decision or would violate the law. This is important to stress that many Members and Members have come from a different logic, that they are already demanding certain groups of citizens and citizens or municipalities or local communities, and similarly require the National Assembly to call for a referendum, later when the referendum is called for and the results of the referendum are decided on or whether the municipality is established or not. The Constitutional Court explicitly stated this differently. I think it's so understandable and right. It also explicitly stated that the criteria must be fully respected. Thus, those basic criteria on the ability of a given territorial community to exercise the powers and tasks in accordance with the interests of citizens and citizens in this municipality, both those of the number of inhabitants and those of the complementary population, which can be adjusted because they are weighty, historical, developmental, geographical and similar, which can be defined by exceptions. I think this is an important conclusion that will make our work easier this time and today. I think that the Constitutional Court has made it clear enough that, while it is bad that the Council of State in its previous decisions has been inconsistent with its decisions, that it has not respected the criteria everywhere and that it is possible to find, after many previous municipalities, that they have been established without sufficient weighting of the integrity it requires. However, that "wrong" or decisions which did not sufficiently take into account the criteria in the past do not excuse the State assembly that it may or must do so this time. Reverse. Finally, this time, such an explicit position of the Constitutional Court, taking full account of the criteria, carefully considering them, obtaining an assessment of whether or not they have fulfilled sufficiently sound and reasonable reasons and acted legally and thus taking into account the decisions. I think we should stick to that in our decision-making. Because of this - this is the last thing I will say - it is possible, in my opinion, to read through the Constitutional Court's decision again; to understand that in the cases mentioned above, the National Assembly must re-evaluate whether the comprehensive criteria, as set out in the law, are fulfilled or not. The Constitutional Court did not say that they were fulfilled. And if anyone interprets it like that, I think it's different from what the Constitutional Court said. However, it has explicitly said that our decision is not based on sufficiently substantial arguments and that we must therefore re-examine or find arguments to confirm eligibility, or find arguments to refuse. Otherwise, in this particular case, in view of the procedure we have, we take note that the appeal procedure can be repeated and that we can also get back to saying, instead of 11, 12, maybe 5 or 6 or 1 and we will have to decide. So I think it is our responsibility to make this careful assessment this time. As far as the United List of Social Democrats is concerned, it will also try to participate in this in any particular case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you, colleague Miran Potč, for your opinion of the United List of Social Democrats. I do not have any other applications from the groups of Members, so I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. They signed up for the discussion with their colleague Yuri Malovra, Janez Podobnik and Ivan Bozič. In the meantime, procedurally, colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I have a procedural question about how we're going to handle this. I think it's very important that we agree now. If you look at - the Chairman of the Committee is not here - if you look at the proposal for a decision, the proposal for a decision is drawn up in points A, B, C and C. I think it would be useful to lead the process in such a way that we will have a debate and a vote on all 12 cases. However, I understand from Mr Lavrinc that we will vote together with point A, it is said that the debate will be held together for Gores, Bieseljska, Dobova, Višnji Gora, Kostajeva on Krka and Mountain, which I think is an improper approach. I would like to ask the Vice-President, together, if we find that, in the sense of due process and also in some way, we will warn the Constitutional Court that the procedure is important, so that it will be possible to discuss all 12 cases and then, at the conclusion of the debate, vote. I hope I understand the procedure correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you for the question, colleague Sponik. We have a scenario: to have a joint debate on the draft conclusions, which are on the 18th page of the material we have, but the vote will be on individual points, and, of course, an explanation of vote is possible for each point. Please, once again, Comrade Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	Mr. Vice President, that's not gonna work. A series of questions will be on a case-by-case basis, and then we will return to the vote in four hours. I believe that we should decide to open the debate on each case and to vote at the conclusion of the debate. If you do not agree with this, I would ask that we be defined by vote on this issue. If I understand correctly, we will discuss all these municipalities together; under point A there is 5, under point B there is one example, under point C there are three, under point C there are also two, three, which are very unrelated and I find this to be an improper approach and will be contrary to the good work of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that we discuss each case separately and, at the conclusion of the debate, vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	If I understand correctly, you suggest that we hold a general debate and then discuss the individual point and the decision-making. Comrade Sushinik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	Procedural question. On behalf of the Group of Members, I agree with Mr Podobnik's concerns and statements. We are of the opinion that all 12 cases should be decided separately, on a case-by-case basis, and all 12 cases should be discussed. Therefore, the proposal for a decision submitted by the Internal Policy Committee, which divides it into individual areas, is, in such a form, unacceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	I think we understand whether or not we understand each other earlier: the general debate of the parliamentary groups and some of the other Members who have been registered, then we go to the points and we discuss the individual points and we decide on the individual points. Excuse me? Yeah, about the proposal to that point. I think we'll have plenty to discuss. Does anyone object to this? Once again, Comrade Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	Mr Vice President, I'd rather take the first offense than the last one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	No offense. Let's find a common solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	Yeah. Look, I'm asking when we're going to have a general debate - I expected to go now, for example, to Gore and we're going to discuss Gorje, not reopen a general debate. I ask you whether this means that when we conclude, as you said, the general debate, then we will discuss together about Gore, Bizelljska, Dobova, Visji Gori, Kostanijevica on Krka, Mountain, and then we will conclude the debate and then vote on these individual five cases. I think that's the wrong way. I propose that we discuss each case separately and, at the conclusion of the debate, we vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	I accept this proposal if no one opposes it and then we will lead the debate. So, let's move on to the debate. I'm making a motion for a vote. Let's vote! We're too few. Comrade Anderlich, do you have a procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] I am making a proposal put to the vote again by my colleague Podobnik. Let's vote! The second vote failed as well. I spend 10 minutes as per the rules of procedure. Since it's 12:45, we'll continue at 2:30 p.m. with this interrupted agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	Your Honor! We continue with the afternoon session. I inform you that he is further excused for the continuation of the 16th session of 30.5.2002 Cyril Pucko, for the start of the afternoon session. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 53 of us present, the National Assembly is adjourned, and it can decide. In the morning part of the session, we stopped at Mr Podobnik's procedural proposal, on the proposal not to follow the proposal of his mother's working body, but to discuss and vote on each proposal for the establishment of a municipality separately. It's a procedural proposal. The undisputed working body suggested that we vote on each point individually, i.e. on each proposal individually, and that we discuss each proposal in the context of the general debate. Mr Podobnik suggests that we also discuss each proposal separately before the decision is taken. This procedural proposal will be decided for the third time since we failed to hold a valid vote in the morning work on this procedural proposal. The only difference is that there will be discussions on individual proposals before each decision is taken, and the undisputed work force has proposed that each proposal should be carried out on a case-by-case basis. We are voting on a procedural proposal. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 36 votes against 15. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate and, of course, to a vote on the proposed decision of the Internal Policy Committee. Even earlier, I am obliged to conclude the general debate because the three have been reported to the debate in relation to you to discuss further in the context of the general debate? [[...]] Mr. Sok, please. Mr Sok, given that we have decided to discuss each proposal separately, the three who applied for the debate during the general debate have waived this right because they will use this right on every proposal of the municipality where they would like to present their arguments separately. If you would like a general discussion, Mr Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	Thank you so much for saying that. Regardless of what has been said by the leaders of the parliamentary groups in the morning part of the debate, I would like to say that, however we try to explain either the vote in the National Assembly or the decision of the Constitutional Court, there is no doubt that it is clear, and the fact is that the State Assembly, by its vote and by its decisions in that country, has actually created two citizens. It is clear to everyone and everyone that, from 1998 until now, legislation in the field of local self-government has not changed in any way. However, in this national assembly, we have in fact implemented criteria that have not previously been taken into account in any national assembly. In Slovenia, more than 90 municipalities have fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. So this urgency, which the National Assembly has enacted this time, is evident in the great dissatisfaction of people who expect to have the right to receive their congregation after stopping. In addition to the dissatisfaction, of course, we can also talk about the fact that in the years 56, 57 and 58, the right of the independent municipality was taken into force by many in Yugoslavia. So it was some form of violent rule. If today we compare that, in fact, the national assembly and the government are not prepared to correct these injustices, then of course, it seems to me that we are doing exactly as the rulers did at the time. As far as I am concerned - I have waited for the Members to calm down a little - as far as the Constitutional Court ruling is concerned, which in some cases has found that the National Assembly has rejected the reasons for its failure but in others, of course, I am asking myself as a Member about the credibility of such a constitutional decision. I am convinced that among the other proposals, which the Constitutional Court did not consider to have been rejected without ground, there are several others which could have been found in a decision of the Constitutional Court and would have been a national assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	and should be decided again by the National Assembly. [[...]] Undoubtedly, such a proposal is for the Municipality of the Centre near Drava. I can tell you that this was the last municipality in Slovenia to lose its status as a municipality. To the end, she resisted, and then in 1958 she had to acknowledge the political arrogance of that time, and today she is experiencing the same political arrogance. So she didn't give people the chance to get what they once had back. If, in some cases, the Constitutional Court mentions some criteria of exceptionality, such as borders, historical facts, economic development and the like, then at least the same reasons apply to this proposal. However, they are not in fact mentioned in the decision of the Constitutional Court. I am convinced that this has caused great injustice on the part of this national assembly, which has so decided, to all those who have not been given this opportunity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much. As no one else wants to discuss it in the general debate, that is all I am concluding. We are moving in line with the procedural proposal for a debate and a vote on the proposed decision of the Internal Policy Committee. As has already been said, the proposal for a decision is contained in the Committee's report of 20.5.2002 on page 18. In accordance with the procedural proposal adopted, I would point out once again that we will discuss and vote on each point of the decision or proposal individually and then on the proposal for a decision in its entirety. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making under Decision A, which I first propose to discuss and decide point I/1 of the Municipality of Bled, the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore, the parent working body in the context of the decision suggests that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore does not meet the conditions laid down in the Constitution and in the law, as set out in the text of the decision. Point I/1 of the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore, I am putting to the debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll take a few more calls today. I will always discuss the material on the agenda. This is true of the proposal for a decision, the report of the working body, the decision of the Constitutional Court and the accompanying case-by-case laboratories. So there will always be a substantive debate. This is a question, a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore, as in I/1. It is very important that the National Assembly, when deciding, give a convincing reason for its decision. That is why this means that it is an integral part of the conclusion; we are now at Roman A, in point A/I, also his explanation. Colleagues and colleagues, this is in the material, not in the report, but where the proposal for a decision is, on page 5. I read very carefully the proposal for an explanation. My opinion is, on the basis of a review of the Constitutional Court's decision and the elaborate, that it does not fully follow the facts. And here's another question to ask is who's my interlocutor. Neither does the The government is not taking part in this procedure. In this case, my associate is actually a committee. It's the committee that's supposed to respond to my concerns. I would also like to say that, according to the information I have, the Government has not considered the Constitutional Court decision as a whole. Our ministers, the Slovenian People's Party, had no opportunity to express their views on the decision of the Constitutional Court. However, I am investigating the position of the government service or of the local self-government office. Is that right? So it's not about the government's position - it often says, the government doesn't, it wasn't the government. No decision was taken by the Government, no decision was taken on the decision of the Constitutional Court. The first thing that I don't think is following the truth is the fact that it says that the candidate for the municipality of Gore justified only the fact that it was a rounded local community. This is said to have justified only the geographical reason as an exception to Article 13a and the economic one. There is a very well-founded historical reason in the laboratory; if you have an elaborate, look at the very good justification for historical reasons. If we want to follow the truth, we must complement that the applicant has also written down the historical reason, and the law in Article 13a says that the historical reason may also be a valid reason for an exception. If we were to examine the content of the laboratory, we might also find that there are good elements, that the historical reason is also an additional argument to take account of the provisions of Article 13a. We have to fix this in explanation, because it's not true. It just doesn't say, even for historical reasons. Point 4 of this explanation mentions health care, library, drinking water supply, investments in sewerage networks and public utilities. It concludes with: "The new congregation should therefore necessarily provide its tasks together with the former congregation of Bled and Radovljica." That is the case, and the Constitutional Court’s decision expressly states that this is in accordance with the law. In the case of Gori, in my opinion, the Constitutional Court’s decision under point 24 states that this is an acceptable reason. This is therefore an additional reason to vote in favour, not against. Third time. The last paragraph reads: "In the Eliberate for the Establishment of the Municipality of Gore, under point 3.4.2000 - hospitality, tourism, the possibility for the development of tourism is highlighted in particular. It is a fragmentation of development potentials in a small space." Can I ask who got the idea that this means crushing? Let us look at the laboratory and the arguments that speak about hospitality and tourism. It's not a fragmentation, but it's a new developmental possibility. And it would be tourism for this municipality that would be a new developmental option. The entry "games to crush development potentials in small space" does not follow the content of the laboratory. I'd like to ask you what did you mean by that phrase that "games to crush development potentials in a small space". Here, however, I have a very detailed provision, i.e. in the laboratory that talks about this area. It is not a fragmentation, but a new development option, an additional argument that the economic aspect can be an exception. Then the argument concludes: "The Constitutional Court in the decision expressly states that the applicant must explain the exceptionality to derogate from the legal criteria." I didn't see the word "tough" in any of the laws of the Constitutional Court, but I understand it in substance, so with arguments. "It is not possible to establish a justification for exceptionalness from the re-examination of the proposed laboratory, which could justify derogation from the condition of the number of inhabitants." That final thought doesn't hold. From the re-examination of the proposalr's laboratory, we can justify the exceptionalness for which we can justifiably deviate from the condition of the number of inhabitants. Historical reason, geographical reason and economic reason. Before we decide, we need to get answers to these questions, otherwise we will have to make a decision. There can be no dictions in our explanations that are not true. I'd like to ask you for an answer to these questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. What the predecessor said is absolutely true. We have before us an example of a well-prepared laboratory for the establishment of a municipality, and I estimate that the electorate is of such quality that the National Assembly can follow. Not only in this decision, but also in the next decisions, we will face up to the concept covered by Article 13 of the Local Self-Government Act. This is one of the conditions for thefts to have a health home. Personally, I think this is one of the biggest mistakes the law has absorbed. In particular, because I do not know what it was like to build a health home in each village as a potential condition for the municipality to make this decision or to make it a decision. The country is currently dealing with health care as the most acute problem. However, under the conditions for establishing a congregation, we continue to stipulate that the congregations must have health homes. Personally, I find this so controversial and so contradictory that further decisions in these congregations should simply ignore this requirement. The municipality of Gorje, because I know it a little better or this requirement for the congregation, let me say that it has nothing to do with Bled except a road connecting both places. There's no way we can talk about tourism. When tourism took place in Bled with various sheiks, with various oil companies, gas producers and other very important, I will say, developmentally oriented people, they stabbed themselves with industry in Gorja, with wood cuttings, with a completely different topic, than tourism, whatever the sandwiches at Bled went to. Therefore, the request for the establishment of a municipality, on the one hand, is justified, very justified. That would give the place a special elan, and I think it would also be a very successful elan. That's why I think it makes sense for us to support her. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I already mentioned in the first discussion when the question was about the congregation of Gore, that the congregation of Gore was already this by 1952 when the reform was taking place and when the great congregations were established, as we all know them. I do not think that the Government's arguments here stand and follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, which has made it clear that certain cases which are accessible to the people of the new municipality of Gore in the vicinity cannot be exclusion criteria. Similarly, the number of inhabitants is likely to be from 1991. It is just a bill of lading and after this new count, after 11 years it is certain that the congregation meets this criterion. I don't think there are any other such criteria that we wouldn't meet. On the other hand, if you don't mind, let's have a little chat. I think that we are the only ones who know the situation in Bled and Gorje, and I do not think there is such a case where there would be such a consensus, both in the former congregation of Bled and in Gorje, that Goreje would become a municipality. Perhaps even vice versa, even in Bled there is even greater support for the new municipality of Gore. That is why I believe that we must take into account the will of all the people of the present congregation and that there is no reason why Gorje should not be his or her own congregation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, we have read this decision the way everyone wanted or read it, especially what is in the context of what the debater would like to say. Therefore, I will also read on page 15 of the decision what the Constitutional Judges wrote: "Unsatisfaction with the work of the existing municipality, merely predicting that the proposed area within the new municipality will develop faster economically, or that demographic threats cannot be considered a sufficient economic reason." So, if we're honest, then on the board we got the whole material as help. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	Mr. Lavrinc, just a moment. Dear colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	I'll calm them down myself if they don't stop because they're close.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	Under the rules of procedure, each Member shall have the right to debate in peace. It's my duty to assure you of that. So please, let's turn off the mobile devices and if you're really talking in such a way that you don't disturb the speakers in the hall. Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm gonna go back to where I started, actually. The material we received from the government office or from the local government office helped us. That's the first one. That is why we cannot talk about an official representative and so on and in this part the matter is wrong. This was a help not everyone would try now and peel out of the lab what it is, we got it as a help and on the basis of that or, I'll say, when faced with both the laboratory and what they hatched, we came to conclusions. The fact is that there was no debate on those things on the committee that we thought were properly prepared; that most of the time the debate was only when someone objected to the opinion that we had as an aid to decision-making. Therefore, it turns out that, as a matter of reasons, I will say, there was no justification against the establishment, but the reasons for the justification are justified because, of course, someone rose up and pleaded for such a solution, so that, for example, when we talk about the proposal to set up the Gorje municipality, the congregation could be set up. It has to be said that the committee on a particular case has also said that what is now an economic whole; that we have different municipalities in the country, after all, we have some unconstitutional ones; that these include, for example, the Kamnik municipality, if I give it, covers a city with its surroundings and a whole bunch of hills there. But with us, the difference is that every time I go to a debate in the National Assembly and we talk about these matters, I have to promise the Tuhinjs that they will not be their own congregation because they have no interest and they think that a congregation like this is good and better than if they had their own. And they have, say, 4,000, almost 5,000 inhabitants. Thus, there may be little emphasis on what was involved in our decision - making. However, the fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that if what has been specifically presented in the laboratories is read, if what we have been able to help us make decisions, then the logical conclusion of the defence that we have just decided is that we have prepared such a proposal for a decision. In addition, it must be said that the Constitutional Court did not say that now every matter - that is, that we must create a mosaic, the whole picture, not just to avoid now exceptionalness, I don't know, in one area, but not in another; this is all in some correlation. The decision on the committee, the majority decision, was that the municipality of Gore failed or did not justify sufficient exceptionality to allow it to be so called or proposed that they would allow it to become their own congregation. I was also so obliged to say this because, today, even some criticism at the expense of the work of the committee, I have heard that we sometimes take strange decisions and that it is not possible to link the decision of the committee and what was actually being debated there. That's what my colleague Barovic said, which is not here right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, here you go, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Now the congregation of Gore is the first. We are now pursuing our way of communicating on this issue. Comrade Lavrinc is here in some way in an awkward position. I agree. He is in an awkward position because, as a representative of the committee, he must answer questions that are legitimate questions. I agree, Comrade Lavrinc, and here the Constitutional Court's decision is clear. Dissatisfaction with the functioning of the present congregation cannot be a key argument that you are proposing the establishment of a new congregation. And I agree that we have to have the whole picture. In the municipality of Gore, it can be found that according to the decision of the Constitutional Court and in particular point 24, which refers to a health care home, the conditions laid down in Article 13 are met. So we're going to Article 13a. We have a municipality of 2 000 900 people. Our job is to study the possible exceptions carefully. In three areas, there can be, historically, geographically and economically. The first mistake that happened to you, I'm not saying that you want to, you forgot to list and in explanation write historical reasons that are a strong argument. I can read them for you. It is not only an argument, as stated here by my colleague, that the congregation was until 1945, but the first sentence. The region of Gorje was founded as part of the Austro-Hungarian monarchy in 1849, 1850. At that time, there were 101 larger congregations. And then very carefully, he detailed the historical reasons for the operation of the congregation there. This is an argument to examine the historical argument as a possible exception. That's the first one. Second question. This is a question of economic arguments. It's a matter of assessment. However, colleague Lavrinc, the argument that there is a fragmentation of development potentials in a small space is an illogical argument and is unfair. That's not in the lab. That's not true. However, I agree that when it comes to a geographical argument, things are very open. And this is where we have to make sure. There are certainly two arguments in which we weigh: historical reason and economic. I estimate that they have such a weight that we can peacefully approve the referendum area of Gore. The problem is, I have to get a reasonable answer. If I don't get an answer, it's gonna be weird. It cannot happen to us that we will ask questions that are important in the process and we will not get an answer to them and what we are voting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	Yes, Comrade Squirrel, I'll be a little rude, but I'll remind you of our board meeting. When you proposed to see for yourself when you came to the board meeting, I also approved it, just to make sure. When we resumed the meeting, you were gone. I'm not talking about this point right now. But you weren't even there to explain why the pause was necessary, why it was useful, and so on. But we know what point we were at back then. That's the first one. Second. This is now a matter of your assessment whether fragmentation of these economic potentials can be a developmental impulse or can be a developmental bar. I'm going to say that the compatibility of that landscape, the product that those thefts make, is, in my opinion, an impulse if we talk about economic development. Unless all things are atomized and we sell to each other. We make great traffic, but in this case it can also be one developmental impulse. I, myself, will say, have given up my faith that, as the Constitutional Court has written down, I should fully look, not only take one piece and talk about exceptionalness there, but fully watch. So, whether this extraordinaryness offered by someone "prefers" all the other reasons or all the other conditions for the establishment of the congregation. That was my motive to make the decision that I decided to make.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. I'm not a member of your committee that's very busy. Once I replaced a colleague, I suggested we had, I think, an hour and a half. When I came to the sequel, we were inconclusive. Unfortunately, in the following week, I was the leader of a group of friendships with Russia on a visit to Moscow, and I was unable to attend a meeting of your committee. This is not an argument for me that you're killing my questions that I haven't been to a board meeting as a non-member. However, in the second part of the replica you entered the substantive dialogue, which means economic reason as an exception. If you read section 3.4.10 Guestship, tourism, you would find here that there is an argument for plus, not for minus. As a matter of fact, this is a debate we have to make here most likely, I don't know where else. It says here exactly what the possibilities are in the area of tourism, which are now not working in this area. Their argument is that the autonomous community will be an impetus for the development of tourism, and this is justified. Therefore, I believe that this assessment, which is written in explanation that it is a fragmentation of the development potentials in a small space, is unrealistic and is contrary to the laboratory. That's why he doesn't have a place to explain because he doesn't. Above all, I ask that it be supplemented and written that the applicant specifically mentions historical arguments as an exception in addition to geographical and economic ones, and begins with this and has good arguments for this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Potch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I would like to say one thing in general, and two in particular, including as a different opinion or as an argument with my colleague Podobnik. Generally speaking, as far as I am concerned, where I do not speak, I agree with the arguments put forward by the committee in its report. I stress this for this reason, because there will be a discussion that the State Assembly has not discussed the arguments. The National Assembly, as far as I am concerned, will discuss and evaluate the arguments, even if they are not specifically mentioned, because they are listed and have been discussed in the home working body. But it doesn't bother me that someone can think about something else and, of course, we're discussing it. As for the second, there is some controversy with Comrade Sponik. I'd like to say two. We are obliged to formulate views on all elements that are important for the formation of the congregation, a valuable judgment, colleague Podobnik, but we can have different. And, say, you personally think that there are many reasons to respect the criteria of economic autonomy, I can say that the argument is that in a small territory, despite the fact that it is more about stationary tourism, somewhere else perhaps more about agricultural tourism, somewhere for mountain tourism, that it is better to deal with this complementaryly together than to share. And here we have a different value judgment, and we've both identified ourselves to the problem. Let us therefore understand that we can also have different substantive points of view on some issues and then we will decide that we do not have to say everything here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate at point I/1 - a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore. We are moving to a vote under Decision A, first of all I am putting to the vote point I/1 - a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore, of course in the context of the text, as proposed by the mother labour body, that is to say that they are not satisfied by the law and the constitution of certain conditions. We have two proposals for explanations of vote, first Mr Podobnik, then Mr Vnučec. Mr. Lavrinz, did you want to do the same? Excuse me, Mr. Sponik, if you'll excuse me, an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will not support the proposal of the parent working body that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore does not fulfil, as stated in the decision - just for a moment - that it does not fulfil that "from the re-examined laboratory it is not possible to determine the justification for exceptionalness which could justify derogation from the condition of the number of inhabitants. I will not support this conclusion and will not support this decision of the Internal Policy Committee. I won't support him for any more reasons. The first reason is because the Committee has ignored the legal provision of Article 13a, that there is also a possible exception to the historical reason and has not written it in any way. This is an important procedural error for me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	That's the first reason and argument. And I also find that I have not received a mercurial response at all to this warning. Secondly, I will not support this because I think that the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice has misinterpreted the provisions and arguments of the proposalers in the laboratory when they speak about hospitality and tourism. This area is important because of the second argument as exceptions, which is an economic argument. The argument that there is a fragmentation of the development potential in the small space and so on is contrary to the arguments put forward by the applicants. These are two arguments on which I will not support this decision on my own. I believe that the National Assembly would have a second option to find that both historical and economic reasons and exceptions of such nature are such that it could vote on the referendum area of Gore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Explanation of voice. What we are voting on, I will re-explain by reason of the vote. There have been quite a few votes here on the question of how and what we are deciding. Before we pass, I'll explain again. Vote explanation, Mr. Vnučec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. I think we are in a strange situation now that those who are in favour must vote against, but those who are against must vote in favour. I understand the procedural decision that we have voted by Mr Podobnik that we will in any case be in a positive direction. And if we are thinking in a positive direction, then it would be right to vote in a positive direction in such a way that we vote that we are in favour or against the congregation. It's not like we're voting now. And that's what this is all about. I don't think the Committee's conclusions are relevant now, but we should vote differently. If there are no other proposals, we will, on behalf of the parliamentary group, propose a recess to propose counter-decisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. May I have your attention, please? We have concluded the general debate, we are in the stage of explanation of vote. Let me explain again. On page 18 of its report, the home labour force proposes that the National Assembly find that, by law and by law, certain conditions for the establishment of municipalities or for the modification of their areas do not comply with the following proposals and then follow the order. We have now held a debate on proposal I/1, this is about the proposal of the Municipality of Bled on the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gore. Whoever supports the proposal of the parent working body, that is, the finding that it does not fulfil the conditions, votes in favour. Anyone who does not support the proposal of his mother's working body is voting against it. I hope it's clear. That's what we're gonna do. The same concept will apply in each debate when deciding on each specific proposal of the congregation. The parent working body for all proposes to the national assembly to find out that the conditions are not met. Mr. Potts, an explanation of the voice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Madam Vice President, I agree with you. In order to avoid misunderstandings, I would advise that every time we vote, we read and say, "I suggest that we vote on the decision that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Gorje does not comply with the Constitution and with the law of certain conditions. Let's vote on this proposal!" To make that clear to everyone. But if that seems too much to anyone, because I can see that some of you are turning your eyes, I'm afraid there'll be misunderstandings later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u142	Thank you. Well, the ones you've been paying attention to, I've mentioned this at least a few times. But really, just to be clear, I'm gonna do it. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are going to vote on the proposal of the home labour body to the national assembly to find that it does not comply with the Constitution and the laws of certain conditions for the establishment of the municipality of Gore. Let's vote on that! Let's vote! There are 69 of us in attendance. The vote was 39 to 29. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the proposal of the mother's working body has been adopted. We are now moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body to find that the law and the constitution of certain conditions do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Bizellsko, which is listed under I/4. I am opening a debate on this proposal, and we will also then decide on this proposal from the parent working body. We will then discuss the Age and the decision-making process. I am opening a debate on this proposal from the parent working body. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Just for a moment about this proposal. What was previously stressed that all conclusions were written in negative form is symptomatic. All the conclusions, all the direction, all the energy, all the arguments in the text are aimed at finding the reasons why the Daferendum areas do not meet the conditions. That's the first time. So far, we've been looking for a positive option, but this time it's all written down. That's why we have these paradoxes, this double loop, that those who oppose must vote in favour and so on. The municipality or the referendum area of Bisely. At this point, it must be recalled that two and a half months ago, when we first decided, we experienced the fact that once the National Assembly had found that the legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality of Bizeljsko and the key element was borderline. In a few hours, however, this legitimate and legal decision of the national assembly and its majority turned into a negative one and there is no call for a referendum area. This was not an honor to the National Assembly. Biseljska has 1,874 inhabitants. The Constitutional Court’s decision also states that the government was most likely to be misled when it mentioned that there was no healthcare in the area. It was later found that in the field of this referendum area there is a health station and so on. I must admit that it seems strange to me that we will also write as an argument that the laboratory is modest and that it only covers 4 pages. Colleagues and colleagues! The length of the elaborate is no criterion, but an argument. Please! Do not smile and remove this unusual sentence you have written. That's not a constitutional category. The length of the laboratory is not a constitutional category. I'm asking you to step away from this explanation. And last but not least, if you have read carefully, the argument of limitliness is crucial in Bisell. I have already said on behalf of the parliamentary group that the Constitutional Court has tried to interpret what a boundary is. In our view, the Constitutional Court has very narrowly interpreted the argument of limitations and has not followed the intentions of the legislator. When it comes to borders, this is point 27, it says: "Which are, because of the natural mountains or artificial obstacles - the state border, practically cut off from the other areas of the municipalities in which they are now located." The legislator's intention wasn't that. Here I am convinced that the government's argument in the previous round, when it said that 2/3 of the municipalities are borderline, that this could not be an argument at all. That's not true. Our service is our greatness. The border determines us. The limit criterion is that territories at the border have special living conditions. This 4-page long elaborat and complementing this is also written, in what way the local community of Bisell, which is surrounded by the natural whole, if you went to see the map, is a natural whole, cooperating with neighbouring municipalities in Croatia. This is an additional argument for the limit criterion. As a rule, municipalities in the border band have a problem with infrastructure and development and the establishment of the municipality can be an additional stimulus for development. That was the legislator's intention when he mentioned the limit. It is in the national interest if the legislator so decides to take account of such an interpretation of the criterion of limitability, rather than merely an explanation of the fact that the state border becomes an artificial obstacle, thereby effectively cutting off the part of the municipality from the other areas of the municipalities in which they are now located. If all interpretation were in force, then I don't think there would be any Slovenian municipality, maybe Osilnica, that would meet this criterion. I estimate that it is necessary to correct the reasoning and the wrong sentences to withdraw from the explanation, as they can become an integral part of the new proceedings in the Constitutional Court or in another body. Out of respect for the work of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr. Squirrel, I'm very displeasing to you. We're in a role right now - you're defending that up there, and I'm defending that down there and I'm basically the devil's advocate. How cute it is to plant flowers when a person can also plant something populist, completely legitimate, I won't say anything about a platter. See why the legislator even wrote down 5,000 inhabitants - not because there is a weight overhanging somewhere, but because we have estimated that only such a large community, of course, is larger but exceptionally smaller, can perform the tasks that the Local Self-Government Act sets out in Article 21. That's why we decided, because somewhere there's a limit to that. And we don't act like a fence drunk, we never, ever behaved like a fence drunk, just those numbers. That's the first one. Secondly, about what needs to be exterminated as extraordinary. Here I'd say we have quite different views. I don't think you can just hang yourself on one point, like you tried at the previous point, just on this piece -- this is the limit. Yeah, of course, it's borderline, but tell me what's gonna work worse, so what's gonna affect it or better, what's gonna affect it. For example, if we set up a congregation in Bizell, what more will they have than this limit? They'll have nothing left, and they'll have nothing less. And why it's written that there's only four pages of the lab because someone said that there. When the report is written, it must not be fictitious that we, I don't know, spent half an hour or three hours fighting there and fighting for our opinions. No, that was mentioned and it's in there. We can't write this down now, so if we wanted these explanations to be richer, it could simply be copied, of course, the material would then be even more extensive, copied everything we had available when we decided. I'm really in a very ungrateful role here, especially because there are friends of mine in Bizellia and friends of my friends there, and that's the devil. But in fact, Mr. Podobnik, we are talking about a piece of our beautiful Slovenia, which in the opinion, and also after reading the explanations and listening to such and different ones, does not meet the conditions to live a life of the local community. And this limit does not help him to be treated as an exception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you very much. A brief replica of my colleague Lavrinz. It is not about friendship, but it is about the task of the legislative body, which must carry out its task in accordance with the law and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Secondly, criterion 5,000, as the Constitutional Court's ruling states, and here fully follows the decisions of previous Constitutional Court calls, is not an absolute criterion. That's why we have Article 13b, or Article A, where we go for exceptions. Why did I mention the length of the lab? Because this has been recorded in that explanation, at the end of which it states that the Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Bizellsko does not meet the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality. The argument, the length of the elaborate must not be written in. This is an integral part of the explanation. The Constitutional Court has said that there is a need to make a convincing argument. Just a question of boundaries or exceptions. If you look at the decision of the Constitutional Court, this is number 38, one of the longest to touch the municipalities of Bizellsko and Dobova. The Constitutional Court states that when assessing the applicant’s material, it does not say that it is only 4 pages or that it is a short elaborate. Do you know what he's saying? These include, in particular, a cross-border reason which is more detailed in both proposals. That's what the Constitutional Court says. But it's not that it's incompletely reasoned or that it's only on four sides. The Constitutional Court also says. In the event of the establishment of the municipality of Bizeljsko there is also a geographical reason, dislocation from the center of the present municipality and the specificity of economic development, wine growing and related tourism. That's what the Constitutional Court's decision says. Answer me that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u149	I'll do my best. I'll do my best. I'm sorry, Madam President. With regard to my remark about my friends, I only thought about the part because now we're in roles, someone who's defending, and someone else who's against it. And I said that, of course, my role is much harder. First, look, you've hanged yourself now, say, for example, if I give, the specificity of economic development, and then we have in our armor, vineyarding and related tourism. Tell me where there's no wine growing in those places and there's no tourism. So, now I have to take this for granted, because here the Constitutional Judges have written it in explanation, why, say, do they point out what should be said in particular? No, I don't take it as a saint, and no one forces me to do that. After all, the Constitutional Court is a negative legislator, so we've always understood, so I think that what's written here is enough. You have to look at this, this is a report on what was going on there, and it is in the first place written that it was prepared for each Member, in fact, by the Government Office for Local Self-Government, and that this would be enough for a decision. And let's leave four pages.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Mr Sok, then Mr Podobnik. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you so much for saying that. I personally think it is totally irrational here to discuss any arguments for the establishment of a congregation, because with the same words that we have heard here many times, all these arguments will also be rejected. If I look at this vote on the first proposal for the municipality of Gore, it is clear here that the Members of the LDS and the United List and DeSusa voted against the establishment of the municipality. I'm just looking at this problem from a political angle. These are, in fact, the parties who are the heirs of that saving party that has abolished these congregations and therefore will not acknowledge and, in any way, do not want to be restored to them the right they once had. So the matter is purely of a political nature, not of course of some professional, historical, marginal or other criteria. That way, I see no point in discussing these matters in such a broad way, because here, in fact, everyone is already convinced how they will vote and every debate is completely illogical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much. As a Member, I do not agree to the thesis that everyone is sure how they will vote. I don't agree to this thesis. The MPs have to fight with arguments. This debate reminds me of a case that is not the best, but it can be very significant. When we vote on a new Member's mandate, who would have the money, who has all the conditions for a Member to vote against. If you have no argument to reject the exceptions proposed by the Constitutional Court through legislation to take them seriously, then you must vote in favour or abstain from voting. This is the correctness of the parliamentary decision. Comrade Lavrinc, exactly, it's not about taking one argument as sacred, that's exactly what the Constitutional Court says, that we should view it as a whole. I'll give you an argument about the municipality of Bizeljska. Look at point 27. The proposer must justify their exceptionality, which would justify a derogation from the condition of the number of inhabitants. Limitation, geographical conditionality, historicity alone do not justify the use of an exception. From these circumstances, it must reasonably conclude on the specificity of such an area in cultural, geographical and social terms, which also reflects the characteristics of the historical development of the area. On the basis of the Constitutional Court decision, when it mentions a cross-border reason, geographical reason and economic development, we can reasonably assess that this means for this referendum area to affect their specificity in both cultural, geographical and social terms. There's a whole body breathing like a congregation. As a whole, these exceptions give us arguments to support this. You gave me an argument that I object to your explanation to hang myself on just one argument. As a whole, there are three of us here, giving us reasons to vote in favour of the Bisellian referendum area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u155	I'll be very brief, don't be afraid, colleague and colleague. Look. It is not possible to avoid, Mr Podobnik, in some ways also arbitrariness, each according to its capabilities. Here we have, say, some things presented. And now I weigh them. Are these the reasons they're offering me are that I'm going to make an exception. I'll be subjective. My behavior, my knowledge of what is proposed here, my behavior about what they have prepared for us at the local government office, convinces me of the opposite and I will be arbitrary. But in the end, it is up to you to make a decision, and that is decided by voting. I'm sorry. And it doesn't have anything to do with any party, and neither does Titus, so I'll comfort Juice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u157	In some things, I don't like this debate, or Mr Lavrinc's argument. Rather, arbitration is true, we have the right to it, but the Constitutional Court has given us this clear indication that we have arbitrarily arbitrated. The suggested argument, why to reject Bizeljska again, seems a little ridiculous to me. I would mention again, although Mr Lavrinc may not want to, I would mention these four pages again. In fact, that certainly can't be the reason. If there is a reason, then I ask the government, the government representative or the committee, the chairman of the committee, whether the proposer has been invited to complete his role, because nowhere does it say that he must have an explanation longer than four pages. I would like to ask when the candidate for Bisellska was invited to complete this role. If he hasn't completed it, then we'll have a different conversation. But if he wasn't invited, then that probably can't be the reason.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I said that's why look, these four pages are mentioned here in the report. [[...]] And it says, let me read, it says that she's a representative, because that's wrong because she wasn't a representative of the government, but she was explaining the material that the office had prepared for the entire laboratory to have only four pages. That's what she said. That's why it was written down. That's why I asked you not to hang yourself. Look, we also had a case where there was an elaborate, fat, really fat. Ellaborat stood, I think at the time, they said 300,000 or 600,000 tolars that it was done by the former Minister of Local Self-Government, and we made the same decision. Despite a rich laboratory, it was either a conclusion or a conclusion and the decision was exactly the same. That's not how it works around here. Please! That's why I said don't hang yourself on this four-way. No one, I'm sure, when he made a decision, if he read and studied these things a little seriously, deepened or somehow tried to meet the requirements of the Constitutional Decision, he did not hang himself on the fact that the Ellaborate was only four pages long. After all, we can have dissertations, which I don't know how long they are, but they're less valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much. In the case of the municipality of Bizeljsko, I would have called at some principle level, although I agree with my colleague Soko that the debate and all decision-making are entirely subject to political reasoning or the political decisions of these parties sitting here, but these government parties who have taken a firm decision that in Slovenia must remain areas that will remain forever undeveloped, which must not have instruments, so that they can decide their fate more quickly. And one such case is, of course, the municipality of Bizell. We know and have many instances that comparative municipalities have taken a huge step out of underdevelopment over the past four, eight years, to improve their infrastructure, to give their inhabitants some comparative development opportunities; to move their trade, industry and so on, because people felt that they could influence a fraction of their destiny. And these many educational, extremely successful cases are many in Slovenia. And this is the completely comparable congregations with Bizely, which are not borderline congregations. However, the municipality of Bizeljsko, Bizeljsko is in itself the concept of indevelopment in Slovenia. The municipality of Mountain near Sevnica, from the same area of Kozjanska, is in the same position. From the same area, the areas of indevelopment, there are two other municipalities which, unfortunately, were overlooked by the Constitutional Court and, in my opinion, have been left out in some strange way - the municipality of Poljčane, the proposed municipality of Poljčana, and the proposed municipality of Makola, both from the border Haloz, Kozjanska, abandoned Dravinjska Valley. No one can convince me that the proposed Polish Congregation does not meet all the criteria, but if it was a district at the time of the former authority, the district was long after the war. And now the representatives of the same parties, the successors of the same parties, claim that these congregations do not have the conditions to be congregations. Then you raised them to the districts, of course they had a special function - the municipality of Poljčane was a notorious district in those days after the repression and imprisonments. But if she was doing some things, you have to admit them today. However, you take in the same context all municipalities, Bizeljsko, Mountain near Sevnica, Poljčana and Makola. Obviously on this page you want to keep areas and reserves in Slovenia where you will always be able to draw cheap labour, humble and humble, working from where you can get humble domestic helpers who will not be able to come to a comparable job because of the indevelopment of your home. I'm protesting against these criteria. I am also surprised that this time, despite the preliminary decisions of the Constitutional Court that all have to have the same comparative rights, this possibility for many municipalities, including these municipalities and Poljčane, for example, Poljčana, the reason that the remainder of the municipality in which 30 thousand people remain small is absolutely not true. And on the other hand, gentlemen, the Slovenian public will recognize the duality of morality in these cases. And that's your political damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, Mr Jerovšek, many times in his debate, of course, comes from the scope of the debates allowed. Three of you raised your hand for the replica. I very much ask that in the work where there were indications that did not help in our argumented debate, the arguments for the decision on the proposal of the decision of the parent working body to nevertheless refrain from such replicas. Who, please, insists on a replica that makes sense and helps make decisions? Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate at point I/4. The debate will be particularly about the Age, now only about Bisell. We are therefore moving on to a vote on the proposal of the home labour body, which proposes that the State assembly find that, by law and by law, certain conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of their areas, it does not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Bizeljsko. We will vote on this proposal of the mother's working body. We're voting. There are 70 of us here. The vote was 39, against 28. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it that the proposal for a decision has received support. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on a proposal for a decision with the same content that I do not repeat myself too much because we are in the stage of discussion on the proposal for the establishment of the Dobovo municipality, which is also in the second part under I/4. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. When I have studied all the texts and also the material of the Constitutional Court, I estimate that the case of Dobova is one of those who really meets all the conditions to establish the referendum area of Dobova. The period has 2876 inhabitants, so the Constitutional Court only finds that due to the relativeity of the number 5,000 we are going to search for legitimate grounds for exception. As the Constitutional Court also notes the proposer, the remaining part of the current Brežica municipality will meet all the conditions so that it can continue to function as a municipality. On the basis of the decision, there are redrafts which do not appear in these formulations and which are offensive to the applicants. It reads "four years old laboratory by which the applicant justifies the reasons for the establishment of the municipality is considered insufficiently substantiated". I have a lab in front of me. Ellaborat was formed by an expert group in which he participated, I think, eight representatives. Ellaborat is one of the best labs we've ever had in the National Assembly. Literature and resources, 20 books or 20 sources. Well, not just that. The applicants write down very correctly because the conditions set out in the Ellaborate, which our local community produced in 1997, have not changed significantly. Please take into account the above-mentioned and accompanying laboratory. The correct position of the proponents and, to put it mildly, the incorrect attitude of us to write a four-year-old elaborate. That's pejorative, that's a negative. Absolutely incorrect to the proposer. Absolutely incorrect to the proposer. A very important element of the congregation and the constitutional concept is the awareness of the belongings of the municipalities. This is what the Constitutional Court's decision is talking about very clearly and builds on the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is clear in the elaboratory and additional texts that a consultative referendum was held several years ago in the area of the referendum area of Dobo, attended by 62% of the countries and 74% were held for the establishment of a new municipality. This is one of the best additional arguments that we are voting here for or that we are opposed to the Committee's weak and unrealistic explanations in the decision. The Committee's opinion states that history is poorly founded. I also read somewhere, I think in the report that the applicants also mentioned, I think that the position of the government representative, including a particular book that speaks about the history of the Dobova. This is an additional argument and not a counter argument. I note that the laboratory is convincing that Dobova has no doubt strong arguments about limitability, but also the Constitutional Court finds that it has good arguments about history and also about economic development. The area of economic development is shown on more than 10 pages very, very good quality. Colleagues and colleagues! Why would you vote against it when you have arguments to support this referendum area? We will be unjust to the people of the Age. We will be unjust to them.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Because no one wants any more. Thank you very much. [[...]] Dear colleagues and colleagues [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I don't want to move. Thank you for your words, but I feel extremely uncomfortable at this point also because now some kind of guilt falls, for this answer directly to the mother's working body. However, the mother’s working body used a substance made by government officials. And I seriously wonder what the value of these state officials is, if all of this is true, which I can follow today as an average citizen. I just can't understand what this government is like. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u167	Since it is already another congregation that builds or builds its hopes for a single congregation in a boundary position, a border situation, I would ask the proposer of this rejection position, when, in which case a congregation could accomplish that envisaged, the law provides for the exception that a local community may become a separate congregation, even if it has fewer than 5,000 inhabitants, if such and such interests are concerned. I'd like to know in which case that would be possible, because the law provides. And if such cases are, if they are envisaged, I would like some comparison for the Dobo, which of these conditions does not meet.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I/4, on the proposal for the establishment of the Dobova Congregation, I conclude. We will therefore move on to the decision on the proposal of the national working body to the national assembly to find that the proposal for the establishment of the Dobova municipality does not meet the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality. We will vote on this proposal from the national working body to the national assembly. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 41 votes against 27. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposal for a decision of the parent working body for point I/4, the proposal for the establishment of the Dobovo municipality, has been adopted. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body to conclude that it does not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Višnja Gora, referred to in I/12, by law and by law. I'm opening a debate on this. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u169	I would like to discuss the proposal to set up a referendum area of Višnja Gora from the Ivančna Gorica area. I would like to remind you of the first difference in these cases. There was agreement between the municipal councils at Gorja, Bizeljska and Dobov. There was agreement. And that should be an additional argument to support it. Now the first case in Visno Gora, the municipal council opposes this initiative. This information is irrelevant. Of course, it must be realized that the municipality of Ivančna Gorica is a new municipality after the reform of local self-government and it was probably a little harder to convince the municipal council to agree to proceed. Under the law, the procedure was then followed by the local community. It is again necessary to establish that it is a municipality which does not meet the conditions of 5,000 inhabitants, so it is necessary that additional or other reasons for the establishment of municipalities be appreciably assessed in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court. In explanation of the negative opinion of the National Assembly, it is stated that an elaboratory for the establishment of the municipality of Višnja Gora was also presented to the Chamber of the Višnje Gora, which was issued on the 520th anniversary of the acquisition of city rights. By the way, if we carefully examine the laboratory, we would find that it very well substantiates historical reasons. However, I admit that I was again disturbed by a phrase that misinterprets the position of the candidate for the congregation. He thus says: "The introduction highlights the great satisfaction of the establishment of the municipality of Ivančna Gorica and the successful operation of the municipality also in Višnje Gora, based on concrete data on investments in the city." This is a typical biased and cheerleading attitude. That's biased. On the contrary, I estimate that the candidates for the new municipality were so correct that, at the time of their elaboration, they also attached a chamber in Višnja Gora, where the editorial says that Višnja Gora has also worked well with Ivančno Gorica in the last few years. Nevertheless, they have the legal initiative and the right to decide on the new congregation. The material also states that the President of the Council of the Local Community wants good cooperation if the new congregation is established, with Ivančno Gorica. This is once again a biased and cheerleading argument. This, however, convinces me that in this case, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the government services, sought only grounds against, strictly, grounds against. He made a biased, far-reaching decision in the case of the Ages now, but biased arguments if the government has a political position because there is a coalition in it. By the way, the Slovenian People's Party has never agreed with the government's views that it is necessary to stop the fragmentation of municipalities in some political way. This is a political position that is foreign to us in our program because it is offensive to people. However, the National Assembly must not be offensive and biased, nor should such a dictatorship be recorded in its document. This is an additional argument for me that I will not support the position of the parent working body that Višenja Gora does not meet the conditions for the establishment of municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr. Podobnik. Mr. Sušnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you very much. As in the case of the municipality of Bizeljsko and Dobova, we have not received an answer as to how borderline these two proposed new congregations should be in order to meet the criteria of limitability, the question is whether this is the length of the border or whether it is something else. In fact, the local government service or no one gave an answer to this question as to what the limit is or how the limit is measured. This is the main observation that the Constitutional Court has also confirmed. I do not expect to receive an answer in the case of Visno Gora and in the case of Kostanjevice on Krka, what is so important, historical that we can justify the formation of the municipality or the continuation of the procedure, taking into account Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government. I don't expect this answer because I know that you had to write, by someone's direction, such arguments that are completely contrary to knowledge, because I can't believe that within four years all the science involved would change its behavior so radically. I don't want to be in your shoes today when you have to be quiet when you can't defend your views. On the other hand, I am pleased that these arguments are so incomplete that these grounds of non-compliance are so superficial that it gives all the applicants the hope that the Constitutional Court, after re-examination, will only find a reason to call for a referendum. I'm sure of that. Farsa, whom we are witnessing, is only at the will of those who oppose the reforms of local self-government, who fear that another tolar will leave this Ljubljana to the countryside. This I think is the most important and important reason for you to have made such a firm decision in this mandate and in this process and to prevent any formation of new municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much, Mr. Sušnik. I do not think that the criterion of limitation in the case of the proposal to establish the municipality of Višnja Gora is the one to which anyone should answer, because it was not only the criteria of historical identity. Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the parent working body proposing to the National Assembly to find that, by law and by law, certain conditions for the establishment of the municipality do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the Dobova municipality. Excuse me, Visnja Gora under 1/12. We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 70 of us here. The vote was 43 to 26. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I find that the proposal of the parent’s working body or decision has received support. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal of the mother labour body that the National Assembly finds that the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk under I/14 does not meet the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality. I am opening a debate on this proposal. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u173	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss the justification for the conclusion that the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk does not meet the legal conditions for the referendum area. This justification is based on misleading facts. I also note that even in this case, the municipal council opposes this decision. It is necessary to say this out of correctness. This area has 2702 inhabitants. It shall fulfil all the conditions laid down in Article 13. This is also noted by the Constitutional Court. However, the argument which is directly contrary to the dictatorship set out in the Constitutional Court’s decision then lurks in the justification. He says, in this particular case, there can be no historical argument, since the jurisdiction of the congregations today differs significantly from that of the municipalities during the period to which the applicant refers. However, the Constitutional Court makes it very clear that the granting of city status does not give the inhabitants any rights in the field of local self-government and by granting city status to the proposed municipality has not acquired any powers that they would have as a municipality. I believe that, of course, this referendum area has a very strong historical, one of the strongest historical arguments. Those of you who are historians and culturers will recognize the significance of this area in history. If she doesn't have one, tell her who she has. Well, then there's another discrepancy. The reason for the geographical rounding of the area referred to by the applicants in the laboratory as the reason for the establishment of the municipality is not sufficient in itself in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision. Yes, in itself, if in the previous sentence completely unjustifiably rejects the historical reason, then speaks of an argument that is very strong. It's geographical rounding, and that's a strong argument for this referendum area, you're saying that in itself there's not enough reason. First you deny one wrongly and then the next you claim that there is no reason for it. It's called joking and passing it on to the proponents. The reasons for this decision are wrong and it deserves not to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal of the national working body to the National Assembly to find that the Constitution and the law of certain conditions do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the Municipality of Kostanjevica in Krk, which is listed under I/14. That's what we decide. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 40 votes against 25. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the proposal of the national working body to the national assembly to find that the Constitution and the law of certain conditions for the establishment of the municipality do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Planina, referred to under I/24. I'm opening a debate on this. Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u175	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and representatives of the Local Self-Government Service! Speaking of Mountain near Sevnica, you should ask yourself as mayor what it is for me to support the division of the congregation. However, when the Committee discussed this, it certainly did not take into account all matters relating to this local community, to this unfortunate Mountain. True, the only criterion that does not meet is 5,000 inhabitants. However, as the last to join the congregation of Šentjur, it was not until 1954, and it was by force, by decree. Four years ago, they had a referendum and decided to serve as a congregation of their own, but then the national assembly did not support it. He supported the local community of Dobe, now the independent congregation of Dobe, which is much smaller. Then, last year and this year, they launched an initiative to establish their own congregation. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u176	Mr. Malovre, just a moment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I pray for peace in the hall. Thank you very much. Mr. Malovre, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u177	This initiative was also addressed and supported by the municipal council. This was also supported by the Constitutional Court after the complaint. Now let me say a few words, why does the local community of the Sevnica Mountain meet the conditions? Like I said, there are historical conditions. The second is a referendum already held four years ago. The third thing is, there's a school, a kindergarten and a library in Sevnica Mountain. The mountain in Sevnica has a health home with two doctors, a dentist and also a pharmacy. There's a bank on the Mountain; there's a post office on the Mountain, a firehouse. The mountain is also high. On the other hand, it has a communal circularity, because it has a separate plumbing and a separate cleaning device. Then he has rooms for a single congregation in the premises of the former congregation, where the local community now reigns. He has a strong cultural and sports life. He's got a healthy youth movement. And what matters most is the establishment of the Dobe Congregation, the local community of the Mountain no longer has access to the home congregation on a national or regional road, but only on a local road, by approaching the municipality of Kozje. Last but not least, even though it may not have weight for someone, it also has its dean and two parishioners. When we talk about 5,000 inhabitants, I would like to recall once again what some prefaces are. There are over 90 municipalities with fewer inhabitants than 5,000 and what we will suddenly say in the Mountain, but this cannot be, despite full compliance with all the criteria and even more than the law prescribes. Like I said, 5,000 do not have many, or close to half the congregations. There's something else I'd like to say. A number of fellow Members of Parliament had already been to the Mountain and gave them the hope that this would be their own congregation. At least I'm asking those colleagues to back me up. Unfortunately, there is no colleague of Diacia, who also said the last time on the municipal council of the congregation of the congregation of Šentjur that he would support. I hope that this matter or this proposal will be supported by his fellow Members from the Youth Party. I ask, on behalf of the local communities of the Mountain, that they support this proposal. Like I said, I'm in the weird role of mayor, who's kind of trying to break away, but on the other hand, I'm rooting for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any more, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal of the home labour body to ensure that the State assembly finds that the Constitution and the law of certain conditions do not comply with the proposal to establish the municipality of the Mountain. Let us vote on this proposal. Let's vote! There's 63 of us in attendance. 35 votes against 25. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are now moving on to the examination and decision-making of the proposals for decisions under point b. The Maternal Working Body proposes that the National Assembly find that the Constitution and the laws of certain conditions for determining the part of the municipality's territory and its accession to the neighbouring municipality do not comply with the following proposal. Under II/1, it is a proposal to designate the settlement of Martjanci from the municipality of Moravske Toplice and its accession to the municipality of Murska Sobota. I am opening a debate on this proposal and then we will decide on this proposal. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would draw attention to the opinion of the Constitutional Court that in the explanation of the decision, the Government cannot base its opinion on the conclusion that the municipality of Moravian Spatlice would no longer meet the conditions in the case of the expulsion of the local community of Martjanci and the establishment of Bogojina, which is no longer a problem. By expelling the Martians, the municipality of Murska Sobota or Moravske Toplice would still meet the conditions for the municipality. The village of Martjanci is in all respects connected with Murska Sobota, children attend primary school in Mursko Sobota, and also, let's say, this moment seems like a very, very strong argument. The school environment is Murska Sobota, and are connected to the municipality of Moravske Toplice. Most of the workers are employed in Murski Sobota. They are also linked by municipal infrastructure. The Constitutional Court is of the opinion that there is no compelling reason to reject this proposal from the legislative material; I cannot even excite it. I think the local community of Martians is really guilty. During these meetings, the National Assembly allowed the four local communities to fulfill their desire to leave the old congregation into a new one. I do not know why the Martians are a prisoner, literally a prisoner, a prisoner of the National Assembly, and this is not justified, either culturally or infrastructurally, or economically impossible to substantiate. The fact that there's an ambulance in the Martians, that's a very lame explanation. The Morav Spas have no idea how many institutions, medical facilities, and they will probably have an ambulance soon, but the infirmary stays in Martjanci, where they can continue to go to the examinations. The Moravian Spas would have 5,990 inhabitants, so that's not the problem either. I don't think we have a political reason not to let them go, nor an economic one, because it costs nothing; if we set up a new congregation, it costs something, but it costs nothing. I don't think we have the moral right to consider them prisoners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you very much. I object to this solution myself. Various local newspapers have already estimated that it is inappropriate for a member of the National Assembly to oppose the exclusion of the village of Matjanci from the municipality of Moravian Toplice. Today we are signing a referendum and not deciding on the establishment of a congregation. He's manipulating people in the middle, like we're already making this decision, and we don't know what could have happened if it had been. Last time I explained to this esteemed national council that the municipality of Moravske Toplice consists of one flat part and Gorička. And like any municipality - here you are the mayors and you know how it goes - it has begun to regulate first the flat settlements. One of these is the Martians we're talking about today. Now that some things are done - not all in these flat settlements will ever be resolved: sewerage, road infrastructure, lighting, sports centres, health care and so on - of course these settlements would need to be less invested in and invested in the settlements of Gorička, which have no problems and will never be solved. At one meeting, the general assembly where Soko and I were together was said, among other things, "We don't care if they don't have water in Gorički." I'm worried they don't have water on Gorički, and in the other part of the Moravian congregation there are settlements that don't have water. And at the cost of the congregation now, even at the expense of this settlement, everyone else in the flat work, which is at a higher level, would start to regulate things. You know half of Prekmurje is without water. When you got 120 liters, there were 12. Of course, we break some congregations so that those parts with developmental problems remain alone. I don't think that's good. Such solutions that we no longer care what happens up there, I will never support them. Let's try to speculate differently. As Mr. Podobnik says, with arguments. I respect Mrs. Possonce's explanation. I never said it wasn't decent, even those pages of submission. If the Matians go out, the congregation will be without a medical station. And Moravian Spas, which have excellent tourist development, will certainly organise their own. The question is, if Murska Sobota would only keep a health station for one settlement, which is just joining. The same is true of the local office, since the congregation of Moravske Toplice will have to organize the matter on its own terms for its needs. It won't be hard at all because it's as much space as you want. A third story that's very important. In Murska Sobota, unemployment is raging. We all know the Mure problem and are looking for every job on the periphery. Moravska Spas invest in the development of several million euros a year and, of course, also release jobs. A few ten of them are hired each year. The parishioners you are here are probably well aware that your citizens are asking you to hire a citizen within the municipality first in companies or any other company. And this, of course, will then also require the municipality of Moravske Toplice to take care of its citizens first within the development of tourism, which is taking place at Moravian Toplice. We could name it next. If this is true, the frequency of people in the village of Martjanci falls and all that commercial, hospitality offer that is there - probably suffers a certain amount of damage. I'm trying to present you with arguments on the other side. What we are talking about today will be much written in the coming days; but nevertheless, we need to see the other side and, of course, the citizens of the village of Martians, probably when we decide on the referendum, which is probably there uncertain, weigh what I am talking about and so weigh, please, also you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Possoncheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I think you're Mr. Juban, but now you're the boss. Because something to justify that one local community has to stay with us because of the plumbing in that community that it doesn't want to be in, it's too much. I would only say so much that the client promise in my eyes is valid for as long as I can vote so that I can look in the mirror the other day.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u185	Mrs Pozsonchev's answer is so much that I took water supply as an example of the problems in Gorički and, of course, now that more resources are being raised for that part, even at the expense of those settlements that are regulated in the plain; these problems are more: these are roads, these are village homes, these are also jobs if you want. And I don't think that's a good solution. And that's why I don't think I'm going to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Since there are no more notations to the debate, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body under B. In order to establish that the Constitution and the law set out the conditions for determining the part of the municipality's territory and its accession to the neighbouring municipality do not comply with the proposal to designate the settlement of Martjanci from the municipality of Moravske Toplice and its accession to the municipality of Murska Sobota. We are voting on this proposal. We're voting. There are 66 of us in attendance. It was 46 votes against 19. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the proposal of the parent working body, located under C, the proposal concludes that the National Assembly notes that, by law and by law, certain conditions for the change of the status of the municipality does not comply with the following proposal, which was tabled under Article 2 of the Law establishing the municipalities and establishing their areas which set up the territory of the municipality. In particular, under the IV/1 municipality of Jesenice. This is a proposal to change the status of the municipality of Jesenice to the municipal municipality of Jesenice. So he doesn't meet the conditions. I am putting this proposal to the debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u187	Thank you very much. In short, I would like to discuss the arguments that the current municipality of Jesenice has reasonable arguments that it can be decided to obtain the status of the municipality. It should be noted, secondly, that the Constitutional Court, in its decision, also stated: "The National Assembly did not specifically discuss the fulfilment of the legal conditions, not when it decided that the conditions were met, not the following day that it decided not to comply. The decision of the National Assembly, which is not based on reasons, is arbitrary. This is especially true in a specific case." The key issue in the case of Jessenic is therefore quantitative data. This is what the Constitutional Court is talking about, and this is also the position of government representatives at the working body meeting, and last but not least this is the subject of an elaborate and an updated elaborate. Base frames first. The Jesenice, together with the congregation, represent the geographical, economic and cultural centre of the area, which should be called Upper Gorenska. This is confirmed by the railway infrastructure, the connection with Primorska, Ljubljana, Austria, is a very developed cultural activity, theatre, sports activity and, above all, economic activity. In fact, the autumns were and are still the economic centre of Upper Gorenjska. Now we're going to make a key argument, which is quantitative data. The decision of the Constitutional Court and then the debate also stated that Jesenice was not a cramped settlement and that they did not meet the condition of 20,000 inhabitants. However, it is clear from the annex received by Members at this time during the Constitutional Court's decision that they represent the narrow urban area of the following settlements: Hrušica, Jesenice, Slovenian Javornik, Koroška Bela, Podkočna, Lipce, Kočna, Blejska Dobrava and the number of inhabitants in this narrow settlement, which has all the infrastructure and other urban elements of the village - 20.815 inhabitants. This argument is therefore. Autumns have more than 20,000 inhabitants. There's a second problem, a second condition. This is the number of jobs. The law speaks of 15,000 jobs. Ptuj has approximately 24,000 inhabitants and has 11,600 jobs of approximately 48%. Koper has 48,000 inhabitants and about 18,000 jobs, that's 37%. Ptuj or Nova Gorica has 36,500 inhabitants and 15,900 jobs, that is 43%. We've been elaborating data these days and it's up to date. Jesenice would be considered to have 21,600 inhabitants and would have around 34% of jobs from 7,400 jobs. However, taking into account the fact - and the Constitutional Court has stated in other parts of its explanation that it is important how someone plans to develop in the future - it is necessary to say that in the medium term the business zone of the Municipality of Jesenice is envisaged, that the construction of this area allows for both the assistance of the State and the European Union, where 1,500 new jobs will be created. This project is already under way. Thus, together with these jobs, the Municipality of Jesenice, as the new city municipality, would have 41% of the jobs. So I tried to justify that, given the quantitative data, the shrinking urban area has more than 20,000 inhabitants. and that this area, together with jobs in the crafts area, would have 41% of the jobs, these are additional reasons for us to support the decision to make Jesenice a city municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Aishovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u189	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u190	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u191	This is the second set of issues that we are dealing with today, and I think that even more difficult and important to think about, because any decision towards the establishment of new municipalities will lead to a plasma-like beach in Slovenia, of course, four years ago, and this year too, an ambition for the establishment of municipalities, regardless of whether conditions are conditions or not. Such a beach will be experienced in the area of the city’s municipalities. My colleague, Mr Trophynik, will surely remember, and perhaps some of you will remember that four years ago I put in my first reading when we discussed possible referendum areas of the amendment for a whole range of municipal municipalities, which have a lot of conditions under the law. Some people miss residents, some jobs, some don't have a hospital, some have a hospital, and so on. And when we go to look like this in Slovenia, of course, we find next to Jesenic, Krško, Kamnik, Idrija, Škofja Loko, Isolo, Piran, Trbovlje, Brežice, Ormož, Ljutomer, Lendava and more. All of these would have found a whole range of criteria for being a city congregation. All of them have or have, and we have always had, ambitions to become a city congregation. Of course, four years ago we found that this cannot be the case, and that my amendment was then rejected, justified, because even then I did not take all the places that could have been. However, I am sure that the law on local self-government in this part should be amended and supplemented. Today's debate should remind us that we have made some exceptions in the past, and the Constitutional Court rightly reminds us that if we have ever done anything in the past, it is not necessary to repeat it, but it is essential that we complete the law in this part. Firstly, it is illogical that we should call a referendum for an area where the congregation has already been established - this was logical in 1992, probably, or 1994. Today it should be a status issue and the law should define the conditions for granting the status - not the city, but the city's. And we got that promise four years ago, but nothing happened. All that has happened in this area is that the National Assembly has adopted a decision establishing, in accordance with the law, which cities in Slovenia have the status of cities; these, I think, 52 of them are not municipalities, all the rest are municipalities. Among the municipalities in Slovenia, which could be cities, there are a lot of settlements that do not have this status, for example Trebnje and, I don't know, could still be listed, but no one has made an effort to achieve such a status in the past. In short, I suggest to my colleagues that we reject these two proposals or vote in favour of the decision proposed by my mother's working body, but at the same time we realize that this area should be regulated and that we should probably find another level of municipalities in Slovenia - one that is not covered - these are municipalities where, say, former municipalities where administrative units or other regional units are established, and ordinary municipalities. Then perhaps it would be easier to discuss the establishment of some small congregations, which would somehow be linked and linked to these city centers, to these city halls, which are in fact already, but they do not have this status. So, once again, my debate is primarily about the need to redefine this area and re-arrange it with a legal novelty, so that by then we do not make any prejudices and, of course, let us also define ourselves by these two proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u193	Thank you very much. If we decide on the basis of the report and the data we have in the Committee's work, then I fear that we will have two incorrect data in this material and I would like to draw attention to them. First: it writes as regards the municipality of Jesenice, that the town of Jesenice has 13 thousand 634 inhabitants. I must say that to all of us, not only to me, Mayor Boris Bregant sent a letter on 20 May showing that, following the urban design adopted by the government, the government confirmed that the city settlements of the municipality of Jesenice included: Blejsko Dobrava, Hrušica, Jesenice, Kočno, Lipce, Podkočno, Koroško Belo and Slovenian Javornik, which have a total of 20 000 815 inhabitants. That is why I believe that this is a highly inaccurate case and that we should not make decisions on the basis of it, unless it is the wrong design of the city, with a graphic presentation showing that it is a fragmented and linked number of settlements and that we also have and have received in the review. Because if we decide on the basis of inaccurate data, it won't be good. And another such inaccurate information is that the settlements referred to by the Autumnians as common say: they do not form a closed urban area. I would like to say or have already said that the graphic presentation shows otherwise and that, above all, it is also reflected in the urban design confirmed by the government and published in the Official Journal. These two as a fact. And I suggest that we take these two facts into account in our decision-making. If we take them into account, we - in my opinion - will make mistakes and make decisions on the basis that can also be disputed in a later judgement. Secondly, what is only information, because I am aware that this second element, which I will talk about, does not have a key element for decision-making, because also Jessenice and then Radovljica should meet all the conditions. It is, however, a fact that, according to my review of the 11 municipalities we have, one does not meet the condition of the number of inhabitants today, and one of these conditions barely meets, we will see what this last census will give, according to 7 or 9 inhabitants, it may also be 15 or minus 15, but it will be at the border. And secondly, that 3 do not meet the condition of the number of employees, while one for some of these conditions goes beyond, which is again, in view of the fluctuation, possible to change from day to day. Once again, these are not arguments to say that we must make a different decision. There are, however, information that shows that we have some questions about the establishment and functioning of urban communities to deal with this issue as soon as possible. And this is also the thing that colleague Ašić pointed out, he with a different conclusion and the mayor of the municipality of Jesenice with a different one. However, I do not think that the current organisation is appropriate and that we should be able to identify ourselves for a degree within the framework of local self-government as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Rupar, Mrs Prašnikar took the floor as a replica or an explanation of the implementation of the data. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u195	Thank you for your word. Since it has been said that inaccurate data have been included in the material, I believe that it is necessary to explain how this information actually occurred or what it means. In fact, there is no doubt that the terms of the law are not fulfilled in this case, no matter what the urban design is in this city or in this congregation. In fact, the law states that the city is a larger urban settlement, which differs in size from other settlements. The Government's explanation, when this article was prepared, stated that the following characteristics were relevant for the city: continuous building, high population density, over-average population growth, the over-average share of the rural population and the increased share of daily migrants. This was stated in the explanation and this has also been mentioned several times in the Constitutional Court's decisions to the effect that this explanation of what is a city is important. Next, the law says that in the area of the city, that is, the city is an urban settlement - written in a single article - and the following article states that a city municipality is established in the area of the city due to the uniform spatial urban regulation. In this case, regardless of what I say, although such an urban base has been adopted, we are talking about the city, that is, one settlement with such a population. In fact, this raises doubts as to what is being said, because the data of the municipality of Jesenice mentions information for the wider area, i.e. for what is in urban design, not for that part that is today defined as a city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. So, talking about the urban design of the Autumns is nonsense, sorry. He who knows Jesenice knows that they are among the Sava Rivers and among the mountains, and this cannot be a circle like this national council, but it can only be a long, narrow settlement. So don't talk about some. It's unrelated. [[...]] It is urbanism which consists of natural, given conditions. Done. But there's something else I'd like to say. In this context, we decide about the congregations that would like to become the city’s congregations. Why at least three proposals from Gorenjska for transformation have appeared on everything beautiful, I will call it a higher rank. It's simple: because of the calculation, I say again, because of the finances, because it's very worth it. This National Assembly - I have already talked about this - has made a big mistake, but the government has also made a big mistake because it has not amended the bill on the financing of municipalities to deal with the National Assembly. Because we have not done this because we have not transformed this money or done something more clever than it is, of course, all the mayors, regardless of the client, are looking for the best way to get as much money as possible, of course now on the basis of asking us to transform the congregations, or to establish new or larger congregations. I support everything; let every mayor have all the honour, whether it be the United List or, I don't know, New Slovenia, whatever it is they've come up with. I'll just illustrate it with numbers. See, Ljubljana, with 50 billion budgets and 250,000 inhabitants - very round, but plus a few percent - receives 200,000 tolars per capita - so much the budget divided by the population comes to 200,000 tolars. Step forward, the city municipality of Kranj, 7 billion and a half budgets in 50,000 inhabitants, 150,000 tolars, is already per capita 50,000 less. I'm going to see a colleague in Zagorje, a colleague in Zagorje gets 100,000 tolls per capita. In Tržič we receive 74,000 tolars, it is said, three times less than in Ljubljana a resident who, in my opinion, needs just as good as the resident in Zagorje, Tržič, Kranju. This difference appeared in a very stupid, sorry, community financing law; if it were not, we would not be talking about it today, but we must. And this National Assembly has this task of supporting the efforts of citizens, mayors and all these municipalities to obtain more money in this way, unless, of course, it is not a matter of fear again, whether they would accidentally disrupt the state budget or not. However, this does not matter in this case, it is irrelevant. And I would also ask, on behalf of all, to support and give at least a handful of these congregations the opportunity to satisfy the needs of their citizens in such a way that they are far greater in ease than they are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Two replicas, first Mr. Potch, then Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go, Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u199	There is only one explanation for you, because all the discussions with the Secretary of State about this have already taken place on the working body. We refer to various articles and paragraphs of the law, and I claim that we are all right. I'll read you the one I'm referring to. This is the second paragraph of Article 16: "The municipality is a densely divided settlement," I stress, "or more settlements," not only one, but also "or more settlements connected to a single spatial organism and the urban environment." So, more settlements and urban areas, too. It is therefore different to answer that there is only one settlement, as stated in this second paragraph of Article 16. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u201	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate my colleague, Rupar. First of all, I would say that I agree 100% with the majority part of his debate, only with what he was urging us to do - so with his invitation to allow this to the mayors and, of course, the people of individual municipalities, even with the decision of course, which would be contrary to the law - but not with that work. In fact, I would remind you of one very interesting one and, in my opinion, for the first time from the Constitutional Court, the thought is written: it is not possible for an authority to require that, because of the principle of equality, equal treatment, it violates the Constitution or the law, or otherwise, to require it to decide illegally even in future if it has done so before. And we did so, not just in these city halls, but elsewhere. Hence, we also have an illegal or unconstitutional situation regarding a city congregation. That's one. On the other hand, I would say that when you decide how to act, I advise you, see if you can recall Mr Willi Trofenik's discussion. What does it mean, then, to be a city congregation or what the city congregation should be? This was a committee debate. She's cute. It would be good if there was a little bit more of that in there, but anyway, it would be possible to see from the magnetogram which direction she was going. It did, however, measure in the direction of the decision taken by the Committee on Internal Policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Schvagan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u203	Thank you, Vice President. Replica to my colleague, Rupar. I can say that his debate was extremely demagogous or abused our collegiate discussion. We both know that the principal in 2002 is about 76 tolars. It is said that every citizen or citizen is equal. This will now depend on the law on the financing of municipalities adopted by this Parliament. But I would say only to the People’s Party, only by supporting the establishment of the city’s congregation and speaking of an honest party would I support their proposal if, of course, we presented the other municipalities meeting the same conditions as Jesenice. And let them not only abuse one proposal, but as honest people present, completely, a proposal in the Slovenian space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Because no one wants to discuss it anymore, the debate - I apologize, Mr Trofenik, a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u205	Replica goes to my colleague, Rupar, because he was misrepresenting the data in some way. And I would ask him if he could fix them himself, especially as far as his congregation is concerned, because there is obviously something wrong with having only less in the Market than the principal in the law. When it comes to comparisons with Kranj, however, it must be said that the city municipality of Kranj is among the municipalities of the "greatest poorer" - under the terms - because appropriate consumption with income is at least covered. And a little bit of what he was saying, but the information is positive that he has relatively much of his own revenue above that. It's similar to talking to Ljubljana. There is no comparison of 200,000 talking about Ljubljana with seduction. It is necessary to compare appropriate spending and income. And Ljubljana has 50 billion budgets, if that's true - I don't know. But I do know that income is about 23 billion income and that the difference is at the expense of their own income from different things. Thus, no actual consumption data in any congregation can be presented unilaterally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. I also allow a replica of the funding of the municipalities to Mr Rupar, because, of course, he started this debate. Then I would really like to ask that there is no more debate on the level of municipal budgets. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u207	Thank you very much. So there's no confusion, I'm not talking about proper consumption. I talked about the budgets that the municipalities have: with the appropriate use of plus with my funds, and I shared it with the number of people. And I came up with 50 billion divided by [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I hope you understand. [[...]] I also used the same term in Zagorje, the same term in the municipality of Kranj and also in Tržič. And even at Tržič. Excuse me! We cannot talk about an equal situation if there is a municipality in a social, economic crisis much larger than Ljubljana. We cannot say and cannot say that there are equal inhabitants there and that the budget per population per municipality is exactly the same as in the other congregation. It's not working. Ljubljana just collects more than Zagorje, Jesenice, Tržič from the title of the building land fund because it can do so because it has a good economy because it has investments in this municipality. Sorry, they're not in the periphery. I was only talking about the fact that we are in an unequal position under this law on the financing of municipalities and that perhaps the niche in the financing of the congregations is precisely the move of those congregations that now want to become city congregations. And here's the niche. But this niche has to be, so we have to give them a chance to take advantage of it. But if someone was accidentally hurt, maybe just because I was unclear. But I didn't want to fool you, not at all. Once again, I have divided the entire budgets with the number of inhabitants, and I have received these figures, which are completely credible and rightly stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u209	My friend Rupar! You used a statement or term "gets", but instead you should use "get and create". That's a big difference. If you share all the budget on your head and you tell him to get it, then it's the wrong conclusion, like someone's giving something to somebody. In fact, it goes -- right here, you come across when you're explaining it, but it's something else: part of it gets it or through the income or through the financial settlement, and part of it creates it. Rather, each in a positive sense must do what is necessary in the given circumstances. There's no injustice here. But if you end up a little mean, you might conclude that you do not create anything in your congregation or that you even have a negative result because you have less on your head than is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I think that the explanations in the direction were correct and explained, and I have already announced that this is the final replica on a topic that does not serve as a contribution, so that we can make a reasoned decision on the proposal to change the status of the Municipality of Jesenica. If anyone wants to talk about it again? No, then I conclude the debate and we move on to a decision on the proposal of the parent working body that the national assembly adopts a decision and finds that the proposal to change the status of the municipality of Jesenice to the municipal municipality of Jesenice does not meet the constitutional and legal conditions for a change of status. That's what we decide. We're voting. There are 70 of us here. 41 votes against 27. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 27.]] I understand that the conclusion of the parent's working body has received support. We are moving on to a debate on the same content of the decision for a proposal to change the status of the municipality of Radovljica to the municipality of Radovljica. I'm opening a debate on this. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you for your word. I will be brief, because the debate under the item where we have dealt with the Jesenice was very similar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u212	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Mr. Grandchild, just a moment. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I ask you kindly to give the speaker peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u213	Thank you for your word. Nevertheless, I would explain something, namely that I think that Upper Gorenska deserves to have a city hall and that the National Assembly should set out Articles 16 and 16a. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] interpreting more broadly, as he had already done and also referred to several cases where the meeting had done so. [[...]] And our representative of the parliamentary group, when he gave the opening address on behalf of the parliamentary group, said: Indeed, there are 10 such congregations as Radovljica or Jesenice. And they would all deserve the status of the city’s congregation because they are already performing these functions, but they do not have the proper status. And even if we followed the Constitutional Court's view and made reasonable use of certain positions that have been defined by certain decisions in some municipalities, we could see that Radovljica in this context also fulfils, irrespective of the Government's position, the condition is that the status, as the criterion of the number of inhabitants comes from 1991, is also urban fragmentation, as my colleague Potrč has already said, is relative, because if communications are appropriate, we cannot talk about urban distribution. However, the number of jobs is contrary to the population criterion, as this criterion is impossible to meet with the criterion mentioned at the outset; it is said to be a population criterion, and this is a very special criterion which is a discriminatory, exclusion criterion in this case. Not to mention the historical reasons, since the Radovljica Congregation had already won a city seal in 1514. So - if we are honest here - we can see that Radovljica meets the substantive conditions. It's true, not formal, but substantive. It also fulfils certain conditions or tasks on a wider scale: it is the administrative centre of its gravity area, it is the seat of the district of justice, if you like, it is also the seat of the largest deanija in Slovenia, the national sanctuary, and it has the Roma centre of Slovenia; it also has a hospital, otherwise more specific. However, taking into account the criteria of the Constitutional Court, these services are not far from being accessible to the inhabitants of the municipality of Radovljica. The same applies to higher education studies that are only 5 kilometres away and specialized studies. It is the seat of cultural institutions, and not to mention other matters. I appeal to the National Assembly to support the efforts of the municipality for the municipality of Radovljica and to fill the empty space currently in this upper Gornje region. I think it is wrong to assume that only the municipalities can be the future headquarters of the provinces, which is the tendency at the moment. We believe that this is a legal predecessor, so we also call on Members to support the proposal or, in this case, they must vote "against" because it is such a decision that we are voting against the Committee's decision that Radovljica does not meet the substantive conditions for the municipality, given that we have already adopted a decision in this National Assembly a few months ago that Radovljica meets the legal conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u215	Well, I hope you won't confuse me this time so much that I'll vote the wrong way again, just like I did at the Jesenics. That is why I am officially apologizing to the Jesenites and to all those who were against the decision earlier. Otherwise, I would like to ask you to re-vote so that someone does not accidentally take advantage of this for negative purposes, but I know that the result would not change substantially, so let it be. Again and again, the appeal for the town hall of Radovljica. If urbanism has been disturbed before, this path of urbanism must not interfere, because Radovljica is what someone imagined in his head that this is a beautiful round thing, like Kranj - Mr Kacin. Regardless; therefore, all the arguments that were said about why the city congregation of Radovljica were absolutely true. Of course, we all hope that in the coming legislation that will regulate the regions, this will be part of the centre of a upper essava region or a mountain region. Kranj will, of course, receive the status of the city congregation or the center of the region perhaps in other forms than he imagines. Therefore, I will speak for myself, I will support this proposal by voting against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss any further, I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the home working body that the State assembly notes that the constitutional and legal conditions for changing the status of the municipality do not comply with the proposal to change the status of the municipality of Radovljica to the city municipality of Radovljica. Let us vote on this proposal. Let's vote! There are 65 of us in attendance. 34 votes against 27. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on point C, which is the proposal of the home working body to the national assembly to find that the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of municipalities or for the modification of their areas do not comply with two proposals. First of all, we go to one: a proposal tabled under Article 3 of the Law establishing the Communities and setting up their areas defining the areas of the municipalities. First of all, I am putting forward proposal V/1 of the municipality of Nova Gorica, namely a proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rence - Vogrsko. Here we have three reported for discussion. First Mr Christmas, then Mr Brejc and Mr Mamić. Mr. Christmas, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So after four years, I'm back in the process of establishing new congregations. Four years ago, we had a slightly different situation, even though the beginning is exactly the same from four years ago and today. At the beginning of the establishment of municipalities in Slovenia, Dr. Vrišer wrote that they should be established by 249. The first round was 147, then 45, and from the proposals and initiatives this year - 36 proposals - 23 initiatives - the government service did not support any. It's a little weird. We did it here in the hall. Here in the hall we reached Šmartna near Lithia. In fact, there is nothing good about this country if all of us suddenly conspired against local self-government. Another thing I'd like to say. At the part where Yugoslavia came into existence in 1947 or we are now an integral part of Slovenia, we were not most excited about the establishment of new municipalities. Remember the division of the Koper Congregation. Four years ago we barely got through the congregation of Šampter-Vrotojba and today there is only one more proposal, Rence-Vogrisko. Of 32 percent of the area of Slovenia is only one proposal. Don't you think it's a little weird? And yet it has no support. When I read the explanation on page 37, which says: "The Constitutional Court in the decision explicitly states that the applicant must explain the exceptionality to derogate from the legal criteria. The reasons must be of exceptional importance; the circumstances referred to in Article 13a are not sufficient. It is not possible to establish sufficient reasons from the re-examined laboratory prepared by the applicants, on the basis of which we can justify exceptional circumstances which could justify a derogation from the conditions of the number of inhabitants, although in that case there is a minor derogation from other cases." I think there's only a lot of deviation or evidence. The Municipality of Renche has existed for 146 years. From 1814 to 1960, when due to higher goals it was incorporated into the great commune of Nova Gorica. She survived Centralism of the Imperial-Kingdom of Austria, Fascist Italy, Zone B, Yugoslavia, part of Yugoslavia, and we deny her any right to have a single congregation. The second point I would like to stress is on page 13, the explanations we received. "The question is being raised whether economic development is truly so remarkable that it could be justified in comparison to other proposals. It is not possible to establish sufficient reasons from the laboratory to substantiate those exceptionalities which could justify a derogation from the condition of the number of inhabitants." 4 thousand 100 people have this proposed new municipality. However, in this proposed new municipality, 98 % of the employment is. Which municipality in Slovenia can boast about this? Very little. I'm sure they'd be listed on one hand's fingers. But we refuse and say that "there must be special exceptions." The dictionary of the Slovenian language says: 'except', first of all, 'which does not match, does not conform to the general and ordinary.' Nice, so whoever's good can't be around, but there's got to be an exception, you gotta be bad, then you can be good. I think it should be written that the rule that anyone is just enough can be a congregation. And this is the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko. And why are we rejecting this? It's true to me, I have to say, one big puzzle. What's wrong with that? The rule is, if you're good, have something. If you're bad, you probably don't need everything. That is why we, in the parliamentary group, support that the decision of the parent’s working body is not taken, for if there is one, then this congregation is most needed to obtain its status. Talking about the whole sea of other things is very, so, for the hair attracted. But things that are obvious, we don't want to see them. In addition, there is a decision of the Council of the Municipality of Nova Gorica to agree with the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko. How is it that none of these things can be accepted as good? Against the will of men, against the will of the city congregation, we are against all things "against". Sometimes one thinks that we have conspired and that we will not have new congregations in this mandate. We could still have them, you know. We'll have them. We won't be here. And we will support the proposal for the establishment of the congregation that I am now quoting. I think he deserves to have his own congregation. Renche-Vogrsko is responsible for this. If work has been organised in that area and people live well - why are we against it? A new way of life is coming to us. People want to work differently. They want to live differently. Let's forget what happened 30, 20 years ago. Today began or began a year and a half ago, a new life. And we want everything back the way it was. The big communes have collapsed, too, and they're going to fail. However, some new congregations will develop, perhaps even those that we have established may feel that they are not important. But these congregations, too, live well.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Mr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you very much. I fully support what Mr Christmas has said and, of course, I will not repeat it. I'd like to add something to that. The Ellaborate they prepared is probably one of the most comprehensive, which was ready for discussion in the National Assembly. It is possible to understand from these materials enough solid arguments about this exceptionalness, which they themselves stress, given that they do not have 5,000 but 4,100 inhabitants. So, the government is in this case and, I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen from the Liberal Democracy and the United List and DeSUS, they are very bureaucratic. It's not 5,000 and it's over. I think that, despite all that it is more than obvious that the government has said 'we will not give anyone this opportunity', it would be worth considering whether by blindly obeying your government you are not doing wrong to the people who live there. Finally, also a member of the National Assembly from this area, Mr Pahor, has received material like all of us, and last but not least, your mayor from Liberal Democracy is among those who agreed to make these places a municipality, Rence-Vogris. So, local factors, political factors, if I may say so - yours, this is your electoral base, not ours - they gave their consent, they said: let's give these people the ability to decide for themselves and develop. And now your Member, the Member of the United List, does not say a word in this National Assembly about his people who have elected him. They didn't vote for me there! The liberal democracy that has the mayor there does not support, does not support the people who have elected this mayor! Because he believes that these people are like that - I don't know, do you think they're like that for the moon, or what? But this is where they put it very clearly and transparently. Look, Mr. Christmas mentioned economic reasons. Among them is one important information: 700 million tolars will have budgets. This is an important amount that ensures that they function normally. Furthermore, let's say - this data is a whole bunch, I just have a feeling that you didn't have any interest in reading it - the municipality of Nova Gorica with this work is actually less suited to being a city municipality, is more like Koper, because it has too much rural work as well. Then between these geographical concepts, I think it is worth stressing the argument - that is, the government's response is talking about some connection with Novo Gorica. Look at the map, and you will see that these connections are no longer there, because there is another congregation between Nova Gorica and Vogrški-Renčami, and they must go around the bend to come to Nova Gorica. That's what it says, it's perfectly clear that it's for the hair. Why is she attracted to her hair? Of course, because the command was by the government: we do not give anyone the status of the new congregation. And now there's proof that you're not interested. You do not care about what we say; you do not care about all the will of the people there; nor do you care about those who were there or who were elected there. Which, of course, is another proof of what I am saying all the time: the ignorance of this power towards people is infinite, and we see it now at this local level. Then I would mention, say, one important fact from a European point of view. The building municipality, Rence-Vogreska, has the possibility to participate in European projects under the Interrega programme. And here they have a project worth EUR 600,000, which is already ready in the original design, but it is in the peace phase - and why is that? - because the municipality is not prepared to pay those initial 10,000 euros because, clearly, this is not a city, this is a periphery for the municipality of Nova Gorica. So, through what we say today, "Yes, let it be a municipality," we would have made it possible to use the funds for one - it is good, but it is a small municipality in Slovenia. But please, it's 600,000 euros. Well, let's just say that's all you want. Because they really prepared this well, and I also made sure that this is true. Because I was beginning to wonder. Let me just say this in the end. See, about half of the population of the present municipality of Nova Gorica has no representatives in the city world. The municipality of Nova Gorica does not fix this situation. He doesn't want to fix it, I think. Because it doesn't create more electoral units. If we had created a larger number of constituencies, then these people in Renca and Vogrska would have at least the chance to have their own saint in the city world. And there's no such thing! I think so! I really beg you, I know that - because I have told you what the situation is, and we see from every vote what it is. But let's think about it! Only 100 people are missing, maybe less are missing now. Maybe there's some more in work, as they say, I don't know. But please, let's give these people a chance to local self-government. Let us help them to develop because they obviously have all the potential for outstanding development. If we say it again on the government's command or you say it, it will again be one piece of evidence and the government's arrogance towards people, and I don't think that this simple conduct, even in Parliament, will be appropriate. It must be shown that Parliament also has its own view of the matter and that members of the government coalition have their own opinions on matters. So, I ask for support, and when we vote, we vote for this assembly to be established; this is what we say, "against". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you very much. And another unrestricted debate, Mr Mamić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much. Of course, my "exposure" will be considerably shorter because the speakers said everything I was going to say because I didn't know that the three of us were going to discuss the matter. Maybe there are some things I'd like to add, Mr Brace said mostly what I'm most interested in. But, for example, just by having 98 percent of the congregation’s employees, that’s one proof that people are good enough to work, that they have the potential, that they have all the conditions to continue developing. I would like to highlight another element here. And this, by setting up this municipality, will help Slovenian demographics because we know what it is like. And the municipality will certainly develop in this direction because it already has 230 entrepreneurs who are successful entrepreneurs, they have almost 4 million per employee, I don't know if it is anywhere else in Slovenia. They also have a million 700,000 per capita and so on. So they have all the conditions that they would also be developing to help with this country, because the country will also benefit from them, so that they will have more tax. So the very attitude towards the municipality of Nova Gorica is unlike that of Kopra, as Mr Juri said last time, the municipality of Nova Gorica is not in the interest - I do not know why otherwise - but it is not in her interest to develop. And then, because people don't have a motive, they can't give as much as they can give. Thus, if they have their own congregation, they will surely do much more than they are now doing. If we do not support this congregation or this proposal, I do not know what else it is possible to support any other thing in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much. A replica, Mr. Parallel maybe? It's a debate. First, he spoke to Mr Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. We had just met with arguments or perhaps an interpretation of the law that defines the terms or conditions for the city council when we discussed the Jesenicas. If we go into the existing state of Nova Gorica and the urban whole of Jessenic, then it is quite clear who has it here, in the right sense the right relationship from the law out that the city congregation is. That is why I do not see any weakness in putting the municipality of Gorica in line with the law in the right dimension of the city congregation, even if this new congregation is now formed there, sooner than later, of course, it would also be the case that Grgar Čepovan up from these hills to a different substance, such as that of the city congregation. Let's just drop it. The fact is that this congregation has a marital view, without any particular blinking, of the immediate substance to confirm through the laboratory and through that tiny missing portion of up to 5,000. No problem, the municipality of Nova Gorica will reduce its bureaucracy slightly because it has not yet been created, given that Vrtojba-Šempeter has already been created. The municipality of Nova Gorica is also faced with this and has also given the support to double one part of its present territory. Therefore, in any case, I will vote against the law before me, even if it is only from this package that this municipality has received the green light. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much. The case of Rence-Vogris is the case, which will, in fact, expose the problem in which the National Assembly will be located if it does not allow us to form a referendum area. The opinion concludes: "The Constitutional Court expressly states in the decision that the applicant must explain the exceptionality in order to derogate from the legal criteria." On the basis of an elaboratory, which, in my opinion, is the best elaboratory of all proposals for municipalities, the proposer has given a thorough explanation of the exceptionality of derogating from the legal criteria in the case of borders, economic development, history and geographical arguments. He explained them very carefully. Of course, the problem is that it is no longer possible to establish dialogue in the National Assembly. Who should answer these questions? My friend Lavrinc has grown weary. The arguments recorded in the laboratory are not counter-response because they are excellent arguments. I know it's only personal, but if we don't have an interlocutor, that's our problem, not the problem of those people who rightly expect to be allowed to vote on the Rence-Vogres municipality in accordance with the law and the decision of the Constitutional Court. Colleagues and colleagues, Rence-Vogrsko fully meets the constitutional concept of the municipality. The people in this territory are already living as a congregation, accepting it as their own. And, of course, it is an insult, a direct insult to an opinion that has been written somewhere that the new Rence-Vogres municipality could not provide permanent satisfaction to the interests of its citizens. It's so unfair, so unrealistic, so insulting, so unprofessional that we can't accept it. We'll embarrass ourselves, colleagues and colleagues. It is time to stop simply pulling the brakes and in this case do not support the unjust and not the arguments of the reasoned opinion of the Internal Policy Committee. The Municipality of Rence-Vogris meets all the criteria required by law, and in particular on the basis of the last decision of the Constitutional Court. I expect that if there are no answers, which reasons were not well-founded, such as borders, history, geography and economic reasons to simply support. This is how we do justice, or we will be unjust in the elementary position of the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much. First I ask, does anyone have a replica? Mr. Skull, a replica, then a debate, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Of course, I would agree with Mr Podobnik - which I will replicate in one part and in the other Mr Brejc - that part of this decision in this round of decision-making on municipalities is unfair. However, he is guilty in this respect because past decisions have not consistently complied with the criteria. And we have a large number of municipalities that were set up without meeting the criteria, let's say, to this extent or to some extent, like, for example, at this moment, Rence-Vogrisco, only in this. Here I attach my replica to Mr Brejc's concern that what will happen to the LDS is a higher-than-high mayor who would like to make this possible. The LDS is in some trouble, of course, I agree, because on the one hand it must strictly defend these principles, which also go - say - towards its mayors or, or saints, or - not least - to the voters, who are probably also in the area of this possible municipality of Rence-Vogris. However, the advantage or obligation of a policy is that the criteria, regardless of the current benefit, are taken into account for all. I'm going back. Unfortunately, it is now only in this round, but not in the previous round, if we don't see how someone voted back. I took the floor because of what Mr Podobnik is saying, but he does not want to take into account some of these criteria, which are spoken by borders and so on, and the position of these municipalities is higher-a-vis what is actually going to happen at the border. My opinion is that if we look at these things that will happen with the spread of the border, it was probably a mistake because there were some small congregations down there and also Schempeter - The Spin of the Vis-þ-vis, because on the one hand there will be a strong congregation of Gorica and on the other we will have some of these small congregations. I'm speaking to you in this sense, of course, as a local patriot, like -- let's say -- a person who lives on the border, who is on one side looking forward to this drop of borders, and on the other hand has -- I'll say -- so in blood, this experience, care about what happens if we don't know how to pair what's going to happen on the other side. And from this point of view, I will say: the range of decisions that have been made higher-a-vis this area is destructive, simply destructive, because they will reduce the power of both municipalities and institutions and anything that can mate as a boundary of Slovenia as a culture, not as a country. And these other stories related to demography and so on, they're just funny. People no longer make decisions because they have or do not have a congregation or because they have a congregation or do not have one. I don't know the case yet if that's why someone decided to do it. And from this point of view, these things, as well as later on in the regions, need to be considered in the context of what this means to the higher-up of one map, which will be drawn from Ljubljana to Venice. And let's leave, I'll say, I'm looking out for these little bills of client and clientele, and let's just stick to this criterion 5,000 people once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u229	Thank you very much. First, let me say that I am not concerned about this national aspect, the cultural aspect, because Slovenian cultural space is significantly broader than the borders of the Slovenian state. So it's to talk about that because we're going to set up a congregation there, in my opinion, it's irrelevant. In addition, please tell me: Which residents will feel more like a Slovenian country? The ones that this country will listen to, or the ones that will ignore. This authority of men ignores you. Keep doing this, and people will start talking to those who won't. And if that happens, of course, then we know who's leading to destruction. You're talking about criteria being criteria and you're not doing any good. Please! Several times in this Chamber it has been shown that the benefits of Liberal Democracy are on the first thing. And one more thing. Mr. Skolcz, please don't make me feel like I'm worried about Liberal Democracy. I don't care much about Liberal Democracy either. But you can. That's me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion. Then two replicas, Mr. Skolč and then Mr. Partljič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u231	For a moment, I'd like to rephrase my colleague Skullsch. Kolga Školč also sought the reasons and arguments of the parliamentary group, in which, this is the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, he somehow tried to rely on an argument that did not last. To say that this is due to past decisions. That's not true. If any, the current decision of the Constitutional Court has also broken with previous decisions of the Constitutional Court and said in the point "the line with previous decisions". This procedure is a stand-alone procedure and is not directly linked to previous procedures. Nothing, no arguments like they were before. Here and now we make up our minds. And here the Constitutional Court made a large cut and, of course, exceeded or otherwise interpreted the previous decisions of the Constitutional Court. Please! Don't look here for arguments because there aren't any. They're not here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u233	First of all, I must say that I am genuinely calm because Mr Brejc does not care about our client, because otherwise I would be very concerned. I thank him for being here, I'll say, some kind of misunderstanding on my part. At the same time, I must tell Mr Sponik that we did not understand each other. I did not say that it is the same procedure now, but that I think it is wrong that the criteria in previous procedures have not been fully complied with, as we are now taking them into account. That's all I said. I hope that explanation is sufficient. From the point of view of previous procedures, many people might feel deprived at this point. That was the point of my performance. But I think the meaning of the replica is in this debate when we talk about these positions that are being drawn up in a common Europe. I am very precisely aware that the border of the Slovenian cultural space extends across the Italian border, as it is possible for me, unlike many people, that the border of Italian culture reaches deep into our territory and marks it very precisely in all positive ways. I have absolutely no idea of the coast, nor of anything else, without this seal of this culture. What I was saying was that we should also think about how we are administratively organized, not because of some fear, is the theory of numbers. We have on the Coast on one side Trieste, on the other side of Koper. And we have a big city of Gorica and we will have - and also a city congregation - and we will soon have a local community, what I know, Solkan, and Nova Gorica, and Šempeter and so on. This is what, of course, is not directly related again to these criteria for the establishment of congregations, but if anyone is drawing on the scheme of this criterion of limitability, then think about it. This simply needs to be taken into account because it also takes a number to mate. And from that point of view, I think we're being overly frivolous. Not only do I think in this area, but we try to establish a congregation for the benefit of three sidewalks, two candelabras, but three grounds for different institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Partlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u235	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President and colleagues. I even allow you to interrupt me in the meantime and say that I am not talking about this particular case. That's why I called in the replica. But I have been looking all the time for an opportunity to explain in some way why I too have been identifying myself against these congregations. Thank you, we can also feel a little sorry for you because we have to be disciplined - you said, Mr Sušnik. I voted on some things in my own way, and they also remind you that Anderlich came to fight me a little. However, if you today firmly thought, Tone, just wait, if you today firmly thought that there was something to support the congregation, I would support it despite the arrangement or despite discipline. If I thought hard. But I have another thought and fear and a bad experience. She just showed up here. I saw new congregations, including in the area of Maribor, there is not my colleague Kangler here to say Duplek, but another, Ruše, who lived better than before when they were in Maribor. In a number of areas. I also meet congregations where this has not happened. But for the most part, I think it had some sort of reason. The only area where they "sucked" -- who "sucked" with the crowd -- was culture. The institutions that remained before were formerly in one congregation and financed with all the income, usually a larger congregation is now growing. There are exceptions, there are exceptions, but remember, in one congregation near Celje, they immediately closed the library, giving Celje too little for the congregation to have a library, and then they reopened it, even partly to my protest. So, the fragmentation of municipalities, I tell you, is not for the benefit of the Slovenian cultural network. It doesn't fix cultural homes, amateur groups don't have anywhere to play. We've built too many cultural homes across some of the big centers, too large. And I also think it's a shame for Séžana, who has this cultural home, if things were to go any further there. I mean, I kind of define myself by inertia against these municipalities, because my own experience tells me that, if possible, the commune has acquired, infrastructure, a lot of things, in a global way, has been "sucked" by culture. And we're going to crush it as much as possible, the worse it's going to be for some national culture. When my colleague was Minister, he had a vision of a more decentralised Slovenian culture; maybe he was too slow, maybe we didn't serve him here, maybe he didn't do everything, we didn't manage to do it to have a polycentric development of culture. Now it's different, we merge again, and I tell you, with all the new small municipalities - it's not good for Slovenian culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u237	If I were confident, I would still vote for a congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u239	At the first performance of my colleague, I wanted to say something. He said that it would be embarrassing if we did not vote here in a different way than the proposal of the mother's working body. I don't think it's gonna be embarrassing, it's gonna be okay. We considered everything there then. And I'll tell you this, if you talk about the geographical circle of this congregation, of course, it forgets the part that would then deserve to be its congregation, that's Dornberk-Branik. And, I will say, this error that we have put that congregation there could be taken into account if it is not taken into account that it is a completely independent procedure, Mr. Sponik, as you said, as stated in the 17th paragraph, where the Constitutional Court tells us nicely that our wrong decisions in the past do not bind us to anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u241	Thank you so much for saying that. Otherwise, it is unusual for me to replicate Mr Tonet Partlich, but I would like to warn him - he may not have lied, but I misrepresented certain things here when he spoke of the greatest loss of culture in the area of the fragmentation of municipalities. Now I don't even know what he's doing here under culture. What are those activities, whether they are really highly professional cultures, which are very well paid, with high wages and so on, or what that culture is - I don't know. In short, I mean that I was in a municipality not long ago, a small municipality that had a municipal holiday, there - it doesn't matter which municipality - about 2,500 people, and they presented the cultural program and then they told me that they have 15 associations, of which more than half of them are cultural societies, have different groups, dance, children, for older people, singers, women, men. Now I don't know what this culture lost on. These people created their culture precisely because they simply felt that it was theirs and that they needed it to represent and compete with other congregations and so on, even having their anniversary and so on. In short, I don't know what this culture has lost so much now, which is what you're talking about. I'm not going to say that at first maybe they didn't want to get rid of some of the library costs. The law obliges them to do so - exactly how it should be. What must be done in this regard? If the library was now the main reason why you think culture has suffered so much, then I can take that as an excuse for you, but I think it's not so critical and that they're at the local level of a lot - I'm not going to say that maybe this standard has fallen somewhere - but in most cases that we would generally take that there was a terrible fallout or impoverishment in the cultural field, but I don't think it is true. That's my observation on the ground of reality. I'm sorry if I said too much, but that's my view of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Partlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u243	Thank you. That's true what you said. Yesterday I had a festive address before the start of Linhart's meeting, which is before the start of amateur amateur theatre groups. I must say, they've done a lot of work on the conditions in which we work. But I'll tell you one case where you can figure it out. At the previous meeting of the Municipal Council of Maribor, we decided that the city was to cancel the establishment of the Slovenian National Theatre and turn it over to the State. I think it's great. I'm glad we have one state office. Immediately after he raised a colleague's hand and said to try to transfer from Maribor to the country a puppet theatre, a landscape museum and I don't know what else. If the case of the second largest Slovenian city is not enough for you, if I tell you that it wants to get rid of as much culture as possible and get it to the country so that it does not have a culture of costs, perhaps this is not the most correct case. I also know them on other levels. If the institutions that need to be paid regularly and paid are to be carried over. From here it is no wonder that at the Slovenian cultural holiday, when we ask people what they think about Slovenian culture, that everyone answers that. He says, "The state is the stepmother of culture. The country doesn't give enough money. The countries of culture are not interested." No one's ever said, "Court is a stepmother's own culture." Nobody's ever said, "We're rude ourselves because we don't buy books and not support culture, but essentially translate culture into a country." We don't have enough local responsibility for this. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Brace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u245	I cannot accept the difficulty of failing cultural activity by developing local self-government. There's another problem. The problem is that in Maribor local authorities do not have the right sense of culture, and then they transfer it to Ljubljana and so on. But that's another thing and it's got nothing to do with Renches and Vogrski. Please, if we could take this procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u247	Indeed, Mr Partljič, what you have given the case, the Maribor case, has nothing to do with the topic that we are discussing today. And the first person in charge of culture in this country is the state. The country must first lay the groundwork, but not then overcome the topic and, above all, justifying the vote by the Liberal Democracy against the municipality of Rence-Vogres in order to cause culture to fall at local level. I think there's a perversion of the first kind. Secondly, Mr Škoč, the Constitutional Court has put 8 cases into the re-decision of the National Assembly. [[...]] [[It's a meatball from the bench.]] Yes, but as far as the proposals for the establishment of municipalities are concerned. [[...]] And look, here's the thing. Today, the National Assembly should weigh in particular Article 13a. And Article 13a says that for reasons of geographical, border, ethnic, historical, economic reasons, the municipality may have exceptionally fewer than 5,000 inhabitants. Today, we have also made it clear from the laboratory that the municipality of Rence-Vogrosco absolutely meets economic and other conditions. And exactly the economic condition should be condition number one, which should be taken into account by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you very much. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! To be discussed - Mr. Tuckyat? No, no, no. Mr. Sušnik responded to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. See, it will be one year at a time since we started a procedure in this National Assembly to establish new municipalities by changing their areas. We have started this process, realizing that under the law on local self-government we have Article 13a, which foresees exceptionalness. After all the debates that took place in the home working body, as well as in this national assembly, we do not yet have clear criteria for exceptionality when we decide on the decisions of the Constitutional Court. We don't have the criteria for historical excellence, we don't have the criteria for demographic excellence, we don't have the criteria for nationality exceptionality, we don't have the criteria for economic exceptionality, we don't have the criteria for border exceptionality. Look, in the absence of all these criteria, it's totally insufferable to say that we're making an argument. And if we reject the proposal to establish the municipality of Vogrsko-Renče, without taking into account the exceptional economic situation of the proposed area, it will be clear that we are making a decision without taking any arguments; even more so. I hope that every decision that we have made so far, which we are going to do, we have two concepts here. Two concepts for the development of Slovenia, the centralistic concept against the concept of coherent regional development. Unfortunately, the concept of coherent regional development in each decision specifically draws "this short". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u251	You know, if it wasn't for a year, it'd be another day. So from this point of view, it seems to me that, despite all of this, there are things to listen to and I will come to the attention of the cultural, state and Gorica segment, that we will not talk about Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u252	Mr Školč, please, in the replica, that really - warned fellow Members, they were in place - to focus on the Rence-Vogrsko municipality. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u253	That is exactly what I intend to say to Mr Rokavac, first of all, that the relationship between the country and culture through history, the Slovenians are more complex than he imagines, and that in fact culture has established a nation against the country, not vice versa, for decades to say no to the century. I'll stay here. As for the story related to the cultural institutions in Primorska, and about what I used to say higher-a-vis what is happening there and what is going to happen, I will say that it is not a lonely case of what happened in Maribor. The idea of my successor, Mr. Shelig, was to become one, too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u254	Mr. Skull, I apologize. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u255	There's no need to apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u256	The issues you are developing are not in the interest of a debate on the arguments for the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u257	So. They are absolutely, be patient enough that I can explain to you in my own way, and you will see. I'm really sorry, I know what it's like to have a session, but there's a plan for a mountain theater to become a state theater as well. That's it. [[...]] [[It's a meatball from the bench.]] [[...]] Since it would no longer have to be financed there or if you wanted to, otherwise, because the number of people to whom it would belong would have to be reduced so that it could no longer be financed. [[...]] And this is a link to the fragmentation of Nova Gorica. As we continue to talk about culture, I can tell you about the higher-ups of Gorica, Renc, if you want Šempetra, Brd and everything that happened there, that in Gorica the library was created for the purpose of being a center. She was open to the theater. At the time when the new congregations were formed, they were forced to forgive the librarians who were in charge of the library, including the crowds of these newly formed congregations - we can do this to the one who had not yet - they were not prepared to finance the share that belonged. From this point of view, the idea that municipalities have to provide a cultural standard is of greater concern than it seems at the moment. And right on Goriška's crushing, I'm going to say, it's been breaking down what's happened to the torture over the decades as a cultural identity of Goriška and, if you want, the Upper Suča.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u259	I propose that this item of the agenda, given that we have three remaining votes, be completed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. I do not hope to take this decision on my own, taking into account the fact that, at least in the morning work, I have not been able to assess it, so I am making the decision you are proposing in the decision of the national assembly. I'm putting the motion procedurally to end the 6th item of the agenda to a vote. Let's vote! There are 62 of us here. 44 votes against 15. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 15.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted, so we continue to do more than 6 p.m. Replica, Mr. Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u261	Just one sentence to Mr. Skull. All these questions of the cultural home, the library, hospitals and so on are subject to the balance sheet and will be settled when we give the place in this national assembly - in this context Rence-Vogrisko - the status of the municipality and then they will change. They're pretty smart people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal of the parent working body. The proposal concludes that the National Assembly finds that, by means of a constitution and a law, certain conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the modification of its territory do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the municipality of Rence-Vogrsko under C or V/1. Let's vote on that. Let's vote! There are 64 of us present. The vote was 34 to 30. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the proposal for a decision of the parent working body has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the same content of the proposal for a decision for the establishment of the Municipality of Straža pod V/2. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. The proposal for a decision proposed by the mother's working body is that the National Assembly notes that, by law and by law, certain conditions for the establishment of the municipality do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the Watch Tower congregation. We're voting. There are 65 of us present, 42 votes against 22. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. In the debate, I am putting forward the same proposal of the parent working body for the establishment of the Otočec-Šmarješke Toplice municipality. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u263	Thank you very much. Since it is a very important information on the number of inhabitants, I would ask if any of these people can tell us whether they hold the information that we have received from some Members that this area has more than 5,000 inhabitants. This referendum area is expected to have more than 5,000 inhabitants, unfortunately this was found after the first round of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u264	Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u265	Well, I'm just supplementing the discussion with my colleague Spokonik. The fact is that this information has indeed come, and it would probably still be fitting for the National Assembly to get complete information, or in this case it has not happened in the same way as in the case of Šmartny in Lithuania, that some settlements simply fell out in order to fail to meet the criteria of 5,000 inhabitants. And until we get that information, the National Assembly should not decide. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please, and then Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you very much. What was said before me would be complemented by this, and I would point out that this issue was raised at a meeting of the working body at a meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy when we discussed the congregation of Šmarješke Toplice. See, at that time the Committee's decision - Mr Lavrinc will probably confirm this - to obtain the exact information - I did not get this information - and how it is justified to obtain this information before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u268	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State will provide us with information you are interested in. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you. Following the latest official information, which we have further verified since these issues have also arisen on the Internal Policy Committee, this area has 4,959 inhabitants.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u271	It seems that this area almost perfectly meets the conditions, so there are no obstacles to establishing a referendum area. So it would be right - of course, if we didn't have a letter from the Novo Mesto municipality, if we didn't have a letter from the three local communities, and it shows everything here, I would say, in a way, incorrectness in determining the referendum areas. Either way, "screw" some conditions, about the size of it, which suits someone. A third attempt is to make a congregation in these areas. Mr. Parallel, because you quoted all of this so much if you pulled out the paper did you read? [[...]] But then he realized that, by means of deception, consensus had been gained in the part of the local community of Otočec, because the city council of the New City justifies it with countless data and so on; and this means nothing to you. The fact that the letter also says that the settlement is 30 km away is not true. I've walked several times, and on the map, go take a look. From now on, this map is here. This part of the people must pass through the New Town to the seat of Šmarjeta. So it's a circular geographical whole. On the contrary, gentlemen! On the contrary! Creating some artificial stuff. I didn't want to talk to you about anything. But here, what I hope to do is go down there at any time and tell people the same thing I say here, and I go down there every week so it can't be manipulated and it can't be manipulated. And in here, you have requirements for the establishment of new local communities because in this group that you now want to "screw" by checking whether there are 5,000 voters or not. No, it's not. As soon as you decide the referendum area by chance, the procedure will be resumed, where this part, which is natural - through the seat of the congregation, will have to go to another congregation, 30 km away, as you say through another municipality. This one's got to go away. It must go away because they will be threatened with living space because they will be denied self-government local functions and their basic rights to have access to a seat to exercise all rights. The nursing home is here, but of course here, by having a perfect place here, they have a hospital and so on and now from where you have all this care, you drag them somewhere where they don't even have it. Please! They will go to Šmarjeta in the city congregation and through the city congregation. No! No! This is where all the crap we're doing turns out to be. On this case, and I didn't want to call sooner. In my case, however, I would have voted in favour if it were really 9,959, and some other refugees, and so on, as they state in the paper, if it wasn't for yes, it's in the papers. [[...]] And if, of course, you didn't know that these local rights should be realized in this way. To establish congregations to prevent citizens from exercising their fundamental rights, gentlemen, it is unfair and unfair. It's unfair, and, of course, I won't make that suggestion. So I'm gonna go tomorrow, Saturday, and Sunday I'm gonna go down there. And whoever I meet, I'll tell him. Because it's not embarrassing to me like "yes, let's give it to you because it's close to there, and so on, we won't mind our own." No, it's about criteria, it's about things that need to be done honestly. I'm sorry that in this case, which is the last, luckily, not to cause any other controversy, but this is a typical example of how not to work. And I regret that in all cases you find, you dig out of the papers everything, but in this case, you don't quote the most vital and most basic things, but they speak against the arguments and the opposite of looking if any other resident is accidentally lost. No, it's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u272	Thank you very much. Two replicas, first Mr. Podobnik, then Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u273	A replica of a respected colleague, Anderlich, who screamed needlessly. There is no shame in this debate, I have tried to be the same to all proposals. I'd like to say, colleague Anderlich, that I've read all this, I know these complications. I know a lot of bad blood that was in the city world in New Town. I know the conflicts in the local community, I know all that. However, I must say that in my subconscious I had the case of another congregation, where 50 or 40 people were missing, and I was a little suspicious. And since you were so, I would say, holding on tight 5,000, I wanted to ask this question; that's why I asked this question. And quite needlessly now your anger, Your Honored Tone, has turned to me in fact, that was unnecessary. I know some of the great dilemmas that are open about the Shmarjek Spas and the Watch, I know them. But I don't want to be involved in manipulation, so in a few months we'll find out that there were 5,021 people -- that's why I asked this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u274	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the proposal of the parent working body to discuss it? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u275	You even mentioned me as having a replica, and please, if you could use it for the likes of us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u276	Excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u277	Well, it's okay to apologize, but it's still good.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u278	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u279	The thing surprised me about all this turbulence of taking on these matters, and at the end of it. Mr Anderlich, you have a special status, but I don't need you to tell me that I'm Mr. - I'm Mr. - and that you don't stick your finger at the same time, because I don't need to. But it's true that it's nice for a man to always have a moderate path. There were examples of those we talked about today, where the headquarters congregations gave all the consent, including the city congregation of Nova Gorica. Why, then, did we not consider this as an argument? Now, yes, because there is a congregation here that may be directly concerned, Comrade Anderlich, about you. But that's not fair. But I'm a gentleman without your suspicions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Anderlich
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u281	Really, this congregation or the future congregation, or whatever, has nothing to do with me. But since I believed the arguments of the committee which adopted the positions, the proposal for conclusions, and because I had certain cases but only checked and because it disturbed me, I would not have discussed Mr Brenčič, I would not have debated if we had not ignored all these things, put them away and tried to find another resident to "take hold" then, as Mr Rokavec said we could not decide today, because we have yet to get what kind of information. That's the only reason I stopped by. Otherwise, I would not have spoken to you in this proposal. Besides, I haven't been attached to this environment for 35 years, and I don't have a permanent residence there, so it's not there - but I'm still going down there every week.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u282	Thank you very much. Now can I close the debate? I conclude the debate and move on to a decision at the time of the proposal for a decision of the parent working body that the State assembly finds that the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of the municipality do not comply with the proposal for the establishment of the Otočec-Šmarješke Toplice municipality. We are voting on this proposal from the parent working body. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. 40 votes against 18. [[For vote 40.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And I now put to the vote the proposal for a decision of the parent working body on pages 18 and 19 of the review, the reports, to a vote. It's a decision. We vote on the decision as a whole. Explanation of voice. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u283	On the basis of this afternoon's debate and arguments and the impossibility to convince colleagues and colleagues in the argumented debate that, in some cases, the National Assembly has acted contrary to the facts, the facts of the Eliberates, in some cases contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision, and we have argued this in the debate, and there have been no reasoned answers to these events, we cannot support this decision. We will vote "against".
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-30-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u284	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? No, no, no. We are therefore moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body as a whole. Just a minute. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. The vote was 41 to 19. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 19.]] I note that the proposed decision is fully adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat very much for their cooperation. Another announcement. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue our work by addressing agenda item 6 and moving on to agenda 7 and orderly. The 6th point is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and defining their areas, we will move to point 7 and then to a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on General Administrative Procedure, then to point 7 of the bill on registering electoral law and a package of administrative laws. Thank you so much and good night. As the last point, we'll be the point, the election and the appointments, as usual. Thank you so much and good night.
