ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6677	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. Deputies Sabine Mandak, Mag. Brigid Weinzinger, Ing. Norbert Hoferund Mag. Ewald Stadler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6717	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs Dr. Hans Winkler. [[09:02:23]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6753	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Request for a brief debate on the reply 307/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6872	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to have a brief debate on the reply to Question 307/AB of Question No 315/J by honourable Members Mag. Kogler, colleagues on air taxi service with SAAB 105-OE by the Federal Minister for State Defense. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6894	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6921	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, for today's meeting day and for the following session days up to and including 27. In April 2007 a day-block speaking time of ‘9 Vienna hours’ is proposed, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and FPÖ per 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. The budget debate was held on 3 October. A day-block speaking time of ‘8 Vienna hours’ has been set in May 2007, so that the following speaking time for this day is: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, green and FPÖ per 92 minutes and BZÖ 64 minutes. The President-in-Office of the Council also agreed on the design of the debate on the subject of the negotiations in question: The term of office for members of the government according to § 57 para. 8 GOG will not be used. The term of office of the member of the government responsible, which exceeds 20 minutes, or the speaking time of the competent State Secretary, which exceeds 10 minutes, will be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. Furthermore, the speaking time of non-governmental government members or state secretaries will at least be taken into account for the speaking time of the respective government group. With the exception of this, the speaking time of Mr Vice-Chancellor is in the areas of “Top Institutions” and “Bundeskanzleramt”, provided that the speaking time does not exceed 10 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted with the required two-thirds majority. We will hold the debate – in accordance with our practice – in such a way that the general debate, which is actually part of the general debate, can be made in the areas of “Top Institutions” and “Bundeskanzleramt”, which are to be negotiated under one. In any event, the corresponding budget chapter will be discussed at the end of the negotiation of the Federal Estimate on the same day. The session will then be suspended. [[09:06:23]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (39 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2007 (Federal Finance Act 2007 – BFG 2007) together with investments (70 d.B.) 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (40 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the Year 2008 (Federal Finance Act 2008 – BFG 2008) together with investments (71 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e6994	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. In the sense of a concerted procedure agreed at the Presidential Conference, the debate will be held in a part of the upper organs/BKA, women and sport, a part of the national defence, a part of the judicial system; a part of the economy and work, part of transport, innovation and technology, part health, family and youth, part of European and international affairs; a part of education, art and culture, part science and research, a part of social and consumer protection; a part of agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management; a part of the interior and a further part of finance as well as texts of the federal financial laws and establishment plans. This is also a written statement to the honourable Member. The votes on the draft federal financial laws 2007 and 2008 will be held on Thursday, 3rd. ==References== [[09:07:00]] Top organs Chapter 01: Presidential Chancellery Chapter 02: Federal legislation Chapter 03: Constitutional Court Chapter 04: Administrative Court Chapter 05: Public Prosecutor's Office Chapter 06: Court of Auditors Federal Chancellery Chapter 10: Federal Chancellery, Women and Sports
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7169	We are now entering into the negotiation of the part of the Supreme Organs. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen, was the first to speak. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7196	Madam President. It is common to start the debate on the top institutions with some general remarks on the budget, and I would like to do so in the following. I would just like to make two comments on the top organs. First: We expressly welcome the increase in the appropriations for the Administrative Court. The administrative court has a huge backlog of procedures or procedures, and if that continues, it would be necessary to talk about a devalue of the legal culture, the judicial culture in Austria. We therefore expressly welcome the increase in these appropriations, but regrets the fact that, in the last legislative period, funds for the reconstruction of the National Council's plenary room are obviously not provided for, although in the last legislative period, there was agreement that the luxury of seats is extremely modest here, apart from all the other circumstances of this meeting. On the general remarks: I would like to refer to the Austrian stability programme for the years 2006 to 2010, which we have seen two days ago. This is an interesting document, as it first addresses a more expert audience, namely to the EU Commission in relation to the ECOFIN Council, so perhaps less – how should I say? – contains the usual incense and, of course, includes the years 2009 and 2010, based on the 2007 and 2008 budgets, but also includes 2009 and 2010. There are some interesting things, I think – I hope you don't get bored with some technical questions – things that also have enormous political significance. This paper, this stability programme, begins with the Federal Government saying that it is pursuing a three-pillar strategy in its budget policy. Under a three-pillar strategy, I understand that these three pillars have enormous importance. - All right. I'm sorry, but The second pillar is what the reports of other countries certainly call for, namely research and development, infrastructure, education and universities – all that is important and necessary for growth and employment – and we have had opportunity in recent weeks and will now have the opportunity to prove that, in the case of Austria, this pillar is at least a “pillar”. The right steps will be taken, but in the case of Weitem, not those that require the need of the hour, especially at schools and universities. The third pillar – which will surprise you little – is structural reforms, administrative reforms. I think it's about 30 years since I had the pleasure of working in an administrative reform commission – the federal government at the time. I can well remember how much insider knowledge, how much practical intelligence so to say, how much know-how then has flowed into the discussion of the question or, at the end of the day, into the result that public administration is not reformable. – One can track over many decades how much brain malt has flown into this question. Mr Finanzminister, I am already aware of this third pillar, the administrative reforms: The most urgent and important area of reform, which, I believe, exists, namely the reform of the relationship between the federal and regional states, all federalism issues, is not explicitly mentioned here. – Does that mean that you think this is secondary, that this is not a central issue of the next legislative period, or how can this be understood? Now I come to the first pillar: The first pillar is the achievement of a balanced budget over the economic cycle. I'm really interested in this: What do you mean? – Well, it would be imaginable that you mean a mild form of anticyclic budget policy: In the high economy, the deficit is reduced and in the recession the deficit is increased. If that is what it means, then the first thing that is absolutely positive is to understand, and second, it is a radical departure from Grasser’s budget policy. This too is positive to see, because Grasser was absolutely interested in anticyclic budgetary policy – I think he did not know that word at all. The only surplus in the budget, which has been achieved overall, but not at the federal level in its time – in 2001 – was a Maastricht surplus, but certainly not adequate in the context of the economic cycle, because in the middle of 2001 Europe, the world economy has totally broken down, but Grasser has been interested in it. In this context, we can also say a positive word about the 2007 budget: it is mildly anticyclically oriented that the deficit is reduced compared to 2006. – If you mean that, okay!, but a balanced budget over the economic cycle is not that. If you mean what I described earlier, why don't you just say that? Balanced budget on the cycle: Mine Do you want a balanced budget to be presented once in the economic cycle? Only formally would Grasser have fulfilled this goal, but in the wrong year, that is, in a recession year – so that can't be useful policy. Or do you think, Mr Finanzminister, that if you use this keyword, perhaps the usual one and mean it, as the EU Commission will probably understand, that in the cycle – consisting of recession, high economy and average – you are projecting a balanced budget throughout the cycle, i.e. achieving surpluses in the high economy and deficits in recession? To do this, I can only ask: Do you think so? – There has been no more than one history in all of Austria, 1953/1954. I can't remember how the economic situation was then, but suppose it was a high economic situation, and Reinhard Kamitz then fulfilled this goal – since then it has never been fulfilled. - Point one. Even in this legislative period, from 2007 to 2010, budgetary data has not been used for this purpose – this is not the aim! – in addition to the fact that, for this policy, the first pillar of budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is no economic theoretical justification for this policy. But I always like to learn something about it: Please tell me what the economic theoretical reason for this objective is! Strictly speaking, it means: If the time – we say, more than 50 or 100 years, that doesn't matter – consists of successive economic cycles and a balanced budget, consisting of surpluses and deficits, over the respective cycle, then a zero deficit arises in the period as a whole: Net Atlantic debt is zero. This may be appropriate, purely economic policy, but what about the argument that in certain large infrastructure investments it is quite appropriate to ensure a burden distribution across generations? – This is a strong debt argument! So, give me a theoretical reason why this is useful, which is the first pillar of Austrian budgetary policy! This would interest me as a former specialist, that would interest me as a citizen, that would interest me as a budget politician. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Previous expert!]] What is the first pillar of Austrian budgetary policy? For the time being, I have the impression: It sounds good! Perhaps I would also write this in if I had the dubious pleasure of being Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria – I don't want to dispute that at all – but what does it really mean? [[Rejoicing]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: wishes!]] What does it really mean? As far as the data are concerned, ladies and gentlemen: They report to us here in Austria and also to the EU Commission a balanced budget or budget with a general government surplus – Maastricht – for 2010. At the same time, you say that a tax reduction will be made this year. - That's it. Both you cannot have in this form: If in 2010 – and I suppose you mean, on 1st. In January 2010 a more or less massive, but at least palpable tax reduction will take place, the data for the year 2010 are wrong. How wrong, I don't know because I don't know what tax reduction you're planning, but they're safe! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: He doesn't know what we're doing yet, but it's definitely wrong!]] Wouldn't you please us to tell us to what extent this tax reduction is to be made: 0.1 percent, 0.5 percent, 1% of gross domestic product, or billion euros? – I don’t care what number you call me! Apart from that: If this tax reduction comes, then of course the goal is the first pillar, the balanced budget over the economic cycle, “for the Hugo”. It is already “for the Hugo”, but then it is twice “for the Hugo” because it clearly contradicts itself. [[Calls: “Hugo”]] – “Hugo” means no one in person. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Third, short, point – I see, I have already exceeded my voluntary speaking time –: Can you tell me on an occasion why you always randomly exchange and confuse debt and debt ratios, and why do you equate interest-rate expenditure with interest-rate ratios? Do you know that cost me one or two hours of my precious lifetime? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: But you learned!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] – I take it stupid anyway, Mr. Cot! On page 18 of this stability programme you will find the sentence: From 2006 to 2010, the structural balance, the structural deficit... where, by the way, Mr Cap, the Eurofighter is originally calculated: It doesn't cost us anything anyway, so we count it out of the structural balance too! But it is said that this is done – I think that is progress. So: This structural balance without Eurofighter improves by about 0.9 percent of GDP, with 0.3 percentage points due to lower interest expenditure – lower interest expenditure! Now a naivling like me means lower interest expenditure means that interest expenses are falling. Far from it! Now I've been thinking about what's even going on. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are also a long-standing budget politician, perhaps on occasion you will explain to me what is the ‘implicit interest rate of public debt’. I tried to understand. This is not so difficult, it is a break, a quota, interest expenditure divided by government debt. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is there a final exam?]] All you have to do is calm down, my colleague. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I ask if there is a final exam!]] If the implicit interest rate of government debt remains constant, Mr. Col. stupid – what is claimed here – how can interest expenditure fall? Interest expenditure divided by financial debt is the implicit interest rate of government debt. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You are the economic professor!]] The public debt, Mr President, is increasing in the course of the period. Then the implicit interest rate can only remain constant if the counter increases this fraction. In the denominator are the government debt, in the counter are the interest rates. This quota, if the denominator rises, can only remain constant if the counter rises. That means: It is clear that interest expenditure must rise, and they do so if you calculate it. Only: The text says interest expenditure falls. Apart from: The budget data we received a few weeks ago, as far as the federal government is concerned, actually states that interest expenditure is falling. As a general rule, they are obviously increasing, even according to the official data of the Ministry of Finance. Where does the difference come from, ladies and gentlemen? It can only come from countries and communities! However, the federal government has 92 percent of total debt; Countries, municipalities and social security combined 8 percent – and they can make up the difference? Somewhere there is a small but not irrelevant error in the calculation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7359	Ladies and gentlemen, only as a general note after I have heard it several times: I remember that there is an absolute ban on mobile phones in this room, not only for the Members of Parliament, but also for the staff of the clubs and the members of the government. The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7386	Actually, I could listen to you for hours, Professor! Perhaps this has been done with this interest reduction because the author wanted to see if there is someone who really reads the text very carefully. Maybe that's the background. Where the Eurofighters are, the Minister of Finance will be able to tell us, they will have to be somewhere. Or there is already such a pessimism among the authors that they have calculated the Eurofighters prophylactically. Of course, I'd be glad to say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We know that a budget is the expression of the policy of those who write this budget, an expression of the priorities. We may then repeat the debate, because we say it is a change of course, and my follow-up speaker will say that it is not a change of course. We have already discussed this here in this House, that there are now very different accents in this budget, and you can of course also read this on the figures, including the key figures of the 2007/2008 budget, which is a double budget: The debt ratio is declining, the growth is increasing, the unemployment rate is falling from the forecasts. Now I could say that the Socialists and Socialists in the government are scarce, radically changing their forecasts, and everything is getting better. This will certainly be a part of the vote, and, of course, this is also due to world economic development, which I naturally admit. But this development is gratifying because it expands the scope for action of the budget and creates more opportunities for real recognition of social, educational, growth, employment and health in many other areas. I am also excited whether this is repeated today, that part of the speakers says, that it threatens the zero deficit and the scarcity, and the other part says that there is again the joy of making debt. This will not be repeated today, I suppose, because that was a good contribution to the discussion at the time, because we were able to prove that we have chosen a medium course which is probably the smartest in this context. The question of tax reform was rightly addressed. There will be questions to ask: What kind of distribution should it have? What impetus should be given to the economy with what impact on employment? How does it work to strengthen the purchasing power to put additional impulses in place here? What are the effects on small and medium-sized enterprises, on small and medium-sized enterprises? How can a tax reform be implemented so that the State can carry out its task here and put this impulse in place? But we'll still have enough time to discuss this. [[Abg. Street: Until 2010!]] But that's certainly a nail sample. – You are already impatient, Mr Klubobmann Stache, but you will still have enough time to really get in here. The truth is, it's about Austria! [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] The truth is, it's not about the fact that there are two parties, which form a government, telling each other something. The truth is, it's about the question: Does it benefit the country or does it not benefit the country? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But that's where you needed a long time for this knowledge!]] And according to these criteria, this budget design must be assessed. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] . I don't know why you're making this so nervous when one of you says it's about Austria. What else should it be about? It's not about the "Hugo", it's about Austria! I'm just telling you this because you're suddenly reacting very nervously. That is why, I believe, is the crucial question to be taken into account. It is often the case in these budget discussions that they become too technical on the one hand – and I have been following this excursion of Mr. Professor with great interest; one can never have enough of it – but, of course, it is important that we tell citizens what happens to their taxpayers, with their taxes, because the money is not printed, but is taken in advance. In particular, I find the criticism of those who do not take it at all, these are the “best”: Although they are very creative in spending – I don't want to mention the countries now because I don't want to deal with them, they're too powerful for me – but it's still the case that they're, of course, sometimes trying to get in there, where I say, but that's quite a one-sided matter. In any case: This is where tax money is taken, and I believe that this should also be fairly distributed in the interests of the country and of the people. That is why I believe that this is a good starting point at the beginning of the budget debate, because we have discussed it in great detail in the committees and will also have the opportunity to express our views on the various areas. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What did you actually tell us?]] – Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, you should think of your failed budgets of the past, where we often have to criticise the social situation, where many did not vote! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Say something in content!]] But I have already said that in my speech after the budget speech of the Minister for Finance Molterer, I do not want to repeat it today. One last thought about the plenary room, because the clubman Van der Bellen mentioned: This isn't primarily about us. It's not primarily about whether we're sitting here comfortable or not. We know the health studies, which are very negative, and it is a space that is obsolete and has the negative impact on many here in this area. This isn't the main topic for me. And you have to be economical, I say, no question. But it is also here a place where Austria is represented, a place of symbolism, in which Austria should be proud, a place also of self-representation. When we think of the German Bundestag, of the symbolism and the power of the Germans to express their parliament, we should also lose a thought about it. Again: It is not about us primarily, it is primarily about the Republic, about the representation, about the symbolism, because of what it is worth to us when we present ourselves here – otherwise nothing else! From this point of view, I think this should be taken into account, although, of course, we must also act responsibly towards the taxpayer here and not lose sight of the criterion of economy. In the run-up to these debates, we have often talked about the so-called accessibility. I would not wipe this out of the table and believe that there should also be investments in accessibility here so that disabled Members can move inside without barriers. These are also symbolic elements which should be taken into account and which must be of importance in the discussion.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7488	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. You, Mr President, have taken the whole of 20 minutes as a time frame. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7516	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that, of course, a cry must come from the ÖVP, because it always hurts when the opposition takes its time to speak and, accordingly, is criticizing. And that you are insensitive to criticism, we know that, and that you are also counsel-resistant, we know that too, that's God's way. But I'm still coming to speak to the Austrian People's Party. I would like to start by saying a few words in the direction of Dr. Cap. It is already remarkable the SPÖ's attitude to this budget: From the Federal Chancellor to the Social Democratic Ministers and MEPs, the budget is praised, and it is said how great you have been involved and what social priorities have been made here. – The comrades in the countries outside see this differently. One SPÖ group after another, whether this is the case in the Linz municipal council or in other areas of Upper Austria, submits applications to the municipal councils to ask the Federal Government to take back the non-social measures of the government programme. So something's wrong now. Apparently the SPÖ tip has already been removed so much that it no longer perceives what is happening at the bottom of the base, which criticism is being practiced here. It seems to be trying to speak up. Perhaps just a short while before I go to the basics, that is to say, the budget: To rebuild the plenary room you should already note that of course an improvement would be necessary here, but please everything within the framework! It can't be, if we find five meetings and a reserve day in the next six months' meeting calendar, that we are spending 1 billion schilling for the conversion here! For this, no citizen can understand if he has to realize that he is saved when he experiences permanent price increases and no longer knows how to pay his rent, that we will then build and renovate the plenary room in there with €70 million! I'm sure it can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] This is a critical contribution! The fact that you don't hurt the €70 million from the SPÖ is clear, because that pays the taxpayer anyway and not you! Of course, you have no understanding of this, I understand that has always been a social-democratic priority. But I would also like to stick to the budget when we get to the basics. If we look at the budget, it's clear, that's not a big throw, as it's presented. This government turns itself and says that a big throw has succeeded us, trying to sell us something great. – Despite the high economy, there is no balanced budget! Not even tax reduction measures exist! No, there is a deficit, a deficit of €8 billion! So I praise the Bruno Kreisky, who at least made possible a tax reduction programme for the Austrian population with the debt he made. Your Minister of Finance can't do that. Despite high economy and without tax reduction, he makes a further debt of €8 billion! So that's really huge, because I really have to say, "Hut off", because the ÖVP is “toll” on the road with social democracy! Especially in a phase of the high economy, we must have a balanced budget. If the old Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel had responded properly and in time when the high economy had started, we would not only have a three-percent economic growth if we had 4 to 5 percent economic growth in Europe as well as the top riders. Other European Union countries, whether they are Holland, Denmark, Ireland or others, have done exactly what is necessary in a phase of the high economy, namely to relieve small and medium-sized businesses, to boost the economy, to strengthen the medium-sized countries, to strengthen purchasing power and ultimately to ensure higher tax revenue. Overall, you have failed here, and this is unfortunately the point of God: They have benefited from an international high-economy and have not even realized in good time that something more could have been taken out and other measures to be taken. I wonder how a medium-term reorganisation of the Austrian budget can succeed if the red and black German government achieves a clear deficit in an economically good phase. Do you really expect this high economy to continue until 2010?- Oh, my God! That is not to be expected. And it is almost hopeless to set up a balanced budget over the economic cycle if this is not even achieved in this phase without re-indebtedness. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] Mr. Molterer says: Be a little optimistic! – Yes, that is typical of this 08/15 vocabulary of the Minister of Finance: “future”, “optimism”, “to stand for budget policy”, “to have must”! All these keywords are actually empty sleeves, as one notices when one goes into the depths. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises, the SME, cannot be found in this budget. There are still burdens in this area. [[Abg. A dilettant!]] – ‘Dilettant’. That's what the right one is talking about! Just the right one is talking, the right dilettant! – The State continues to tax the labour factor. You may not have noticed that we are 9 percent above the average of the European Union. And if you continue to burden the labour factor so much, you must not be surprised that the companies are sniffing. But, of course, the employees are also sniffing under the load. There is a need to do something about this, and we believe that it is necessary – in the long run, successively – to be clearly below the average of the European Union. That would be a goal, but the courage is missing! And, of course, the contributions made to wages cost jobs and reduce net income. You probably haven't talked about it yet. In the future, we will set in motion a spiral that will ensure that, if there is no longer the high economy, and unfortunately we do not experience God's beautiful growth in the economy, it will be so that the companies will remove jobs again and that there may be more unemployed to keep the profits going. That is why we need to consider something now, and that is why we need to make sure that economic policy is now being done something at the high level of economic activity. [[Abg. Big truck: a dilettant!]] I understand that the SPÖ is riding around here and is pretending to have done something here, but the only thing that has succeeded is to realize that the whole group is now apparently continuing the herb soup diet in order to make it easier to lower the pants in front of the ÖVP. This should probably be the result, which is the impression of looking at your policy. Before the election, you have promised a discharge from the Social Democracy, but also from the Austrian People's Party, almost already a mill-like one, a discharge of the middle class, a discharge of small and medium-sized businesses. There is nothing more to be seen, nothing more to hear and nothing more to be seen in this budget. Then the year 2010 is comforted! The only thing you've done is to make another stop on the middle class, namely on the question of increasing the truck toll, which will have a smarter extra cost of approximately €2 500 per year and trucks. Well, how will it go? – Of course, the product will become more expensive again, of course the consumer will again be taxed, the employee will be taxed in addition to the increase in mineral oil tax. That's exactly the cycle you're setting in motion: everything is going on again, no trace of innovation, only additional loads! The price of petrol and diesel alone plus 3 and plus 5 cents is higher than € 100 million – only by increasing the value added tax on mineral oil tax. You can only wonder and ask: Why is it not prepared to finally reduce VAT from 20 to 10 per cent in the area and thus to give real relief to the citizen? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's your policy! – And let’s keep this in mind again: We have today the highest budget deficit in the Second Republic! The ÖVP, which in this context always refers to Bruno Kreisky, today is responsible for the highest budget deficit in the Second Republic! I remember, at least, that the ÖVP has been permanently represented in a federal government for the last two decades and has, of course, contributed to it. Every year every Austrian pays €3 050 only for the repayment of interest for our national debt! Interests make up €9.3 billion! – An incredible sum! That's 14 percent of government expenditure. Austria today has 168 billion euros in public debt. If you put it down, that means: Every citizen already owes €23,077 at birth – thanks to the previous governments over the last decades. - And you're going on. You take on a further debt, without tax reduction! This debt policy must end! You always say your goal is a balanced budget, but the opposite is the case. You just have to say this critically. We now need, at this stage of the high economy, finally a change in policy, and consumers must now be relieved in order to achieve an increase in purchasing power. Please don't forget: The Wifo has noted that the purchasing power of Austrian citizens in 1997 was a better or as good as today. “Better” is even seen in the Wifo report. So: In 1997 the Austrians had more purchasing power than today! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Now probably the diletantic call comes back, but you don't want to take note of this: The real wages in 2006 are below those of the year 1997! We are experiencing a development where the middle class is crumbling, a few are getting richer and richer and there are more and more poor. This is exactly the step towards the two-class society we don't want. We want a strong middle class. We have a social responsibility here, and this is exactly what we want to ensure. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] One almost has the impression that what was discussed in the Austrian Convention on Reform is sound and smoke. The Austrian Convention has made some proposals for a profound state reform and said that we can save €3 billion. - But nothing happens! There is nothing that can be deduced from your government programme or from this budget. I wonder because there are many potentials to put in place savings measures. We even currently have more revenue from the Federal Government in the area of wage tax and in other areas, where we have some revenue on taxes in January, February, amounting to € 800 million, which are not even budgeted. [[Call the ÖVP:More employees!]] If you calculate this to the year 2007, you can conclude that we will achieve €1.6 billion in tax revenue that is not even budgeted due to the high economy. We already have a cost-neutral package to ensure a tax reform. And with the 3 billion from a state reform, we would have an opportunity to ensure and finance tax relief. With regard to red tape: The state causes the Austrian companies only €8 billion of costs per year through bureaucracy. Today, 8 billion € in costs are imposed on companies alone by bureaucracy. Something has to change right here! And there needs to be a relief from the domestic economy, there needs to be changes. I am telling you where the changes would be possible and useful. Small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. SMEs, are to be relieved. And, of course, the reduction of additional wage costs is a necessary step, as already mentioned. We are clearly above the European Union's average. Or the abolition of the so-called "bagatell" taxes: The advertising tax alone is taxed Austria's economic operator with €90 million a year. The loan contract fees amount to € 160 million per year. Stock fees for rental and insurance contracts amount to € 70 million. The company tax is €50 million. Overall, a total gross relief of at least €350 to €400 million could be made possible in the area and the SMEs would be relieved and strengthened. There are also many other possibilities. Further target measures would be, for example, the pre-tax deduction for vehicles used in operation and the abolition of the minimum corporate tax. There are many, many possibilities, up to the agility of child care, where one can also ensure approaches, up to the fight against the shadow economy, by also being able to put off the budgetary service from the tax, as is the case with the Finnish model. This is a way of meeting the shadow economy. Today it is known that in the field of the shadow economy € 21 billion will be implemented by the tax. There is so much potential, so many opportunities – but nothing like that becomes visible from innovative considerations for the next few years! It will continue to be managed as before, and that is the accusation I am making of social democracy. ==References== October the citizens have chosen the bowl course, and the SPÖ is sitting today with a chancellor in the Federal Government, who has fulfilled his sandbox dream, but does nothing but continue this bowl course. [[Call to the ÖVP: Thank God!]] And that rightly upsets the many voters who have hoped that there will be a change, that this bowl course, which they have chosen, will not be continued by Mr Gusenbauer, but that at last social policy measures and a strengthening of the middle class and perhaps also of the families will be possible once again in this country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A lot of things would have to do, there are many possibilities! For example, a reduction in VAT on electricity and gas – I have already mentioned petrol – also in medicines. How do the sick even get to pay 20 percent VAT on drugs? On average, we also have 8 to 12 percent in the VAT sector for medicines. But with us, happy is still being collected on the back of the sick: 20 percent VAT! All of this has to be addressed openly once. At the Pendlerpauschale, it would also be necessary to remodel a system – it would have been time for a long time! – that is, fixed amount instead of amortization. That would be something! Those persons who do not pay taxes cannot, in the end, claim a deduction either. However, due to the enormously increased cost of cars, very high costs are still to be met, and this is an uneven treatment. We could do something like introduce a degressive depreciation. This would give rise to a large steering effect for investment. One of the most important points – I mentioned it earlier – is, of course, the reduction of bureaucracy, the simplification of wage accounting, the reduction of statistical requirements for entrepreneurs, the abolition of the publication obligations in the “Official Journal to the Vienna newspaper”. All this is wasting a lot of money! As a European comparison, the administrative burden in Austria is 4.6% compared to gross national income, the average in the European Union is 3.5%. This shows that the administrative costs of the bureaucracy are too expensive for us and that there is sufficient opportunity here to save. The bureaucracy costs local businesses €8 billion! - That's where the ÖVP laughs. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] She doesn't care. Although ÖVP says that it is an economic party, it is actually a party of large corporations and large industry. An economic party has not been the ÖVP for a long time – and a family party is not at all! We must note this in view of what we have had to experience in recent weeks. But this is beautiful, because it needs a party in the country, which also represents values that are not left-political, social-political, like the ÖVP, which not only has the interests of the large industry and the large corporations in mind and which ultimately also accepts the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises. Even the Oberösterreich Chamber of Commerce says that small businesses have to pay €3,570 per employee per year in order to comply with the daily bureaucratic requirements of authorities and offices and control bodies. You've been in control of something here for 20 years. – Again, there are no proposals for change, nothing should be changed here again, and there should be no discharge of the smaller and medium-sized traders here again! Unfortunately, nothing can be seen except political speeches, Sunday speeches, promises before the election. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Today is Wednesday!]] Yes, you just have to find out! If you take the savings and the additional tax revenue projected for 2007, i.e. in the case of wage and corporate tax revenue – where we already have €800 million in additional income not budgeted in January/February; you can count that this will amount to approximately €1.6 billion in 2007 – plus administrative savings, which are possible, we could link a tax relief package of over €4 billion over the next four years. That would be interesting! Because the last tax reduction package the Austrians did not feel, although you sold it as the “largest of the Second Republic”. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: As we see with real wages and purchasing power, it has not gone through. And that's exactly why there's also a party that accepts these things openly and honestly – and not beauteous speech and ultimately falseness.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7699	The next item is Mr Klubobmann's speech. 12 minutes welcome. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7721	High house! Not “Sunday speech, ” but a“ Wednesday speech. ” [[Abg. Strache: But in the sound of Sunday!]] I should like to congratulate very warmly on this double budget, which continues to be a good one. Of course, it is not that everything is different now, dear Josef Cap, because it has been said since the Social Democrats were in the government, everything is different. We had last year, you weren't in the government yet, 3.2 percent growth this year – now you're inside – 3 percent. So it is not a descent, but a continuation at a high, good level, and so it should remain in the next few years. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now another word about H. C. Strache: It must already be noted that in recent years some efforts have been made to reorganise the budgets. Since 1996, we have been writing primary surpluses. In other words, the purely revenue-expenditure account of the State, the government debt and its interest rate are out of surplus. There have been two dramatic budgetary reorganisation attempts, namely 1995/96 – at that time an early national election was necessary – and then again in 2000. Today we are much better there. We have actually made the budgets anticyclically – in a mild form: We had a zero deficit in 2001. We have then deliberately countered with growth packages, in the last three years with different tax reductions, which have led us to have very, very good growth rates now. On the labour market, you can see the rest: We now have almost 80 000 jobs more than a year ago. The unemployment rate is falling significantly. On this good path – mild anticyclic budget and economic policy – we simply want to continue with the aim of having a zero deficit in 2010. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's a good way. We should only, I believe, really benefit from this margin, which is of course also being given to us internationally by the good world situation, but also, once added, by the first-class benefit we have made towards the EU and towards especially Central and Eastern European candidate countries, through a gradual, careful opening of the Austrian labour market – I really appeal to the Federal Chancellor, to the Minister of Labour and to the entire Federal Government. We already have real problems in many areas of getting qualified employees. You only have to listen in practice, for example in Vienna. Today in the early morning, I heard some very massive statements in this direction from the integration councillor, who is close to the SPÖ. And the woman's right. Just as the Chamber of Commerce and smart workers representatives say: If we want to keep our standard, we must be careful and step by step to prepare for the opening of the labour market, so that not a Big Bang does not hit us all unprepared. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] I therefore believe that in view of the scope we are now receiving through the good economy and also through the sprinkling tax revenue, we should not simply generate new desires, but that we should now try to consistently benefit from the margin for debt reduction and deficit reduction during this time of the high economy. The budget estimates have done well. For the first time in the next year, we will undermine the 60 percent debt ratio. This is, I believe, a very useful point, because this has made us a certain balance that we did not have before. What is important in these two budgets: The social ratio remains high. It is well known that it has fallen until the year 2000, but it has increased slightly. She stays high, and that's very important. The investment rate remains high, over 20 percent. We are one of the countries that really have a very high investment rate in terms of the private sector, but also of public and non-budget investment. We need to further develop this high level of infrastructure. – This is in these two budgets. However, we should also do it intelligently. I got back on the West Railway yesterday. With confidence said: I don't want all the motorways only to be driven more in the tunnel. There we already have noise protection measures, which cost an insanity money, well over €100 million per year, which I do not think is necessary in this form. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] You should use the money more meaningfully. What's going on about the subject of rail: I call myself 100 percent of reasonable rail investment, but we should also look at the priority line. For example, we urgently need a high-speed train to Pressburg, for the Vienna – Pressburg route. That's very, very important. We need to be able to pass the travel time on to the customers. We need to strengthen the power lines in the infrastructure – that is also very positive. We have finally made the breakthrough in Styria so that we can really guarantee the security of energy supply in the south of Austria. I believe that this also includes – what was discussed in these days – the pipelines, the gas connections, the international projects that the OMV is doing in these days. If we are honest – and we are also criticised for this – I know that – if we are honest, we must now be able to provide energy security for our people for the next ten, 15, 20 years in the long term. If you look at the gas fields, there are three major suppliers: Russia, Iran and Qatar. Qatar is the American headquarters, where they have Exxon and Chevron, where no Europeans come in. The same oil field is opened up by the Iranian side, and it is no coincidence that virtually all major European gas companies participate from this side. It has concluded about total contracts, Shell has concluded contracts a few weeks ago, including intent contracts that have to be fulfilled with life only. Eni is there, the Spanish oil and gas company, and the OMV. I think that this is also very useful, because relying only on Russia is not enough for me personally. It is therefore necessary to stand on several legs. And we now have a real problem in Iran's nuclear programme. We are, of course, going side by side with the world community, side by side with the European Union, with the Americans. Quite clearly, we are here for a peaceful solution, which also provides for nuclear control for Iran. But we hope that this problem can be solved in the coming weeks or months by the joint action of the world community. But this is about 20 and 25 years of contracts, which are now to be started, so that we have a reasonable overall line. Therefore: Full support from my side for the OMV and at the same time full support for the line of the world community when it comes to a joint approach in the nuclear programme against Iran. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are well placed with these two budgets economically. In these days, the National Bank has presented the most recent data on the current account. You have to break this up on your tongue: Last year we had the largest current account surplus in the history of Austria at €8 billion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's 3 percent of the gross domestic product – a huge success! One fifth of our GDP increase, our economic growth comes from monetary union. We really must mention the euro area and participation in the euro area here, because before Austria's accession, we had a current account deficit of 3% of GDP, now we have a current account surplus of 3% of GDP. This is, please, a huge success story, which you should also emphasize. As far as exports are concerned, they have increased from 29 percent to 43 percent in the ten years, even to 57 to 58 percent. It is only a matter of time until we are overtaken by Switzerland or Sweden in absolute numbers. I personally believe that we are well placed here and do not need to fear, the budgets are also an absolute support of this path. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Josef Cap always asks the question: Is this a change of course or not? – Of course, changes are included, which is clear, because we have also made a common budget. However, if you look at the total budget, you notice that the changes make up 2% of the total – 98 percent are completely unchanged. If you look at individual sub-areas, in social or in research, in education, you can see that there are 3 per cent of the changes compared to what we reported earlier in Brussels. And I must say quite honestly, with such an enrichment of our common path, we can live absolutely by the People's Party. 97, 98 percent are a good manuscript that we have submitted! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now a point that is very important to me because it also concerns the Federal Chancellery directly; this is an absolute success story that I believe should be rewritten on the issue of administrative reform and e-government. [[Call:History]] In this area Austria was still relatively far behind four, five, six years ago; there we were practically in the last place, I think, places 13 or 14. At the EU summits in Lisbon and Feira, we have committed ourselves to setting up national programmes so that we have all the essential administrative services available on the Internet. Four years ago, we created the ICT board, the eGovernment platform and the Digital Austria Platform, where federal government, countries, municipalities, social security funds, social partners, all belong to it. This model has been awarded the “Red Arrow Award” in the previous year, and we have in the meantime a wealth of... – H. C. Strache, Mr. Klubobmann, that is really important, that is an absolute success story! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] We have implemented, for example, the electronic act, two million files a year, all paperless and computer-based. The citizens' projects, reporting registers, child money online, corporate service, financial online, have been accessible to all citizens for four years – 40 percent of all citizens benefit from this, 100 percent of all companies. We have Help.gv.at with 10 million monthly surveys, the electronic basebook, electronic communications, legal information systems in the Federal Chancellery – surveys per month: 11 million accesses – the central reporting register and so on. It is no coincidence that we increased to 2 years ago 2 years ago from place 13 4 years ago to place 4 years ago and last year we were the first – European champion! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Many countries today are imitating this European and Austrian success model. I would therefore very much ask that we courageously continue this path, there are still some things that can be improved, but we should at least take advantage of this opportunity. Good luck! We are well placed, we can at least live with this budget – full support for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7887	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 12 minutes welcome. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e7908	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government and the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It was interesting to see how Klubobmann Josef Cap listened to the statements of the clubman's bowl and how it turned around to the stomach from time to time. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You didn't hear that, did you?]] – But it is true that many of what Klubobmann Schüssel has said here Much of what you are now selling as your own success is also a success of the past six, seven years! [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That builds on it. You have also written as an entrance statement in your government statement that you want to build on the past years. [[Abg. Strache:... Worm progress of the ÖVP!]] Mr. Klubobmann Cap, you have noticed that you somehow don't tolerate this, because you're not really on track yet, because on the one hand you have to admit that a lot of positive things has happened under the previous government, but on the other hand you wish Klubobmann bowl on a lonely island with a one-way ticket. The state of the government also corresponds to: It is constantly disputed, one constantly insults one another. You just need to see what has been oriented each other in the last few days alone: For example, State Secretary Lopatka said to your address: “Within the SPÖ there is a large, not insignificant group that does not want to contribute to the work for Austria.” – So Lopatka via the SPÖ. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Or Mayor Häupl about the ÖVP: “From the ÖVP you can hear only no, no, no. These are no-sayers, denyers, insisters on the old positions." Budgetary spoke boldly and spoke of “angstrumata” and“ persecution fears ” in the SPÖ. - Everything incredible! “Gusenbauer and Buchinger have apparently not grown their job,” said Karlheinz Kopf, who sits inside here as well. Michael Häupl: The blacks have “made nothing but to block. ” ‘They are a smearing leader.’ [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Haupl continue: “They will get to know us.” – Getting to know them will be the SPÖ; I’m excited how it looks then. And Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel said: Mr Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, operate Get the beams out of your eyes! - It's not bad either. That was at the last party meeting. Mr. Kalina said again: ‘As long as Klubobmann Schüssel remains as a controller, rule in ÖVP Mief and Enge.’ This is the coalition jar that rules here. In this coalition jargon, in this dispute-hansl culture and in this culture of the Austrian bad fight there can be nothing positive at all, there can be no good budget, there can only be burdens because you do nothing but constantly argue, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And then it comes to these newspaper headlines: “100 days, 100 pans” – Mr. Federal Chancellor, I hope you have read this carefully. Or in the “Kronen Zeitung”: “SPÖ and ÖVP in the dead end” – that’s it! Or: Red – Black curses. – It goes on this way: Gusenbauer has not grown his job. – You could quote a few more. What you're delivering is a devastating picture. People don't believe you either: Two thirds of the Austrians say that this government is doing bad work. There's another shade: Only 14 per cent – Mr. Cap, now the ears are pointed, too, Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer – all 14 per cent see the SPÖ manuscript you have always quoted! 14 percent! Based on the Government Convention and on the budget, the 14 percent do not even charge for the sentence marks! In other words, people already have a real feeling: There is nothing going on, it is disputed, and the SPÖ has basically capitulated! This is also reflected in this budget: Two thirds of the total expenditure in this budget goes to black resorts, and one third of all expenditure goes into red resorts. – I thought you, the SPÖ, were the first. I thought you'd have the leadership in the government now. Where, then, do you have the leadership if you manage only one third of the expenditure and have ministers like the Minister of Social Affairs, who have now been to Parliament for a short time, who can have nothing to do because he has no competence? This is actually the point that should be held after 100 days of government and in connection with this budget: Taxation is being incurred, across the bank, while debt, but at the same time revenue is spreading, at the same time no tax reliefs are carried out, but only announced. – This is also a comprehensive election betrayal that you have committed, because you have promised people much more than you now comply with before the election. [[Abg. Oillinger: What about you?]] We have looked at exactly what burdens – not in detail, but in individual expenditure – will exist over the next two years: Income tax plus 13 percent, wage tax plus 10.5%, capital income tax plus 10 percent, corporate tax plus 22 percent, standard consumption tax plus 8.1 percent, health insurance contributions, oil tax increase, charge increases. In total, over the next two years you will have revenue of around 10 percent, which is 5,5 billion € that you will take more! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] This is a scrapping action! They don't give people back! Citizens need to finance the tax reform, which may come sometime, perhaps in 2010 – there is probably no longer your government, because you have already disputed so much – themselves, and then you may sell it as a great success before the election. – This is not the policy that we imagine. Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, you have taken the Federal Chancellor with a counterthesis to the previous government, you have said you want to be the government of social warmth compared to the alleged social cold of the former government. Now I ask you: Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer, where is this social warmth? - No one can find them! Where is social warmth, for example, for skilled workers? 7,000 unemployed skilled workers in Austria. And what are you doing? They fall around and make the early east opening for the skilled labour market with the ÖVP and bring in foreign skilled workers who are in direct competition with Austrian skilled workers who have no work at all. Is this the social warmth for skilled workers? Or, Mr. Federal Chancellor: Is it social warmth for people if you increase mineral oil tax and health insurance contributions? Is it social warmth if you really cut the care allowance in the next three years, because there is only one, perhaps real, adjustment in it? - In three years' time, this is a reduction. They cut the care allowance for the poorest, for the affected people. Is this your government of social warmth, Mr. Federal Chancellor? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Is it social warmth in Austria that we have the most expensive drugs in Europe, with the highest tax, whose price now increases you by applying in the Committee once again, because a tax on the drug pack is coming, Mr. Bundeskanzler? Is it social warmth that you, with the change in the law that we adopted yesterday in the framework of the Budgetary Support Act, increase all fees throughout the country? Is it social warmth, Mr Bundeskanzler, that although corporate profits increase enormously and galoply, but labour income remains either the same or only minimal, and that you tax these increases of labour incomes away and nothing remains? Is the social warmth, Mr. Bundeskanzler? Is it social warmth – and this is one of the supreme organs – that you set up a women's ministry of 8 million, of which the minister alone costs € 760 000 in four years, but women's income remains dramatically below those of men? Is it social warmth that you do not make any tax reliefs for companies that re-establish women after an educational or educational career with higher income, higher salary? Mr. Federal Chancellor, it is social warmth that You decide a minimum wage in the country of € 850 net, but at the same time these people, who have to work hard for this € 850, face a minimum security of € 726 – even for the lack of time, even if you don't work? – Is this the new social warmth of SPÖ? Mr Bundeskanzler, it is social warmth that in this country, contrary to your announcements – you always say that there are no more pensioners who have less than the minimum pension; that is wrong, Mr Bundeskanzler! – 150 000 women who are over 60 and have no pension at all because they do not have retirement periods in the past due to child rearing? They always forget! Mr Bundeskanzler, is it social warmth if I put the first action in the youth field by avoiding apprentice protection, that I facilitate the dismissal of apprentices? This is your program that you have after 100 days! [[Abg. Who has forgotten these 150,000 in the last five or six years?]] This is not social warmth, Mr Bundeskanzler, but the Social Democrats have resigned from a responsible social policy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You don't care about the SPÖ anymore, because you only have one topic, and that's: Eurofighter, Eurofighter, Eurofighter, Eurofighter! That's your theme, but you don't care about social issues at all, that's not your area, that's yours – you just disappointed people. This is also reflected in this budget, which is inconceivable, does not give evidence of creativity and in some parts is even dangerous – where you are in the European middle field and not at the top of where you are making debts, and yet people like the red-black vampires are sucking out the money sticks, sucking out the money, so that you can use it for whatever. Like the red-black vampires in Transylvania, because you apparently see Austria as that, you can settle with your budget policy on the wallets. We don't want to. At the same time, however, the following happens: It starts quietly and secretly in various areas a recoloration action – the red and black post chess in its most original forms, worse than in the nineties! [[Abg. Oil: After hello! Watch out!]] It's even worse than ever. Within a short time: At the ÖBB is recolored, when you connect, you have created instead of three now four boards, two red, two black ones. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] Because you couldn't agree with the Climate Fund – you don't really like it either, Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen – two managing directors, one red and one black – cost “only” the double, but we did the red and black post chess. And Seibersdorf – who will come out again, who will come back to the surface? Hannes Androsch's back! The Red Minister of Finance gets a post. Seibersdorf will be handed over to him, wonderful. We're already waiting for what's going on in the next few days. That's not a policy. You should finally make a tax reform instead of providing people with posts here and enjoying the social cold. That's what we're demanding: Down with the wage tax, down with taxes on drugs, relieve commuters, relieve families and finally – Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer, constantly talk about it, but we have nothing here – introduce the investment wage model that we demand that employees can share in the success of the companies as well as the companies themselves. They should earn more, and they would earn more if you were to introduce a tax-privileged investment wage model available to employees. Mr Vice-Chancellor, another issue that is important: You also save in the wrong place, because you save on the security of the country, and that in a current situation where we have 70 crimes per hour in Austria – a record number! 8 per cent more crimes, in Vienna alone 21 bank attacks, 20 apartment breaks on average, we have daily in Vienna. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] [[Abg. Street: 20 per district!]] And what are you doing? – You cut the police spending! Now I can remind you of your statement – you have misinformed Parliament – the Minister of Finance in his budget speech – I quote literally: “For example, today 26 884 executive officials are responsible for security and order in Austria. These are around 206 police officers more than 2006.” This claim is wrong, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer! You have misinformed Parliament! This was reflected in the Committee's deliberations. Not a single policeman anymore you have on the street, but less because you have to subtract those who are in education, at the academy or in training courses – I come to 700. 700 officials less on the street, at a time when crime is rising massively and we need 3,000 more officials in Austria and not less! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kößl.]] – Parliament misinformed, saves security, we reject it too. That's not a good thing, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Last item on the subject Security: They have put forward an interesting proposal – now we are making a small stand test for the ÖVP. Mr Vice-Chancellor said only two days ago that he would like to have a professional ban on sexual criminals. – Bravo, that is what we have long called for, and that is why we are bringing this very request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. You'll get the minimum security.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] You agree! This is the test for the ÖVP. Within 24 hours of the announcement by your new partyobmann You have the opportunity to express your views today, and at the end of the budget debate you can agree to this motion for a resolution, which is important and which we acknowledge. Sexual offenders have lost nothing in professions where one has to do with children! That's what we want. [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] I am delighted, Mr Vice-Chancellor, whether your group will also agree to this request. One last point: Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, you have spoken about the OMV and the Iran business. I am going to be perfectly in line with you in this regard, which is a right and supportive thing in the sense of the Austrian economy, but on the other hand, you have to take care of the nuclear programme. But there is a second topic, on which I also expect an opinion from the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor, that is the BAWAG. It is simply unacceptable that a US-American fund and a US-American government here in Austria, a bank in Austria, in Austrian possession, prescribes who is allowed to be a customer and who is not. This is unacceptable, and I am surprised, Minister of Finance, that you have not yet given a detailed and clear opinion on this issue, because this not only contradicts human rights and is therefore reprehensible and repudiate, but it is also an attack and a evasion of Austrian banking secrecy, because original customer data, namely the data of origin, are used against these customers. That is, the banking secret is also on the test stand here. We have therefore turned on financial market supervision and filed a complaint, and we want to make it clear that the Americans here in Austria, in a self-determined free country, cannot choose who is a customer. For who are the next? Is it the Libyans? Are they the Syrians? And maybe if it doesn't fit the Americans, then the Russians who can't be more customers? That's absurd! Today, the Cuban ambassador in Austria held a press conference in which she opposed. She has our fullest support because that can't be. I expect from an Austrian government, which also stands for a liberal, open, free economic policy, a clear commitment to such American dirigism, against such pressure. On the other hand, we must defend ourselves in the sense of a free financial area and a banking market in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8168	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8246	Now, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8267	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A very interesting debate on the budget, which has so far been best characterized by: Those speakers of the opposition, who have dealt with the real budget, such as Professor Van der Bellen, have obviously made it difficult to be really very critical of this budget, and those who have said: Budget is budget, but I am not at all interested, I am talking about something quite different!, of course, have done much easier than Mr Westenthaler. If you've heard what he's presented here today, you have to say: Mr Westenthaler, please read the budget before commenting on it next time, because what you said has nothing to do with the budget at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we are in one very – I know he does not tolerate that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Superiority! That's the only thing you can be superlative to play high school teachers! Chief Teacher of the Government Bank!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Haughtiness comes before the case!]] We can admit that we are in a happy situation. We have a good economy, especially with our Central and Eastern European neighbours. Fortunately, the Austrian companies in Central and Eastern Europe are very active, so they are bringing some of the growth there to Austria. Fortunately, we also have an economic recovery in the Federal Republic of Germany, with one of our main trading partners. We have a favourable world economic situation, so that economic growth in Austria can continue to continue at a high level, primarily supported by the export economy that is present. In such a situation, of course, it is much easier to make a budget than in a situation where there is an economic recession. But no reason to be sad, I would say, if we were glad that the economic conditions are as they present themselves today, and we are trying to make the most of them together. What does it mean to “make the best of it together ”? – On the one hand, we have also experienced in the past of the past that economic growth has not been implemented directly in the form of a reduction in unemployment. This is happening in a very, very clear way now, especially because of the fact that the economy has, of course, reached capacity limits in the meantime, where the existing staff will no longer be able to cope with all the increases. There is therefore a huge demand for labour force, which also has an effect in the form of a reduction in unemployment in Austria. We must continue to pursue this path consistently if we want to achieve our central objective of reducing unemployment by 25 percent at the end of this legislative period in Austria. It is therefore crucial that the people in Austria who do not yet have employment are able to take up the jobs offered on the labour market through additional qualifications, new qualifications. Therefore, only a forced qualification policy is the means to benefit from the economic upturn to reduce unemployment – and that is exactly what we agreed at the beginning of this year's first government clause – in order to ensure that the economic upturn leads to a lasting decline in unemployment in Austria, especially youth unemployment, because economic justice begins with the possibility of every individual to find a job. That is precisely what we as the Federal Government want to make our contribution! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP.]] The Second, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen: All analyses of world economic development have shown that, of course, there is an ever-increasing disparity between wages and salaries in a context of globalisation and stronger growth, not only in Austria, but that is a worldwide situation. This has also led to the fact that the wage rate has been general in recent times – not only in Austria! – despite economic growth, it has not developed positively. That is why we have considered how a government, together with the social partners, can contribute to a correction. We have therefore agreed in an overall package of measures with the social partners that in Austria there is a minimum wage of €1,000 per month for full-time work, because we expect it to be – and that is the essential point! – that the deregulation of wages is limited down. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: 850!]] That is a very important point! The link between this minimum wage in Austria and increased demand for work has the advantage that this will also lead to a higher proportion of employees in economic wealth. This is a kind of justice policy, as we understand it: that the more than 3.3 million employees in Austria, who contribute to value creation every day in the economy, with the economy, also get their fair share of it. That is exactly what we understand under justice policy, Mr Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, with regard to the question of social symmetry: The system of minimum social security, which we want to introduce in Austria, has nothing to do with any social hammock. No, it should lead to the remobilization of all people who are vulnerable to poverty or are acutely affected by poverty, because it is not about paying for work. We also do not want people to fall into Lethargy because they are poor, but rather, to the contrary, show a way out of poverty. It is therefore intended to open up, as far as possible, a return to the first labour market, and the second, a return to training and the third, if not possible, to a kind of non-profit community employment. In other words, this minimum guarantee is linked to the fact that someone is also willing to make a contribution himself to get out of this situation. I am convinced that this will be one of the most innovative models of poverty reduction throughout Europe and a real contribution to social warmth, which you unfortunately have to miss, Mr Westenthaler. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the issue of health policy is concerned – this is very important! – we have been thinking about a variety of phenomena in the past, and it is true that for people with good income, the recipe fees are not a major problem. But there are people who deserve less. Among pensioners in particular, there are many who have only a small pension and are therefore very much affected by the cost of medication. Therefore, we have agreed that the monthly cost of medication, the amount of self retention of medicines, will be limited to 2% of net income. I would like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that Ladies and gentlemen: This is a social policy milestone! Then: This means, for example, that a pensioner who has 1 000 € per month will not have to spend more than 20 € per month on medicines in the future. However, these are very often people who, if chronically ill, spend 80, 100 or more euros each month for self retention. This means a real relief of the situation for these people. This is a social policy milestone that we should be proud of together. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The question is rightly asked: What are the main activities or tasks of a federal government when the economy works well anyway and we have a good economic growth? – I believe that the answer we have to give to this is as follows: We should ensure that growth in Austria is a more sustainable one. It should not be so that, if the international economy is going down, also those in Austria, economic growth is breaking down immediately. That is why we need to take measures today, of which we have the impression that economic development is sustainable. What measures are these? – Of course, additional investment in research and development planned in 2007/2008 is immediately effective to a certain extent, but with regard to the quality of our economy and the growth perspective, the effects will only be fully developed thereafter. Of course it is true that if we invest probably €11 billion in total in the high-level road network and railway development, which immediately creates work, but is even more essential that the economic location is upgraded and sustainable growth generated. Of course, if we invest in education today and limit the maximum number of students by 25, invest more in day-to-day schools and in early education, which has a certain impact on the workplace today, but in principle, the full impact of such measures will only develop if these children and young people also come into the labour market. That is to say, the main task we have to fulfil today is to contribute to the sustainable growth in Austria through our priorities in the budget. It is therefore precisely such measures that have priority in this budget. This is a real provision for the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I know that there are so many who consider: Could we not now make a tax reform, where economic development is so good anyway? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You said that yourself!]] So if we analyze this question, we have to say: At present, economic growth is good. It is likely that the wage increases achieved at the autumn wage round will also be very good in view of the good economic situation. So, at what time should we make a contribution to increasing domestic demand and increasing purchasing power not only for each individual, but also making a national economic contribution? I think that this is most useful if the economic economy is somewhat flatter, i.e., in some cases in 2010. It is therefore appropriate to make a tax reform, because this tax reform does something good not only to everyone but also does what the Economic Research Institute has recommended to us, namely to stimulate domestic demand and purchasing power as an additional factor for economic growth in Austria. That's why I'm saying: A tax reform in 2010 makes sense not only for the individual taxpayer, but also for economic development in Austria. That is why we are going to carry it out exactly at this time. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, considering the overall picture of this budget in the light of economic development, it can be seen that Austria is taking the path of qualitative growth, with very strong emphasis also on modernising our economy, which is mainly reflected in an increase in productivity. That is a very important point! Then: If one has read the final report of the International Monetary Fund on the state of the European economies, one has noticed that there are quite a few countries that have economic growth, which is very impressive, but which is partly built on thin ice. Without mentioning individuals now, but if, for example, economic growth is based only on a huge boom, there are no higher levels of productivity increases and the whole is accompanied by a huge current account deficit – and such economies exist in Europe – then it may well seem today that these countries have a high economic growth, but they will face enormous challenges in the future. On the other hand, our economic growth is characterised by a current account surplus, enormous productivity development in our country and export-based growth, which is primarily proven in international competition. Therefore, this economic growth is not only high, but it is also a qualitative economic growth that we have here in Austria. That is exactly what we need if we want Austria to be a country where good wages can be earned in the future. And that is exactly our goal, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel referred to a very important question, namely the question of energy security and security of supply. Our economy is energy-intensive, and what is happening worldwide in the field of energy policy is probably one of the most pressing issues we have to address, and therefore we must work at different levels. One is to guarantee security of supply. The key to this is to have a diversification of the suppliers, and therefore it is alternatively. The way the OMV, for example, goes is alternative if we do not want to be unilaterally dependent. It has failed to have several suppliers than only one. Therefore, both the attempt to get a deal with Iran and the leadership of Nabucco as well as the traditional cooperation with the Russian energy partners are positive. This division is important so that we are as independent as possible in our energy supply. That's what we think is the right way. We will not allow ourselves to continue this path through interference or attempted interference from the outside. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The second point in energy policy, which is very important, is of course the question: How do we develop the structure of our own energy production? And it is clear that we need to invest even more in renewable energy and in sustainable energy production than before, because this creates greater independence. That's perfectly clear. And the objectives set out in the government programme are also extremely ambitious. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Therefore, whether it is biomass, hydropower or wind energy, it will be a little difficult, economic, but also there in the case of solar energy, that we strengthen our efforts in all these areas so that we are set up at a wider level and become more independent from our country by means of renewable energy. The third important point: The energy we produce must also be managed. So if we consider that today – and this is an open problem – we are also very active in the field of energy processing, the increase in energy efficiency, for example through better utilization of our storage power plants, then the energy generated must also be brought to the line, and without a closed system of a 380 kV line in Austria, ladies and gentlemen, this will be difficult. One is to produce the energy, but the other is not to waste them by not being available. It is part of the equipment of a modern industrial and service location that we complete this ring line throughout the country, because only that way can the overall connection of energy production and distribution be made possible. To this end, we should make a common confession, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The fourth point, which is very important for energy, is to increase energy efficiency. This is one of the tasks that the new Climate and Energy Fund will have, in particular, where efforts are being made to develop measures, including scientific research, so that we can strengthen energy efficiency in Austria, because this will also guarantee our independence in this sector. I believe that if we look at the overall package, large-scale infrastructure investments, the large energy policy announcement we are carrying out here, we note that this Austrian Federal Government as a whole sets a high level of security of supply, because this is the basis for a prosperous economic location in the future. And I am glad, even though some of these things should only be done in ten years, that this government is confessing to these major projects, because we will need them in Austria not only today but also in the future. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such a budget debate, which gives us the opportunity to discuss a lot of things and make many comparisons, could become a creative debate this year. Then: If a country has relatively little current economic concerns, it should actually be a good situation to think about it and exchange different ideas in such a way as to develop this economic location even better. I understand, of course, that oppositional business also needs to be done, that's part of it, but I'd say we don't have an incentive... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] You mean I did better than you did before. That may be. But I didn't want to make this comparison. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would think that in this discussion something can be gained together if all their ideas can be different, where we can set different, stronger priorities, because I believe that such a good situation should not actually be used to say that it is in fact much worse than it looks, but one should actually use this good situation together with the Austrian population, which is extremely optimistic in this year, and already create the foundations for growth and employment in the future. That's exactly what this double budget represents! And I invite you to follow this double budget, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8459	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8523	Madam President. Dear Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I think there is not so little agreement on the double budget 2007/2008, at least what has affected the speeches so far. For the first time, it has been an anticyclic budget for at least seven years, probably for ten years. That means that the mistakes of the past will not be repeated to make a procyclical budget policy, and I think so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What we agree on is that new emphasis will be placed on those policy areas that have been neglected in recent years. This is obvious in the field of education: the reduction of the number of students as the first measure, at the universities a significant increase in the 2007 budget, the programme “1,000 young researchers for universities”, the first steps towards the overall school – these are certainly only first steps, and that is nothing that can be seen from today on tomorrow. The last few days, however, show the clear movement as well. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But movement alone is too little!]] If someone thinks that this is the way it has been in the past, and that would be the same as the "Gehrer-Schule" and the education policy, now would not move in a completely different direction than in recent years, he must have quite dark glasses and have a fairly enlightened party political view. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are talking about social matters. Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, whenever you talk here and are available to us here, I understand why you are seventh in Vienna at the National Council election – according to the list Martin, after the KPÖ! – were. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... start small!]] That shows itself. They act here as a representative and demand social warmth, criticise the government for measures it has taken in the social field that you have not put into practice for seven years. They say: They're just doing it once! Let's see what social warmth and social cold is! Let us look at what we decide on our own yesterday and today, namely the increase in student aid by 15 percent! Is this social cold? You didn't do this once. I say: This is social warmth, social justice! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have not made the increase in scholarships by 12 percent. We'll do it. Is this social cold now? - I can only laugh at that. We have increased the penalty rate by 10 percent, even more than that, we have expressly also a negative effect for those people who earn less and therefore pay no tax, decided yesterday and thus almost doubled the negative tax effect. So, is the social cold? – I say: It's social warmth! What did you do? – You have increased prescription fees and you have reintroduced or increased the retention. What are we doing? – We cover this in the drug sector to 2% of net income. So, this is social cold? - Well, I can only laugh. This is social warmth, as it is actually lived by this federal government – in common! And this is a change of course, because in recent years we have had nothing in this direction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let us look at what is happening in the field of environmental policy! The Greens have always rightly demanded that there be a change in climate policy. It is not, as Mr Rossmann said at a press conference on Monday, that there are only €50 million for climate protection for 2007, there are €200 million that exist! [[Abg. May. Rossmann: I said for the climate protection fund! Listen more closely!]] And it's not €150 million for 2008, but it's almost €300 million – in fact, the double of what you said here. You can discuss whether too little has happened in the past. We can talk about it. It is clear, however, that there are now very clear changes in the emphasis on how much money is used and in which direction. I do not always agree with everything, and I also see criticism of what the Federal Government is doing, but what is clear is that it is no longer a side-by-side issue here, not just a pure PR-rail, but that there is serious money being taken over here and that Austria is being seriously worked on here, so to speak, from the climate-protection-closure-light and is making a policy with which we can hopefully achieve the Kyoto goal. Above all, the medium and long-term perspective – and I have already said that in the opposition – is important, and since the changeovers have been made exactly in this direction. I believe that where we may not agree, that is the view of the past. I do not want to have zero discussions now, whether we are building on the past or not. Of course, one builds on what was in the past. This is an absolutely empty discussion. That's a logic, but that doesn't mean you see the past as good. I do not think it is necessary that SPÖ and the ÖVP now agree on what has been good over the past seven years. Some of us must now look to the future, to the double budget 2007/2008 and also to the following years. Perhaps another sentence on tax reform: I do not think we can say today to what extent that will be. It would also be wrong to say this today because it depends on the economic situation, and it cannot be anticipated. Essentially, I believe that we are also improving a lot in the tax structure and that we are afterwards making sure that the tax system becomes socially fairer than it is today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8618	Next come Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8639	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! There is rarely anything in the discussion about public budgets, which is so often called for as often as the administrative reform, the state reform, the budgetary reform, but obviously everyone seems to understand anything else, or in many cases there is a confusion. When I look at the past few years, I have the impression that in many cases personnel reduction has been confused with administrative reform, because what has happened has in many cases been a very strong reduction in personnel until 2004 – in 2005 and 2006 it has already been different. However, little has happened at the level of administrative reform. I'm not saying anything, but little happened. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel has already mentioned the E-Government project, there has been a reform in the financial administration. But what will happen in the coming years, Minister of Finance Molterer? The stability programme talks about improving the efficiency of public administration. It also sets out quantitatively how much administrative reform is to be saved. There you will find on page 17 – administrative reform including reduction of discretion expenditure – a savings volume of € 260 million this year and € 380 million next year. If we deduct €200 million for discretion expenditure, we will be staying €60 million this year and €180 million next year. The stability programme does not mention which projects are involved. There is only on page 15: "The administrative reform is further driven by various additional projects in the individual ministries (eGovernment). Yes, the eGovernment cannot be anything that happens in the framework of the administrative reform. What projects are these, Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance? Second point: Administrative reform and state reform. Here too, the relationship between federal, state and local authorities is often confused. The administrative reform II, which should regulate relations between the federal, state and local authorities, was a political agreement on the November 2005 - if I remember correctly. But this project has fallen asleep. Nothing happens. Nothing happened! When you look at and listen to how far the negotiation is going to take If the state reform is successful, the results of which are to be presented in the summer, it can be seen that no agreement is likely to be reached at the level of the distribution of competences. But if no agreement is reached here, then there is a core element of a state reform – if not the core! – away, namely the merger of the responsibility of expenditure, tasks and revenue. If I can now come back to the administrative reform at the federal level: A substantial project that could push forward the administrative reform at the federal level would be the budgetary reform. A government template has already been introduced in the last legislative period – with the aim of strengthening medium-term financial planning, and with the aim of transition from input-oriented to output-oriented, results-oriented consideration. Mr Finanzminister, where is this government template, which could make substantial progress in administrative reform at the federal level and possibly also at the level of the countries and communities? Second point: What are the key challenges for budgetary policy today? – Well, there is the task first of all to make more money available for the future tasks in the country, to make more money available for social security. However, it is also a question of preparing for future economic downturns. And it's going – and that's very important! – to make a change in relation to taxes, in particular the tax structure. The key question to address to this double budget 2007/2008 is the following: Does this double budget meet these challenges? . I think that with regard to future expenditure, it first looks like climate change, yes, we are at the end of the European comparison. In the field of schools, the Pisa study has given us a bad result. University expenditure is not 2 per cent of gross domestic product, as proposed by the European Commission, but only 1 per cent. In the context of childcare, we lack 50,000 to 60 000 care places. If we want to become number one in Europe – as you have announced, Minister of Finance! – then that is not enough to ensure this future expenditure – and this also applies to climate protection, Mr Krainer! With a view to social security and an urgent solution in the field of care, €62 million per year and €137 million per year are available under flat-rate care. Is that enough for these two areas? Well, that's not going to happen! And you, Minister of Finance, said in the Committee on Budgets that there should also be money for the disabled. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have spoken about such a great solution in the context of social security. That's not gonna make us jump far. In addition, countries have so far refused co-financing in the context of care insurance and basic social security. There is still a lot of work to be done. Positive – yes, that's right! – can certainly be reported there on the question of upgrading for a future economic downturn. However, it is questionable whether the entire part of the additional tax revenue from the growth dividends of the past year and this year should be used for stabilising households, i.e. reducing the budget balances, or whether a part of it would not be better done if it were to invest in future expenditure. Let's go to infrastructure expenditure: Here 60 and 120 million € are provided in the package provision. Nothing is being built – not a single rail project! – but this requires additional debt, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance! It would be fine if, in this legislative period, we could perhaps agree that the financing of infrastructure expenditure is something that we can and should finance in terms of debt, and which is also well-foundable and gender-friendly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Finanzminister, perhaps we can agree that it would be useful to be in Austria, but also at the European level, for the so-called “golden rule” and to strive for balanced budgets where current revenue and current expenditure are concerned. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now come to the question of the tax structure: What's the starting point here? – Well, the share of green taxes remains low – also with the increase in mineral oil tax. When it comes to the burden of labour, we are number one in Europe – yes, we are number one, but that must not remain so! With regard to the share of capital taxes, we are in turn final or below the last in Europe. What is being done here in this double budget to catapult Austria to the number one? - Nothing! It does not follow the recommendation of the Institute of Economic Research, which I say: We need a relief from the labour factor today, and we need to strengthen property-related taxes in this country and not the abolition of inheritance tax and probably also the gift tax! Finally, in order to cope with climate change expenditure, we also need a higher share of environmental taxes. This tax-structural reform project should not be expected – I say – now. Therefore, if we do not tackle these tasks and if we do not invest more money in future expenditure, even in the light of the fact that these future expenditures are crucial to growth and jobs, if we no longer do so, we will not be able to become the number one in Europe. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8751	The next item is the speech by Mr Jakob Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e8776	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Government! If you have experienced 24 budget debates just like me and I am so much in favour of 25 and 26 today. I do not want to appreciate the budget that 2007 and 2008 may be devoted to, but I may also say: I have not yet experienced such a moderate debate – I can only congratulate Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister for Finance and also his State Secretary. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Come on!]] Clearly, it is a good basis for a serious policy, which is based on the future, ladies and gentlemen. New priorities: Research, education, infrastructure, climate protection – just as a keyword – not to forget social security and improvement, economic and local measures, a solid policy for agriculture and forestry, rural areas – Mr Haimbuchner, you will agree with me! – a reasonable environmental policy. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: “Sustainability”!]] I was very pleased that Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer pointed out the need for energy supply. – Yes, I am absolutely committed to this, because it was presented by our clubman Dr. Schüssel quite clearly and precisely the need for protection on several legs. I am also of the opinion of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that it is necessary to secure the management of the ring in Austria for the 380 kV line, but I say: As long as a few waspsards or the quail king prevent such important projects, some would have to question the value. What's more important, ladies and gentlemen? Because you should think a little bit too! Of course, nature conservation is important – no question at all! – but with measure and goal! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Nature conservation is important!]] [[Abg. Grill: Nature conservation is also important!]] And first of all, I still have the protection of human beings, Mrs Colleague, so that it is clear. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is a stable budget that is cast into figures. When I listen to the previous contributions of the opposition – especially that of the clubman Van der Bellen – then I am convinced that there will be sharper statements of words from the government's own ranks. He might have been one of us, so moderate he was. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Well, but certainly not!]] At my colleague Strache I thought: Stadler, where are you? [[Rejoicing with representatives of the ÖVP.]] In his contributions, at least there was still a substance behind it. I missed it today, ladies and gentlemen. This was a political exercise because it had to be that way. Wherever we would go, the opposition would also praise or even wipe out, my very much revered Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's what you do anyway!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Obligation defense is that!]] Let's get to the point. The fact is: Austria's good at it. There are quite differences in the assessment, also differences in the federal states. I am pleased that my Federal Republic of Austria is one of the best in the ranking – Benchmark. The tax inputs burst strongly, so one reads in the headlines of the media. If it were different, they would talk about a missing policy of the past years. Now you suddenly have the opinion: Yes, this economic policy was obviously not so bad. In spite of all criticism, we knew that some people in this House, who can enjoy it today – that was also true, ladies and gentlemen! How was the Koest reform critically noted, the privatization of the Voest scourged? How were other areas presented and so almost scandalous? Today it is said to be the dividend of recent years. Yeah, it's the dividend. An old farmer knows, ladies and gentlemen! From the agricultural sector: To be able to drive a good harvest home, you first have to bring out the seed, prepare accordingly! And here we see today the political harvest of the last years – that was once again held, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Such a view of the site is nothing but an indirect assessment of the political framework. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The farmers have been introduced in series in the last 20 years!]] And how are these political conditions? – Austria has been excellently represented in international competition, which has mastered globalisation very well. Our country is now presenting itself as an excellent international economic and financial investor, as a standing place. It is a pleasure to note that external relations are dynamic. Let us be proud of the activities of our companies in the countries of the East, ladies and gentlemen! I have here the German “Handelsblatt” of 31. March of this year on which it stands: ‘Germany is falling back’. The Austrians are here at the top. – I don't need any more praise. That's great, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There was then the pathetic attempt of the FPÖ – also of the BZÖ Klubobmanns Westenthaler, who did not think much, although he could be quite proud of the past years – to appear here as Grand Master of the sharp points. [[Abg. Neugebauer: “Shrew Pointe”!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] [[Call the ÖVP:... Dreschflegel!]] But whoever listens to this song knows what it's all about. The economic contributions are to be cut off under the title: “Conceptless, helpless, unsuccessful. ” Ladies and gentlemen, obviously a guarantee letter for further years of opposition! - Well, then it should stay that way. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also interesting to hold something on to that area, which is always addressed, the reduction of bureaucracy. This is remarkable: Everyone is for red tape reduction – except for him himself! Then “a new law belongs to it, ” for that is a“ contemplation, ” which “must be legally secured. ” Let us be honest and compare ourselves in the international field as far as the real bureaucracy is concerned: Yes, we have bureaucratic areas, no question at all, but the Austrian bureaucracy is not as bad as it is sometimes presented. There are also many things to improve, but in relation to Germany we live on an island of the Blessed! That is also true, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] By Klubobmann Strache was still noted to the shadow economy Critical. In this context, it should be noted that: If you subtract your party guests, companies and so on those foreign fellow citizens who consider you very critical, the company impressions would collapse – take note of this too! It wouldn't be possible! – We should therefore also be a little more reasonable with our foreign employees, with their fellow citizens, that would not harm us. Otherwise, I find comfort in your contributions to those articles that a very profiled opposition politician once wrote. It was this colleague Monika Langthaler from the Green Club, and she was quite excellent. She once said: ‘Sometimes there are also stupid proposals from the opposition.’ There is nothing to add to this, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9010	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! If I may briefly refer to the comments made by my previous speaker, Mr Auer: What you've offered here in comparisons shows exactly what you've been doing for years: They compare with Germany! – Germany is just far behind us in economic growth and in economic terms! You want to become the number one in Europe – and there you compare with someone in the last third, while at best we are in the middle third?- Oh, my God! - I already have to praise you: The courage you have put to this statement, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, that you will be number one. Courage is truly praiseworthy. If you assume that we are now at best in the middle-third of the European Union as far as economic growth, unemployment and some other figures are concerned, then you have... – Yes, of course! [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: In unemployment?- Oh, my God!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle Mag. Molterer.]] You will have to tell me today how your data are based on the statistics available in the Federal Ministry of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Obviously he blackened them!]] But I come to this question later. Last night after my speech Here you are praising the budget over all its dimensions and stressing the sustainability that you stress over and over again, and saying how targeting this budget will be in the course of a tax reform in 2010, which you will then plan. They then also tried the experts – there were five in the number – who were available to us all, to all of us 27 Members present in the Committee on Budgets and who answered questions and also spoke about their assessment of the budget. Mr Finanzminister! You said here yesterday that all the experts thought it was a so-called superbudget. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] – You must not forget that 27 Members were present. That is to say, the 156 other Members sitting here in the room must have the feeling that you have spoken the truth and that we really have a superbudget here, which will be future-oriented for this legislative period. I can correct your presentation here, because I was in the same committee – I was originally not quite sure if we were talking about the same committee, but because of the attendance list and the parliamentary protocol, I had to find that we were in the same committee. You know, Mr. Finanzminister, already Emperor Franz Joseph kept it so that he liked to hear only what was interested in him; in other words, what did not interest him and where criticism points existed, he was hard to hear. Obviously you took over. Your previous speaker, Mr Auer, must have seen this as he said it was a great debate and everyone has praised the budget that way. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: I was in the Budget Committee longer than you were!]] He heard only half of it, and not all that was needed. I would like to quote the following, first of all, about the statements made by Markus Marterbauer, to which it is said, among other things: “The high burden of the labour factor was seen as a central problem by torture farmers.” “To support the family, Marterbauer noted that the money is misimbursed in Austria.” [[Abg. Jakob Auer: But he also said that... are better!]] “Herbert Walther considered the budget to be the continuation of the previous budgets” – I am surprised by the SPÖ, which has always strongly criticized the previous budgets – “with some accents” – which he sees positive – “in growth-oriented areas. The scopes that arise from the higher revenue should not, however, lead to new desires without delay," he “warned. ” [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: How straight it does!]] In principle, he also criticized the additional burden of labour on the factor and that the burden on capital continues to decline – which also hardens our thesis and our accusation to you over and over again, that you are actually lobbyist of the large industry and industry in general and have nothing left for small and medium-sized enterprises at all. “Dieter Mandl did not find any direction-setting approaches in the context of positive economic development and did not strengthen the future relationship in the present double budget. In particular, he missed measures in education policy and health and said that he could not take any account of the budget regarding the preparation of a future tax reform or administrative reform. Notable for Mandl were family policy objectives too.” “Gerhard Lehner” – so that we can talk about all of them; then there is another – “as if the estimates of revenue, which are based on the double estimate, were quite realistic, but also meant that you shouldn’t already hope for additional revenue now.” – That’s just to your example, since you want to point to a tax reform in 2010. And "Oliver Ginthör said that 3 percent growth" – and that's what all experts have said; the 3 percent are not bad to not talk bad, but the top in Europe has economic growth, which is between 4 and 5 percent – "should give a chance to set clear emphasis in the field of education, but the scope of the budget should not be sufficient. The problem, in his opinion, is that the tank of fixed expenditure has still not been reduced too much," said the Austrian government budget, among other things, stressed and repeatedly addressed the interest-rate burden, "to use the backwind generated by increased tax revenue. Ginthörn warned in this context, however, that tax revenue will continue to swirl in the next few years...” – because you assume it is. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Do you have your own opinion?]] And: ‘If it fails to generate budgetary surpluses, a tax reform 2010 will not be possible.’ I believe, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that will disprove your statements on this budget yesterday. I'll tell you one more thing: We are really only in the middle third in Europe – unfortunately! We could be much further forward if you had the courage to put forward a tax reform for 2008. I ask you here again: Be So Courageous, Be Don't be cowardly, don't hide! Economic growth forecasts are good for this year and will not be broken down in any particular way next year. Now proceed to prepare this tax reform, and correct your budget with regard to 2008 with a tax reform! They thus relieve the middle class, you create additional work, of course you also boost the purchasing power in Austria, which is important to promote economic growth as well, and you also lower the number of unemployed. Another comment on the unemployment figures – and you really have to predict it to me, because you are obviously an accounting genius –: I printed the statistics of the Federal Ministry of Finance at the end of March 2007. There is talk of a total number of non-employed workers of 3.1 million employees. Of these, 237 000 are reported as unemployed. – If you charge this, the unemployment rate is not less than 6 percent. In addition, not quite 60,000 people – that is, 59,000 and a few squeakts – are in AMS schools. If you calculate these, the unemployment rate is between 7 and 8 percent. If you then subtract the job vacancies – we talk about 37,000 – then you will still come to an unemployment rate of 6 percent. – And you stand up every day or every second day or on every occasion and claim that we have an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent in Austria. - Thank you! Calculate this to me and send it to me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9165	Mr Wittmann spoke next. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9187	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I will have to deal with the areas of the Federal Chancellery, Parliament and the Supreme Institutions, but also with sport, and in my remarks I may begin with some comments on the discussion on the reconstruction of this building that has already been opened. First of all, I think it is not appropriate to operate polemics here and to put amounts of €70 million in space. In the last legislative period, 21 million were planned and a deviation of 7 million was discussed. So even if you were to assume the worst case, it would have been 28 million and not 70 million, and that makes a significant difference in expenditure. However, I would just like to remind you that the building, as it stands today, was opened in 1956, and I believe that the budgets of the years before were somewhat more micky than our budgets today, and that it would be time to think of a remodeling of this area, which has not been unchanged since 1956, in our very prosperous legislative period. I believe that one should also have the self-confidence and keep in mind that the top institutions of this Republic and this House also have an external effect and also serve an external representation of Austria and also have a certain commitment to the population. I assume that in the next budget, that for the year 2009, one can ultimately fix the conversion and then not change the amount of money with such measures, because one believes to be a little better if you licensed it down. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: Federal Chancellery. – The Federal Chancellor's Office's budget is particularly characterised by the fact that staff costs remain the same – and thus essentially fall – that the funding of the groups remains unchanged and that the budget changes take place at 442 million because the art and the women's budget have been triggered. To the women's budget a word: An increase of 35 percent is the largest ever – even here a milestone. €3.4 million is intended for the expansion of the eGovernment. I believe that all these approaches are useful in the Federal Chancellor's Office's budget, are economical and that this budget was also designed under the premise of future orientation. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He speaks just as “enraged” as the budget is! It's all completely wreaked!]] One particular concern is also to point out the increase in resources in the administrative court, because of course one has a need to catch up here in order to finally give the administrative court the opportunity to do its work as one of the supreme courts. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The “Glory Before Enthusiasm”, the colleague Wittmann!]] Mr Westenthaler! It is not a matter of making a Kasperl Theatre here, but of an objective discussion. Not as you did – it was more of a Kaspertheater. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But as far as you're concerned, I've never seen that before!]] You wanted to take jokes here that weren't funny, and you talked about something you didn't understand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In other words, essentially one should prefer here an objective discussion of this played emotion which you have demonstrated. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The “Glory of Enthusiasm ”!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And “well prepared”!]] This is about the budget and not about any show deposits you want to give of yourself. It is particularly important for me to point out that, in the field of state reform, a good path has been taken, that a result can be presented by July. And I believe that this result, as it is now apparent, will be quite tangible and we will finally continue here. As a sports official and sports spokesman of SPÖ, I am particularly pleased that in the sports budget, in particular for the European Championship 2008 €24 million – which is a very catchy amount – but also €1.6 million for the application of Salzburg. And finally, I think, we are on a good path in the sports sector, here we are adapting the budgets to those that are necessary. However, I also believe that it will be important to respond to the discussion at the level of gambling monopoly in the course of this legislative period and probably in the autumn, especially in the sports sector, because in Austria all sports activities depend largely on the results of the lottery and gambling, that the minimum limit of € 40 million in the gambling monopoly is now budgeted on 53 million or, in order to expect the result of this year, to rise to 60 million. I believe that, in the course of this discussion, one should anchor a safeguarding of the sports budget in this order of magnitude in the gambling monopoly, so that one can ultimately further promote the sporting event to this extent even if this situation is changed. This debate is to be held and will certainly begin in the next few weeks. All in all, these areas are a budget that is tangible and forward-looking!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9291	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 10 minutes welcome. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9313	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Some Members of the government groups – I believe, too, Mr Auer – have praised the moderate discussion here today. – Well, Moderately from the opposition, of course, because we are making a constructive opposition policy here. . You are grinning, Mr Federal Chancellor, and you know why: because you have designed it a little differently in your time. – But on the other hand, one could also say: moderate or perhaps lustless, namely lustlessly guided by the government parties. And this is in line with all the other government-led debates of recent times – Mr Wittmann, too, has not just sprung ahead of Elan and enthusiasm in his contribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] – Yes, yes, Mr Niederwieser, to the budget. – But we have already discussed this many times before, you can see it again and again: There is no great enthusiasm on the part of the government representatives. And, Mr. Federal Chancellor, because you said to me that you made it better... – Where is he now, the Federal Chancellor? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer telephoned, standing next to the Bureau at one of the hall exits, with his cell phone.]] - Oh, that's it, he's on the phone. All right, then I'll leave this and do it later, if he can listen to me, and now talk about something else, for example about the public service, because the Minister responsible for this is here. The Federal Chancellery is also part of the budget chapter of the Supreme Institutions, and we have discussed very intensively in the past legislative period a reorganisation of public services, savings potential, administrative reform, also very many positive approaches and reforms, but in some areas we have not yet come to an end, such as in the reform of civil service rights. But we were very close to it! I know the union has blocked a lot of things there, just: You were just about to do something. Now I hear, Mrs Federal Minister, that all of this is being pushed back to the long-term bank and one has agreed that there is nothing to agree that there is still any difference in treatment between contract staff and officials, that there are the different pay levels, that there are still no flexible service rights, especially not in the executive field, and that we are likely to postpone this to the next legislative period. After all, they have announced that there should be a survey on a uniform right of service; I am very excited whether this is really happening. Only, as I have heard now, will this happen again, as in the constitutional reform in the silent chamber of the great coalition, and it would not be useful, because this is certainly also an important question for all of us. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that this would be a useful measure, in order to create some kind of incentive to move forward here. We have been waiting for the great initiatives of this federal government – but we have not heard much. The Federal Chancellor is still calling, so I will wait with the things I want to tell him. It was interesting when he meant, for example in the health field there are... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's coming! He's already done!]] Mr Bundeskanzler, welcome, I have waited extra and tried to bridge the time with some other topics until you are back here. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The bridge is a specialty of BZÖ!]] You said you did better in your time. The question is: What did you do better? – At the time, they were opposition politicians who made everything bad, who criticized everything. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: This is unfair!]] This is not unfair, that is the experience we have as an opposition from your time – no, not selective – the worst pension system, the worst health system, the worst budgets, in short: it was all bad. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: A selective perception!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's right!]] All of a sudden, everything's good again. Now, suddenly, you say the opposition is supposed to be constructive. – Yes, Federal Chancellor, we want to introduce ourselves constructively, the question is only: At what time do you mention your things that we can address constructively? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should inform yourself!]] – Haven You learned yesterday how to make actual corrections? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Jarolim) Eurolimchen!]] Then we can also discuss intermediate calls again. They needed two calls – it didn't help! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: For this there are also some who cannot make intermediate calls!]] Yes, that's right, but it's better if you know the Rules of Procedure and stick to them instead of just showing that you can intervene. You can learn that already in kindergarten, yelling out, and God does not need to know a lot. I do not know how long Mr Jarolim has been in the House. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I know you want to distract me, but you will not succeed, because I still come to my question to you: [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Not at all!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: But he succeeds!]] At what time should you make constructive contributions to your statements? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: For example now!]] If, for example, it's called, on 26 May. December 2006, in the middle of the government negotiations – I quote the APA –: “The SPÖ President and future Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer intends to implement a tax reform at the beginning of government work” – at the beginning of government work – “to be stimulated with growth and employment in Austria and to relieve the middle class.” [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Aha!]] This should be at the very beginning of government work. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: That was a false report!]] That was a false report? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Sure!]] Well, you're being quoted there. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Yes, yes, wrong quoted!]] Oh, you're being mis-quoted, that's interesting. But you didn't dementate either. Just, then it's called: No tax reform is coming. That's why I'm saying yes, I want to know what to react to – to Gusenbauer 1, Gusenbauer 2, Gusenbauer 3, Gusenbauer 4? It's always very different. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Now you are confused!]] No, I'm not confused, but the Austrians are confused because you promised so much before the election, even your voters, and broke everything. That is why the Austrians are confused. This is already evident in the opinion polls. But, Federal Chancellor, we would have given you the right. We also believe that there should be a permanent tax reduction, tax reform, because we should not change the whole system from today to tomorrow. That is why in the last legislative period – always against your votes – we have set a whole series of relief measures for the Austrians. That's what you left now. You want to make a tax reform in 2010 – at a time when you are no longer in office. The burdens now coming are in the budget: VAT increase, increase in health insurance contributions, increases in taxes in all sectors. - It's coming right now! But you announce the tax reduction for 2010; as I said, the government's expiry date has certainly already occurred accordingly. It would be necessary, because we should continue to strengthen purchasing power, continue to relieve the economy, where there are opportunities where there is room for manoeuvre in the budget. I know you're having an disturbed relationship. I only remember what you listed at that time – of course, only by chance, because in Upper Austria, country elections took place – when it came to privatizing the voest – the once national economy that has been preparing so many problems. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: That was already partially privatized!]] – Partially privatized: Mr Bundeskanzler, why have you listed such a tinnober if it has already been privatized anyway? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Sales abroad!]] ‘Sale abroad’. What was that sales abroad? – This was one of the most successful privatisation projects implemented by the Federal Government, and you are boasting today that this company is so successful; at that time you startled fears, startled fears at the staff of the Voest. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP]] That's what we blame you. You say today you made such a great policy at the time. What initiatives are there yet? They have not even managed to abolish the inheritance tax, although the Constitutional Court has already implemented it. Or when it comes to the overall school: The entire school now comes in Vienna and Austria. - Great! But we will look very closely at what is coming. An attempt to start an additional education offer, that is all right, just as is planned in Carinthia, but the entire school covering the whole... [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] As an additional offer, Mr Bundeskanzler, but we know very well that you want to order the unit school to be the only form of school for our children, and that is a dangerous threat, Mr Bundeskanzler, especially in the metropolitan area with all the major problems! That's what we'll know to prevent. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New notice from Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] You're so nervous, you can speak again. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: I am not nervous, I am completely relaxed!]] You're completely relaxed? - But you should be tense. You should be tense and tense so that you can work for the Austrians in the future as well. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the BZÖ.]] I think you've fulfilled your sandbox dream, you don't need to do anything now, you don't need to create tension anymore; you don't do that anyway. You are now comfortably sitting in the Federal Chancellor's chair and are pleased that you have achieved this and that your business card "Bundeskanzler der Republik Österreich" is on. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But in this speech no one needs to be tense!]] – Great, that’s done, wonderful – initiatives and ideas come from you, but none, neither now nor at the budget, nor at the debate! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: And you tell me your ideas!]] It's all right, Mr. Federal Chancellor. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: What are your ideas?]] You know what? We're making an appointment now... [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: And you tell me your ideas!]] I will tell you all the ideas you want, but I may also give you a few tips on how to fill this office more offensive and dynamic in the future, with more ideas and more initiatives. We have shown it, Federal Chancellor! Seven years of successful government policy, which you are now benefiting from – with declining unemployment rates, falling budget deficits, growing economic figures and the corresponding positive mood. – You should say that, too, these are the successes of a government that you have discussed and criticized in the ground and the fruits of which you are now living. But that'll be too little. With our ideas, such as the tax reform, such as in the health field with the change of philosophy towards prevention instead of financing the health system, with initiatives in research and development, with initiatives to continue to achieve savings in the public service, and with initiatives to take security policy seriously and not to misuse Party politics, we will drive ahead of us, Federal Chancellor – then if you do what you have done so far: only in the sun of the Federal Chancellor's Office are happy and relaxed. Being relaxed is too little for a Federal Chancellor of the Republic of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9744	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner and colleagues on the creation of a uniform legal form for the Federal Service are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9799	Mr. Mag, Vice-Chancellor, spoke from the government bank. Molterer. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e9820	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. High house! In this debate a lot has already been said, but a little bit about the budget. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's right, yes!]] That is why I come back to it, because that is the real, really important question that Austria is dealing with today, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The question was asked – and rightly so: Against what economic background was this budget prepared for the years 2007 and 2008? That's the real question. [[Abg. Dr Graf: Thank God the Members are still allowed to say what they want, not what you want!]] Mr Graf, I understand that you cannot begin with the economic background, because this requires economic foundations. I would like to try to explain this now in the sense of this permanent process of continuing training, on which we have agreed – also in the parliamentary discussion. First of all: I believe that Austria is – and we can say that right and right – one of the most successful countries in the European Union on the issue of growth perspective. With our growth perspective, we are clearly above the eurozone's average. We're better than the average. That's what we want to be, we want to be above average good. This perspective, with an estimated 3 percent for this year, 2.6 percent for next year, shows: We're right about that. We have a second development, and we are especially proud of that: We have had a falling unemployment rate for more than a year – for about 14 months. We are on the right path towards full employment. Mr. Themessl, if you don't believe it – he's not here now, please tell him: These facts are based on Eurostat's and the Economic Research Institute's accounts. We are with unemployment among the three best countries in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. We are excellent on the road in this regard. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have – and this is particularly important economically – productivity development, which shows the social partners’ attention on the one hand, but above all also the innovative capacity of businesses and workers on the other. This productivity development, ladies and gentlemen, will enable us to achieve this current account surplus. Why? – Because the Austrian economy is competitive, efficient and in international competition it is just excellent. This current account surplus, this productivity, which is at a top level in Europe, is achieved by a very stable development of a monetary value situation, which is a great envy to us. With the economic base of Austria, we are in the upper third of the countries of the European Union, and that is a good thing we are doing. Just against this background, this double budget has been created; of course, on the cautious side, and that is good. We have assumed a little less growth than the researchers predict. Why? – Because it is always reasonable to be on the reasonable side with a budget in the sense of taxpayers. But of course we also use this extremely good economic situation to move our deficits and our debts down. Because the question has emerged – Mr Van der Bellen, also from you –: We expected a general government deficit of 1.7 percent in the 2006 budget estimate, and we expect a general government deficit of 0.7 percent in 2008. So in these two years, it is possible to reduce the deficit from the expected level of 1.7 per cent to a forecast development of 0.7 per cent by a percentage point, to make the right use of economic development – this positive development – rather than inventing new expenditure, which is not known to be based on the economy, but to reduce deficit. We will, of course, do that in the next few years. We strive to achieve this development with minus 0.2 percent and in 2010 with plus 0.4 percent completely right. We benefit from the good economic situation in order to reduce deficits and reduce the debt ratio. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] They have raised the question – and this is also important: What about the deficit? – We have a primary surplus in the budgets since the mid-1990s. In other words, without the interest payment, we would not have any more deficits for a long time, but a surplus. What is the interest payment now? – There have been several claims in the room here, Mr. Strache has spoken of nine commas of € billion of interest payment expenditure. They obviously did not look at the budget. [[Abg. Street: We looked at it very carefully!]] It is 6.9 this year and 6.3 next year, Mr. Strache, so that you can know the facts. Then Van der Bellen asks: What about the falling interest payments and the 0.3 percent of the Stability Pact? – Very simple, Professor! This has two reasons – and we have already discussed this in committee –: First of all, we simply deposit higher interest rate bonds step by step and replace them with cheaper bonds. The interest rate is falling. The interest rate is falling, and that's right. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Why did he rise in 2006?]] And of course the quota, Professor Van der Bellen, too, because at the same time we have an increasing economic growth, which leads to an increasing gross domestic product. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: That's a misunderstanding!]] Economics, Professor: If interest rates are falling and GDP is rising, it is logical that the interest rate and debt ratio are going down. That's right, and that's good. We want to continue this process, too. If economic growth gives us this perspective, then my access – quite openly said – is that we are of course taking advantage of this permissive surplus revenue, in order to further reduce deficits and reduce further debt. We are simply guilty of young people in this country, ladies and gentlemen. This direction must be maintained! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The task of the budget – and I think that is also important – is, of course, also to put the growth impulses in such a way that we have this strength, this stability of growth also in the coming years. In my view, what will this be in the focus? First: I strongly advocate that the Austrian economy, that Austria should benefit from the opportunities of opening up the market in the next few years. I do not think anything of any discussions that are being held here in the House, in particular by you, Mr Strache. I agree that, at a time when we have made the opening of the markets for Austria, for the workers in our country, and where every second euro is already earned in export, we will also be able to take this opportunity in the future. [[Abg. Strache: But Austrian worker protection is important to us!]] If you continue your policy of building fences, building walls, then you do damage to the Republic, then you do damage to the economy, then you do damage to the workers. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen.]] We will take advantage of this opportunity to open up the markets in the future. Secondly, we need a massive boost in innovation, research and development. But I also ask you that we then discuss more openly and honestly. Also with you, Professor Van der Bellen. You can't say on the one hand: Yes, it is true that we are investing in R & D!, but at the same time, one of the important issues of the future, in the field of biotechnology, is constantly on the brake and believes with very emotional arguments that Austria should not be there. I'll tell you: F&E investment means that we want to make the opportunities of modern technologies, not only in the field of communication, but of course also in biotechnology, available to Austrian companies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This means – thirdly – that we also need to be aware of this opening in order to meet competitiveness when it comes to the issue of labour market. The reforms on the labour market must continue, for example, in relation to working time, which we have agreed to, so that we can also strengthen innovation and competitiveness from this point on. Fourth: In the infrastructure it is not only about investment, but also about new forms. I strongly urge that we finally help the principle of Public Private Partnership to break through and that it does not remain on the paper. [[Abg. Street: Down to the 2010 motorway toll!]] But this also means that we must be willing to finally implement these market economy methods. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: The most expensive form of building!]] Of course, the most expensive form – the efficiency tests, Mr Rossmann, will also have to face companies such as ÖBB and Asfinag. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] There are also efficiency criteria there, of course, as well as in the private sector. In energy policy: Everyone says it's about the development of sustainable energy. – But then, I tell you, you also say yes when it comes to concrete projects! Say yes, when it comes to the expansion of hydropower, you also say yes, when it comes to the expansion of the pipes! It is not enough to say yes to the heading that we must say yes to the contents so that we can really move forward. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The administrative reform is, of course, essential, as well as social security. Just today, the Federal Government has made an essential decision, for example in the field of care and care – thanks to Martin Bartenstein, thanks to Erwin Buchinger too – a real innovation that is about to be discussed here in the house. One last question on tax relief. Tax relief comes at the right time! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Every economist tells us the following – and I follow the advice of the economists who say that we now have a very good economic situation, a strong economy: Tax relief for companies and Austrians in order to strengthen purchasing power, we need to see signs – and this is what the forecasts say – that the economy is falling. [[Abg. Strache: Would you not have to boost economic growth earlier?]] Then it is up to the State to strengthen purchasing power and the economy through tax relief. That is what the political house mind and economic reason tell us. [[Abg. Strache: Economic growth should have been stimulated earlier! If we had started earlier, we would have had a higher economic growth!]] Mr Strache, both of us are at home: economic sense and economic reason. That is our measure, the Republic does, it does good for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10050	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Stummful. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10072	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! The budget debate so far has been extremely encouraging to me in several areas. I want to highlight some highlights. There was once the clubman of SPÖ, colleague Cap, in an incredibly refreshing, new modesty. He spoke about the price correction of budgetary policy. 97 per cent of expenditure remains the same, 3 per cent will be changed – a new modesty, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make a point of order. Van der Bellen, who had some passages that were refreshingly honest. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You have spoken about it, Mr Van der Bellen, that you are a former specialist. – Refreshingly honest, I applauded this passage. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] You have also had the beautiful sentence in your speech: I do not know what the government's tax reform will look like in 2010, but I know it will be wrong. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: He didn't say that! He said the budget balances are wrong!]] – You have thereby raised yourself to a level with the legendary Qualtinger who has said: [[Abg. May. Rossmann: The numbers are wrong!]] “I have no idea where I’m going, but I’m going to have to go!” – Complement, Mr Van der Bellen, that was refreshingly honest statements. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I didn't say that!]] This is classical opposition behaviour: I don't know what they're gonna do yet, but it's going to be wrong anyway. – Thank you for this statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: No, he didn't say that!]] Mr. Strache, I admit that I have been a little heavy with you. [[Abg. Strache: You're always hard on yourself!]] I have listened carefully to your remarks and have all the time felt that you would make everything better. – I just don't understand why the voters don't recognize it. From 27 per cent in 2000 to 10 per cent in the previous year, from the second position in this House to the fourth, even from the Green Group! [[Abg. Straight: From 3 per cent to 11 per cent – stick to the truth! You got minus 8 percent!]] It doesn't seem to be so credible that you'd do anything better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also found very encouraging passages with the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor has repeatedly formulated, we are economically in a happy situation. – Yes, Mr Bundeskanzler, we are in a happy situation because from 2000 to 2006 we made a business package 1, a business package 2, a growth and location assurance, a tax reform 1, a tax reform 2 – and we are currently living on it, Mr Bundeskanzler! Thank you many times, an honest statement! We are in the happy position that we can build this double budget on a very successful economic policy over the past seven years. - A very honest statement. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] When I look at the gentle criticism that has come through, the bandwidth was sufficient – the vice-chanc has already said that –: In the case of such a good economy, why do we have a deficit? . Everyone who understands a little bit of budget policy, Mr. Strache, knows that the budget is not a fast motor boat, the budget is a big tanker. [[Abg. Straight: Without tax reduction – a deficit!]] I can't reduce a debt backpack with €7 billion interest on government debt from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Strache: You have only been in the Federal Government for 20 years!]] But one thing I'm telling you: I am willing to discuss data and facts. Please note the following information and facts: Public finances have still done well when the ÖVP is in government. Let us look at the debt ratio, development from 1970 to 1986 increasing from 10 per cent to 45 per cent; [[Abg. Street: For 20 years!]] Debt ratio from 1986 to today: Increase from 45 to 55 percent. In the first case, an increase of 35 percentage points, in the second case an increase of 10 percentage points. [[Abg. And you weren't there?]] Only concrete facts and facts, Mr Strache. You look very surprised, I notice, because you do not know these facts and facts. I was there when we rehabilitated the state finances. We have had those budgets where we have had primary surpluses in all these years. Klubobmann Schüssel has already said it. You know what a primary surplus is? [[Abg. Prince: Explain this to him, please!]] Income/expenditure without interest for public debt – this is a primary surplus. And this is a successful budgetary policy! [[Abg. May. Rossmann: A primary surplus alone is not yet a successful budgetary policy!]] [[Abg. Strache: Which government debt did you repay?]] Your problem is, Mr. Strache, in all modesty, and let's look at the facts and facts, let's not just give phrases of ourselves: You have received enough documents, budget report, explanations about the budget – everything in it, you just need to look into it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The other criticism, which has also come: Actually, that's not art. International economics, there's actually no art, it's all self-evident. – But I am already wondering – economic forecast by 2011 – why all EU economic researchers say that the EU will have an average growth of 2.3 percent by 2011, Germany one of 1.5 percent and Austria one of 2.5 percent. Why are we better than the others? [[Abg. Strache: You forget Denmark, Ireland, Holland, they are better! We're not the best!]] - Because we have made a successful policy, Mr. Strache. Don't shake your head! [[Abg. Street: They have 4 to 5 percent economic growth!]] We are among the Top 3, take note of this! Don't make politics and the country bad, Mr. Strache. You always believe you can change political change. It's not that simple. That's what the voters saw through, I think. One more point, ladies and gentlemen. What are the major concerns in Europe today? – growth and employment. These are the two major, central concerns, in addition to ecologisation, infrastructure and so on. We are better than most, we are below the top 3 in terms of the growth rate of the EU-15. Of course, the new members have higher growth rates, because of course they are based on a much deeper basis. As for employment, we have since April of the previous year – and not since 1. October – the trend change on the labour market. We will have 4.2 percent unemployment rate this year, 4.7. An incredible trend change! Today, 56 000 new jobs, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Street: 6.7 percent!]] This is a successful policy of which people feel something. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we say: the economy, the economic location – what does that mean? This means jobs, that is, income opportunities, and that is social security. [[Abg. Strache: Purchasing power, for example!]] That is economic location, and therefore we are in such a way that we improve the economic location, of course also by strengthening purchasing power with the 2010 tax reform. [[Abg. But there we are weaker than 97!]] On tax reform 2010: Apart from the fact that it should be anticyclic – as the Vice-Cancellant said – we were always so honest to say: We need to work out the scope for a tax reduction. [[Abg. Street: 1,6 billion € More revenue, more taxes that are not budgeted!]] For example, if you do not receive 3 billion tax revenue on the revenue side, you have to save 3 billion on the expenditure side, or you re-enter into the debt trap of the seventies and eighties. - Are we in agreement? Therefore: The scope must be developed. – Your speech was this way: We still have everything to distribute, no matter what it costs; be funny, we demand everything that has accumulated in the desk store in recent years! [[Abg. Strache: You didn't listen!]] Mr Strache, you have already had your chance, and you have given the impression that you know everything better. Unfortunately, reality is different. – Thank God these ladies and gentlemen sit on the government bank!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10413	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10434	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, lawyers! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Decent members of the Federal Government! The mandatory defender – the “best speaker of Parliament” – has left the speaker’s seat in front of me. What has obviously coloured on him is the state of censorship in the blackmail. He experiences this all the time in the Financial Market Committee, and now he is carefully censoring the opposition speeches here. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That's consistent anyway. At the end of the day, we will come to it for a moment. But now on the questions raised in the budget debate. First of all, a few explanatory remarks. Professor Van der Bellen was here told by you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, that he would have messed up a little in the forecast of the budget balances. I would like to draw your attention to this – Mr President, I have done this very stupidly –: Those who regularly mess up are you! It was only asked how high the medium-term preview, where you have practically a deficit path inside without this measure, should be about, because then the deficit in 2010, should then come a tax reform – and in your division it is only a tax reduction –. So demand for medium-term budget planning will probably still be allowed and can only be counter-carriaged by the fact that you constantly confuse the terms. The same applies to the question of quotas. In particular, we have talked about interest rates in absolute terms, and you have here referred the interest rate, Mr Vice-Chancellor. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: I also referred the numbers if you had been alert!]] Yeah, well, that's not a refutation, but just another statement. That should be said so that at the beginning we can understand a few things. But at the heart of the debate. Mr. Klubobmann and Ex-Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel praised here the mild anti-cyclical budget policy, which had now been included, and implicitly pointed out that, in terms of the cyclicity of the budgets, especially the balances, had always been well done in the past. So what he put his finger on was that the so-called zero deficit was reached in 2001, because “wild manner” – Copyright Bruno Rossmann – was not a mild anticyclic program, but a wild procyclical. Perhaps then we will bring out the economists who also said that at the time, if now which is supposed to be at the side of the future, Mr Vice-Chancellor. That's what we'll come to talk about. But what is now – and this is one of the few things – positive is the fact that, in particular, the 2007 budget actually has a slight anticyclic effect, because it is not possible to distribute tax gifts here. But what this is really about is the concept of tax reform. Unfortunately, social democracy has developed too little resistance – obviously also in this matter – that here the phraseality is turned in the direction that tax reform is always one only if taxes are reduced somewhere, at least in the sum. And that's a reform. If it is true that the absolute tax revenue, i.e. the government income structure, should not now be reduced – we can agree on this – then this does not mean that there is no structural reform. Of course, the total level of tax revenue can remain the same, but the structure can be recast. Look, the Wifo White Paper, which was discussed here – and we focus on it in the first place – is half full of suggestions on how this structure could be changed, in order to create more allocal efficiency on many issues, as it is said in the Jargon. This will, of course, have an impact on growth and employment. Instead of that, you want to continue what we have now, and in 2010 – according to your Jargon: then, when we've worked it out – then take down again somewhere, because a little bit of the clientele serve the clientele and there a little bit of the clientele, depending on who then stops at this time, 2008/2009, in the negotiations better slept. That's how we know the great coalition of the past. This is how we are now threatened with making budgetary and so on economic policy. You can't sell this to us as something progressive! This also has nothing to do with the successes of the past, because there is also the fact that many things are simple and touching – how else should it be with a small open economy? – depends on developments in international markets. We should focus on where the domestic economic and budgetary areas are. In this respect, we have different views. That is why it would be necessary for us to clarify the terms once and for all. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] That was, I think, a very moderate criticism, because you don't have to be ashamed now. Don't be stupidly infected by my colleague. After all, we are still coming to the said “censorship activities”. I am just saying two words because they were so prominently represented today, and tomorrow they will play an even greater role in the economic debate, namely: Future markets, job security. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] Yeah, hey! But, please, it's been a long time since you've realized: Where are the most modern technologies? Where do we have to go? Where do we have the greatest opportunities as a small open economy? And in our opinion, in the field of environmental and energy efficiency, you sleep in these technologies, where good approaches already exist in Austria, in spite of its predecessor policy, in principle, the possibilities. There's a lot too little being done! That'll be what we're going to do. Energy – if the budget debate is already due – is: The basic principle is obviously the following: From Monday to Saturday or Friday, i.e. workdays, we welcome the fossil energy sources. Example: Gas. We've got to be there everywhere. It may be that diversification is better – that's right – but climate protection has relatively little to do with how you know. On Sunday, climate protection will be unwinded, so to speak. And just as ambitious or unambitionated, depending on how you want to see it then, your contributions also sound here, Mr. Federal Chancellor. That's not credible. If you want to sell this with the 380 kV line as a contribution to the better use of the domestic energy sources, I have to tell you: [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] As you overlook the fact that these lines exist mainly because of the fact that nuclear power can be transmitted through Austria. [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] Without nuclear power transit, these lines would not be necessary. This has also been recognized in the Steermärkian Landtag once before you fell back there in a grand coalition of harmony. One last point – I promised you; I am unfortunately unable to deal with the Court of Auditors today, but when it comes to control and transparency, this must be mentioned: Mr Vice-Chancellor, I am referring to the blackmail and I would like to give you just one point: In the Banking Committee, an act has been censored, where the title of the diploma thesis has been weakened in the CV of a particular person – which does not matter now. I emphasize: the title of the diploma thesis! That's completely absurd! All the diploma thesis is subject to the ban on publicity, and that is what you have weakened in it. And after that happens, the same officials send such files. [[The speaker holds a sheet in the height on which the whole text is blackened.]] There's zero to see. There's no line left out. The same officials continue to censor. With regard to these officials, who are not even able to recognize that it is massively unlawful and, in fact, official abuse to paint this out, namely the title of a diploma thesis, do you want to explain to us that they are to be trusted if they only supply “black boxes” there? You can deposit that in your party office. That's what it belongs to. But leave Parliament alone with these inadequacy! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to say to you: We will go through line by line with you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and/or with the relevant officials in the committee – and then you will have to sit down – until it is clarified which, in the end, even unconstitutional, have to be done there. This is what we will do if you do not act on your officials now that all the information is available to the two committees. The match will continue!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10541	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10564	Mr President. Top Organ Values! It's not that easy to address the illustrious body behind me in its entirety. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! - That's always the right thing to do. – The budget for Parliament is really well-designed money, I think. But I am not only referring to the construction projects which have been the subject of a number of times today, but particularly to investment in the software of democracy, which is the means used to bring Parliament closer to the population, especially young people. Prerequisite that democracy can work at all are democratically-seen and educated people. And that's why democratic education has to start as early as possible. Efforts in this direction are truly invaluable, such as the 'democracy workshop' initiative of our President Barbara Prammer. The 'democracy workshop' aims to make Parliament more child- and youth-friendly, and it is, so to speak, the answer to the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years and also to the much debated political starveness that should give all of us thought here. The aim of this project is to realize concepts that make guided tours through the house more appealing for children and young people of different ages. And there is also to be an Internet offer for young people. The multimedia offer of the visitor centre is to be extended. It is also very important to see the day of action, where Parliament's day-to-day work is to be carried out. We have already been able to gain experience in this area. Together with President Prammer, I have already been allowed to organise several such events, at that time under the title 'Rein into the Parliament', which I am pleased to have been involved by Members of all the political groups. In this area, there are some Members who have been gratefully involved. I also hope to have a similar active participation in future events. Finally, despite all worldly differences, we share the common interest that people have a positive relationship to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10603	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10625	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, to Mr Vice-Chancellor, who accused us of harming the economy and the country by resisting the unlimited opening of the labour market: That's not the case at all! Rather, we believe that the process that has been used must be avoided. Mr. Minister of Economic Affairs, if you take the press today – apart from the fact that there is, of course, a strong contradiction between the body that should know this, namely the labour market service, and the trade union, that there is a need for skilled workers – you can also read that international migration has set in motion. Name: We want skilled workers from the new accession countries! They miss these and try to get skilled workers from Asia; Indians are talking about them. And the whole thing then runs under the title “Worker Movement”. I almost thought that was a Freud’s story. In the term "worker movement", until recently we have always reached the 1st place. May be thought. But that's the workers' movement now. And that could only be absurd, so to speak, but it is not absurd, because everyone who comes from a higher developed country is pressing the wages of the workers where he goes. And that is also the meaning and purpose of the matter. But we do not want this controlled and politically desired wage dumping, and on the other hand we keep our trust. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I am referring in particular to the women's policy aspects of the budget and, of course, there is a need to look at it under the heading 'Gender'. What are the gender aspects of the budget? What's that at all? “Gender mainstreaming” is a principle – I will try to figure out what it really is – which the European Union has given itself and which the Federal Government has committed itself to. And what is that now? – I asked a little bit about very clever, also politically interested, also politically active people, for example with the mayor of my home community, of the ÖVP. I asked him: Do you know what that is? Is the municipal budget also countered? That's where he looked at me completely unscrupulously. For example, he doesn't know. This budget is, in the opinion of those who drive it forward, far too little, but somehow opposed. For example, there is an approach in the Ministry of Life, which says that there is a project called “Inspecting the Gender Effects of Payments to the National Parks”. Somehow this is complicated, but it seems to be turning around that sexism also seems to stop at the borders of national parks. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I am now developing with you what it is. I am of course already very excited about what Mr Pröll will then present to us as a result of this project. I think it might go in this direction. – “Gender mainstreaming” has, of course, long been cross-border, especially from the EU, originally from America. – The Ministry of the Environment Nordrhein-Westfalen has also commissioned a study and has already received a final report. And you can read about this in the “Mirror” – I quote –: "After 11 months of work, the research team submitted a 67-page final report. It recommended, for example, to remove images of the deer Brunft as far as possible from advertising brochures, for such a kind of ‘stereotype gender roles’. So maybe it's what it's all about. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What does this have to do with gender?]] They did that in North Rhine-Westphalia. Maybe it'll be different. I am going to pursue with interest what our Ministry of the Environment is doing from this point of view. But with that I leave this still cheerful and actually get to the more serious. What Is Gender? The term is old, ancient, an ancient hat. That goes far back. Simone de Beauvoir already said in 1948: “You are not born as a woman, you become first!” So that means simply and simply... [[Abg. May. Worm: You'll be made to do that!]] - You're being turned into a woman! Yeah, you're a scholarly student of Beauvoir's wife. I'm not at all, I'm totally contrary. I can say that at the beginning. So it's obvious: Here one assumes from the idea that gender is a learning program. That would be so to speak... [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have to distinguish gender and gender!]] I know all of this, I know, but "Gender" is the very idea that gender is a learning program. By the way, of course, the idea that, if it is a learning program, one can of course reprogram. One can now believe that it is a private history and an important aspect of feminism, i.e. a political direction, which is limited only to a few, but that is not the case now, because it is new that “Gender Mainstreaming” has entered politics. The whole budget is against. The budget created under the leadership of the ÖVP is naturally opposed. So “Gender Mainstreaming” has entered politics and has caused profound effects there. Again: If I actually have the opinion – that is not everybody – the sex is in no way biologically fixed, but only product of education, then of course I am very close to the political conclusion: Then we'll move! And that's exactly the point where it's not too funny anymore. Then: In the core, “Gender Mainstreaming” does not want to change the human situation, but rather the human being itself. And there it actually stops for us pretty slowly! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you that the actual entry into government work that has been found in the work of the Ministries. I have a brochure published by “Zentrum Polis” here, which is what this association calls. This is an initiative of the Federal Ministry of Education and Art, and it turns to schools. Here it is – I quote –: “Dear teachers! This brochure presents concrete, easy-to-use examples of school projects and teaching units on gender equality.” – With us in schools, it is an official matter. I quote: “With this composition, which prepares the topic of gender equality from different perspectives..., the centre of policy – policy learning in school makes a contribution to the conscious perception of gender roles in school.” And then you come to the concrete things. So, what are teachers supposed to do? – Bubenwerk, for example. I would also like to quote this to the fullest extent. Everyone who has sons in school should also consider whether this influence of the state is really right for them. Bubies “seems to be involved in the context of socially effective relations of power and rule between the sexes. Bubs are actors and victims of sexual relations and should develop a consciousness that is not based on oppression of others. The boys are seen as privileged perpetrators who grow up in a patriarchal society and threaten girls. In this approach, boys are confronted with this role, and they are given privileges and spaces that they occupy and made available to girls. This will ensure that the boys are to think into girl realities and thus become ‘new men’.” – So far to be raised in our schools. I am absolutely convinced that there are disadvantages of women, especially where they are mothers. But it is a difference whether one is trying to compensate for these disadvantages, or whether the state is entitled to develop new role images, to transfer them to young people, all on a theoretically very, very dubious basis! In your sister parties – so I referred to the Federal Republic – there is already a bit of displeasure. [[towards ÖVP]] The Club-Vize Bosbach recently said with regard to gender mainstreaming, he is not so sure whether the CDU is the right focus there. I note – and I welcome you – that these self-disquieting questions do not always exist here. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: I'm doing exercises!]] It would be good, however, to recognize that. If you have this passage about buben education in your ear, do you hear the Marxist tongue blow in this sociologist baton?! - But you already hear that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I wonder why you are now – although almost everything is already over, although it turns out that on the basis of the Frankfurt School you cannot survive as a society, although it has become clear that we need to overcome this with new perspectives and ideas – there are still some. [[Abg. May. Muttonen:... go to school!]] We don't want this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: And we don't want you!]] Yesterday, at the family budget, so much was the talk of house mind and reason. This is not marked by house mind and reason: What appears here as gender budgeting is clearly the victory of ideology over reason! And we think you should go back to the house mind and reason. There would be a lot to do, especially in women's policy, especially where women are disadvantaged because of their motherhood. The first point: Many young people – all studies prove that – want a partner with whom they can live, and children. Then I have to make sure that they are not forced to choose either to participate in wealth or children! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] I ask you why you do not at last agree to facilitate the situation of families on tax law. Of course, family division is far and wide nothing to see and no talk. But you don't even take the deposits! In the meantime, the amount of redundancies has remained the same for seven years; in the meantime, the standard requirement rate at which they are measured has increased by 16 percent. They risk again if a committed father or mother finds themselves in a suit, a conviction before the VfGH for unconstitutional illegality. Why don't you do anything? – This would be a stimulating idea for the life prospects of women who also want to rise in the profession. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Why do it? You're nothing for re-entry? – It must be possible in a modern, flexible society to switch the phases together. Women have a life expectancy of more than 80 years, since it must be within that one prefers to devote five or ten years to the family. Why don't you do anything? – Nothing of it is inside! Why do it? You don't care for women's pensions? – Especially women who secure the pensions of the next generation do not have insurance at age. I have the impression, Mrs Frauenminister, that it is enough for you if 50 percent of men also suffer this disadvantage by not having a pension. – We want those who raise children to be insured at age too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Summary: A budget that doesn't really benefit women! Member of the European Parliament Auer complained that we were so harshly criticizing. But there's not much to praise! You have to praise it yourself; By the way, you can do it well. We have good reasons not to do it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10807	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10828	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mrs Rosenkranz, I believe that the historical truth must also be done enough. I'll go into that later. You have obviously forgotten what happened in the last legislative period with your group, with your consent in the field of pension reform. [[Abg. BZÖ? The BZÖ you mean now?]] Yes. Thank God! [[Abg. Strache: The worm progress of the ÖVP!]] But the committee president in the Health Committee was Mrs Rosenkranz, who was still a member of or at least a member of the BZÖ. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But only in the first step! Mrs Colleague, only on the first step!]] But I don't want to waste my time now. A short lecture on Gender and Gender Mainstreaming: This is a directive of the European Union from 1995, which was not implemented for the first time by the SPÖ – it was five years old – and not by the ÖVP, but – Madame Rosenkranz, please be careful! – it was implemented for the first time by Mr Bundesminister Head, then as Minister of Women or as Minister for Equal Opportunities of the Republic. He has used gender mainstreaming, and I believe that gender mainstreaming is a reasonable tool to show discrimination. – But I also do not want to do this for my 6 minutes now; we could discuss it for a long time. On the one hand, I would like to congratulate Mrs Bures on increasing the budget of women and to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Wilhelm Molterer for this, because there are always two of them: one who demands it and one who exists. This budget is actually one that gives women more money, and so we are in gender budgeting. Gender budgeting means nothing but to see how money expenditure affects men and women in that country. Now I assume that the extra money you have received, Mrs Minister – They have already said it in the Committee, especially in the prevention of violence, in the intervention agencies against violence. There we have an increase in the necessary tasks, probably not because there is more violence, but because this institution – thank God, I say – becomes more known and women also benefit from help. I also hope that you will support the women's emergency telephones that we have introduced in the last legislative period in Lower Austria and Vorarlberg, as well as, of course, the effects of the anti-stalking law, which we have agreed here in the last legislative period. I also hope that you will not forget the migrants who are particularly affected here, not only by violence, but also by discrimination of various kinds, especially as regards language, access to the labour market, but also the forms of traditional violence. However, women’s policy is not only a policy done in the Ministry of Women – or now in the Federal Chancellery, because there is no one’s own ministry of women – but also something that is to be done in all ministries and, of course, to eliminate inequalities or injustices. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf]] I believe that the greatest injustice is the income scarcity that still separates. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Dr. Graf and Deputies of the ÖVP.]] Mr President. Maybe you could see that the gentlemen listen to something. You wouldn't be hurt, Mr. Graf. [[Demonstrative applause with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Maybe you listen and don't scream around. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm listening!]] [[Further calls.]] It's mainly about closing the income shears. Here God is grateful to God between 1999 and 2004, even after the European Union's calculations, the income shears fell from 21 percent to 18 percent. Unfortunately, however, we are still above the EU section, and there is much to do. There has already been an additional teaching in the 2005 employment package: 100 million € specifically for women's qualifications. The 100 million € can also be found in this budget. It is important, however, that we also manage to ensure the compatibility of family and work and to combat poverty in old age. In the last legislative period, the Federal Government has made the largest anti-poverty programme for the Second Republic, with the childcare allowance for all and with the protection of women's old age through an account of €1 350 per month for 48 months for each woman who has brought up and also raised a child. This was the largest poverty reduction programme in the Second Republic, which was made available to women in particular. In addition, as part of the tax reform, Mrs Rosenkranz, we have already significantly increased the amount of the single earnings reduction. You missed that too. So there's a lot of things going on here. There will still be a lot to be done in the future until we have actually achieved equality. Tomorrow's Girls' Day is such an area that I believe we should use to bring women in women's untypical professions, in technical, better paid professions, but also to bring boys into women's typical professions. For example, in kindergartens and in public schools we also need men to find boys identification figures. We need men in care: in health care, in the hospital area, but also in old care. Here we should work together to ensure that role stereotypes can be dismantled in the future or even in the present, and together we should work together for a better world for men and women.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10944	Mrs Rosenkranz has reported on an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure: to present only the facts to be corrected, then to the right facts, and that in 2 minutes. - You're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e10969	Mrs Rauch-Kallat said I was there at the time and a member of the BZÖ. - That's not right! I was never a member of the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11011	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11033	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government! High house! I am a member of the BZÖ, I also remain a member of the BZÖ and in this direction I will also comment on the women's budget here in Parliament for this. [[Abg. May. Worm: And stay it!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I am not going to have my precious speaking time with theoretical discussions of the Gender mainstreaming wasted because I think Gender mainstreaming is not an invention of this government, but, as my previous speaker Maria Rauch-Kallat said, it has been a matter of course for years, even in the previous women's and family policies. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Fairness for women is and was a principle of BZÖ. We have also implemented concrete and sustainable improvements in the last few years to combat poverty and to safeguard old age. In addition to the childcare allowance, we have also introduced that only seven years of basic out-of-home working time are necessary and that the remaining periods can be reckoned for 15 years by child rearing and care. Some times we have increased the minimum pensions out of the way, most recently in 2006 for the year 2007 – very, very many women are affected – and, as you have already heard, a tax relief is also carried out, especially for the single parents – and here it is especially the mothers. Now there is a women's budget, which at first glance is pleased that it is a higher one; it has been raised from 6 million to about 8 million. But it is a budget which, if you look more closely at it, has only been raised for the least part for further funding. One positive aspect is that for the prevention, for the prevention of violence, about 60 percent of the funding budget is used for intervention agencies. But what's a little worrying about me: What about all other dedicated girls' and women's advisory services, which will also need financial security in the future, which also needs reliability? – Mrs Federal Minister, you know that there are also some unexplained problems here as to whether funding can be used as a reserve for disposals. I think there would also be an acute need for action. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have rightly found that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter, and you have also correctly recognized that your specific scope for implementation – in addition to promoting institutions, in addition to women's policies in the public sector – is a relatively small one and that you must, above all, limit yourself to "interfering everywhere", as you have said. I would like to draw your attention to a few issues on which you have said that you will be particularly involved, and that is what we expect. For example, you, Mrs. Federal Minister, want to start an offensive at childcare places. That sounds very good, I'm just saying, Without financial means, without federal funds, there will not go much further here. Because you know as well as I do that child care falls into country competence. If I look at only my own federal state or many other federal states, I see that in recent years God has been very, very much done in the establishment and extension of childcare. That is why I think you can, of course, raise awareness – that is quite clear – but if you do not have and do not use the kindergarten billions your group has been calling for over the past few years, then, I think, you will not go much further. I am therefore very glad that at least €700 000 for innovative childcare, which was introduced under a BZÖ minister, will continue in the family budget in the future. Mrs. Minister, if you interfere, I would also ask you to pay particular attention to the fact that there are blatant shortcomings in the care of children with severe disabilities. Here we have too little day care, especially when the mothers are employed, and we do not have the necessary opening hours. If you interfere, Mrs. Federal Minister, I would also ask you: Be committed to ensuring that the kindergarten year before entering school becomes a contribution-free one, because this in turn relieves the families, here in particular the women. It is also possible to better integrate and equal opportunities in the first year of school and in the next years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you interfere, Mrs. Federal Minister, I also ask: Immerse yourself and ensure that the amount of child care allowance is lifted. You have already set signals in this direction. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are still many opportunities to interfere. I think the closing of income shears is a great challenge and a great task. If it is now discussed and you say that the minimum wage of €1,000 gross this year or next year is to be implemented, I can only welcome it. I just think that this demand has been in place for a long time, and in the meantime there has been inflation. That's why I'm saying: Now you should not demand a minimum wage of € 1,000 gross, but a minimum wage of at least €1 300 gross. Otherwise, the difference between the so-called minimum guarantee and the income of those in employment is too low. Here, I think you should get even more involved. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, something that might be very up-to-date: I took the media from the fact that today the Council of Ministers presented the new housekeeping law within the framework of the 24-hour model. It is stated here that the periods of care are now fully taken into account from the level of care and that the Federal Government also carries the service contributions – not only the service providers, but also the staff contributions. Thank you, Mrs Federal Minister, for your support here too! Immigrate with your colleague Sozialminister Buchinger that this care and care is not considered as a real retirement period only from stage 5, because most of those who are taken care of at home are classified in the area from stage 3, and those who care for and care for at home are primarily women. Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to do to further develop things in the field of equality in daily life. Mrs Bundesminister, if we can support you, we are happy to do so, especially if it is done without ideological scams and without a party-political hack. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11099	Mrs Bures has spoken from the government bank. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11121	Mr President. High house! I am pleased – some speakers have already referred to it – that if the Austrian National Council decides on the budget, you will also decide on a significantly higher female budget. An increase of 35 percent is an increase in the female budget, which has never been achieved at this level. I can assure you that I will also make good investments in this money, where women need it. I will make good use of the funds by immediately increasing support for women's and girls' counsellors in order to give them the opportunity to continue to carry out this very important work in the women's service stations as high-quality as possible. I have planned a 13 per cent increase for the women's advisory services. You have also pointed out that, as far as the budget is concerned, I have put a political emphasis on the fact that most of the additional amount in the women's budget should be spent mainly on the intervention agencies against violence in the family. There is a 60 per cent increase, and this doubles once again because I will take this measure together with the Minister of the Interior and we can therefore further promote the intervention agencies against violence in the family. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Deputies Dr. Stummvoll and Neugebauer.]] In this area too, we actually have a sharp increase in the number of cases. This has to do with the fact that we have exemplary anti-violence laws and legislative regulations throughout Europe and that more and more victims of violence – and more and more are women and children within the family who are threatened by violence – are seeing the opportunity, thanks to the aid agencies and the intervention agencies and violence centres, to get support when it comes to protecting themselves from violent perpetrators and to ensure that the spiral of violence comes to an end. With the women's budget, I will ensure that these aid facilities will again be comprehensive and high-quality throughout Austria. Cases have doubled over the last five years. In Vienna it was even so that the cases rose by 164 percent. With this increase in the budget, I would now like to offer assistance to all victims of violence, as has been said, throughout Austria. With this investment boost, I would like to make it clear that this federal government has taken up the fight against violence in the family, that it sees violence in the family not as a private matter, but as a violation of human rights and that victims of violence have the right to protection and assistance from the state. That's the signal we're setting today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think that this is a good investment, on the one hand, as I said, in providing assistance in concrete terms, but also in measures to prevent violence. This is also an investment in a society that is worth living together peacefully. Many speakers have said that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. I've always understood this. I've already talked about interfering in all the departments at my address here in the House. I know that this is not always a source of great joy – even on the government bank and my colleagues – but I understand women’s policy as a cross-sectional matter, and it is therefore very important that we take into account the particular situation of life and the particular problems of women in all sectors. This also includes gender mainstreaming, which is about, Mrs Rosenkranz, that we are carrying out a review of legislative plans. It is not about sexlessness, but it is very much about the fact that, when laws are passed, one looks at exactly how they affect men and women, and there are many legislative projects that have different effects on the sexes because of the different situations of life between women and men. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: She knows that anyway!]] It's similar with the gender budgeting. It's not about sex, it's about looking at it: Is there a fair distribution of budget resources as well? And I think this should be put out of dispute that it is important that women's particular situation takes into account that there must be gender mainstreaming, gender budgeting. This requires a guide so that it will not be misunderstandingd, and I will therefore also issue a guide on gender mainstreaming, and I will issue a guide for gender budgeting, both with a theoretical part and a checklist for budgetists, for legislators, so that we will ensure that women's interests are actually taken into account. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think the most important thing from the point of view of women is the measures which are also the focus of this new federal government. These are the measures to combat poverty. We have had a dramatic development in the past, increasing the number of people at risk of poverty to over one million. I think it is a shame in such a rich country as Austria that so many people are at risk of poverty. It must therefore be our political priority to take action to combat poverty. The introduction of the minimum pension was a first measure that enabled us to raise the income of 115 000 women over the poverty threshold. I would also like to thank the social partners who are on the right track and, as I know, have very constructive discussions on the introduction of a minimum wage. That's something that's been on time for a long time. Ten years ago, I had already supported the fact that there is this minimum wage. Of course, it is women who work in specific sectors. More than 43 sectors still have a collective agreement in full-time employment, according to which they do not earn € 1,000. So I expect a boost for more justice in women's incomes. The second major focus of the new Federal Government is not to see how unemployment develops but to actively combat unemployment. By the way, this is also the best way to prevent poverty at all, that man and woman have an employment from which they can live. I am very glad that we have succeeded in making a clear commitment in the Government Convention not only to increase the female employment rate but also to ensure that there is more full-time employment for women. It should no longer be necessary for women to accept several part-time employment conditions so that they can even have an income from which to live. It is our central goal to give women work and create jobs through which they will then have an income from which they can live. We know all the necessary framework conditions very well. The Wifo White Paper describes what increases women's chances in the labour market, and to this end all measures leading to better compatibility between work and family are a very important and essential contribution. I think there is no doubt today that there have also been many misdevelopments in the case of children's money, and we have therefore also disputed the need for a reform. The reform of child care will be one that will help men to participate in childcare and set an impulse for it, and that it will also be in the interest of women to ensure that, if they want to return to the profession more quickly, they do not lose child benefits as in the past, but that they have a higher relationship in a shorter period of reference. We agreed. I would also like to focus on this flexibilisation and necessary reform of child benefit, because I believe that this is one of the basic prerequisites in order to be able to better reconcile work and family life. The second area is the childcare facilities. At the childcare facilities, I always think the discussions are exciting. They always start with the argument: Who pays them? There is a clear commitment to the development of childcare facilities in the Government Convention, which, moreover, has also been signed by many heads of state by the government. On the question of payment, we should take a national economic account, as we would otherwise do in the case of investment. If the University of Economics has already predicted that for every euro you invest in child care you actually return between €1.3 and € 2 for the national economy, then it is calculated. It is also expected to expand childcare facilities, because a loving, family-friendly community is not only the circular and the canal, but also the children's playground and childcare. And I'm going to interfere, too. I am grateful for the support I have received in recent days, the support within the Federal Government, through which I have gained the feeling that women are concerns of the entire federal government. Here again, in today's debate, I have come to the impression that we have a great opportunity to take a lead in women's policy. What we need to do is to create the conditions for women as politicians, so that they can live as they want, and that is, of course, a self-determined and independent life. This budget stands for it, and I am going to put my women's policy on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11193	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11217	Ladies and gentlemen! This budget chapter covers six areas. I would like to express my views on two areas in the near future: Parliament and the Court of Auditors. First of all, very briefly to the Court of Auditors. Mr President, Mr Moser said in the negotiations that the Court of Auditors are very economical. – One can only agree with this, especially in view of the fact that in the previous year not everything was exhausted, which was estimated, although the work effort is increasing, the pressure is increasing. Therefore the recognition of us and the warm thanks also to the staff of the Court of Auditors. [[General condolences.]] You have recently said that you want to expand the examination competence. This is where the housing companies were called. However, I would like to be very reluctant to say that if we are in favour of an examination of cooperatives, which is then not subject to § 30 of the House of Common Use Act, but generally to the cooperative revision law, to which all those who have organized themselves as cooperatives should be subject. However, this would also require a constitutional change. For the second chapter, see Parliament: Here our President Prammer said in the discussions that budgeting for the next two years is very narrow, that there will be increases of € 122 million for 2007 and € 116.9 million for 2008. There are, in particular, human bottlenecks in the Parliamentary Directorate, which are also due to the two committees of inquiry which are currently taking place. For the current year, € 250 000 will be allocated to these committees of inquiry. This may appear to be very much at first glance, and this is also sometimes criticized, but I think that must be the control of Parliament's execution, which must be worth our democracy. And as has been shown, the establishment of both committees has proved to be justified, because there are constantly new facts which they support. We should not, as I believe, be satisfied with the current regulation, but we should have our objective of extending the control powers of the National Council, which means that a minority can also use investigation committees. There is therefore a need for improvement, because it is not supposed to be in the power of the majority to decide whether a committee of inquiry is taking place or not. In Vienna, for example, this has long been handled in such a way that the establishment of an investigative committee is the right of the parliamentary minority in the municipal council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11260	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11281	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Lady Minister of Women! Mrs. State Secretary! I have been in Parliament for many years, but I have never been lucky that, when I talk about the budget, the Federal Chancellor was present, because he always goes after some time. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: He fears you!]] So now I must ask the Minister of Women to forward to him what he is about and not directly to her, because I am, and this is not unexpected, of course, to say something about the group budget, especially since I was unable to take part in the discussions in the Budget Committee because of a funeral. I then read in Parliament's correspondence, which the Federal Chancellor answered to questions put by various Members, not just the Greens. And what he answered or said about it is at least very necessary to explain, not to say that it was completely wrong. It is already a very selective perception, which the Federal Chancellor has shown here in relation to the budget for ethnic groups. As the very first, however, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate very much, for a very specific reason. [[General condolences.]] Never, I think, has it ever happened in history that at the same time there have been two committees of inquiry and that the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate have been called for in this way as in recent months. Although we have held back from the normal committees, this has not had anything to do with Parliament, but rather with the fact that the government has taken so long until it has somehow come into operation, and that, therefore, Parliament has not really had anything to do with it, except for budgetary deliberations. Nevertheless, it is great – now, of course, the Parliamentary stenographers come first, because one is sitting right in front of me, but the very special one – what is done here by everyone. For this, on behalf of the Green Group – and as I have already noted in the applause earlier, also from all others – I would like to thank you very much and thank you very much. [[General condolences.]] Thank you, however, not only to the staff of the Parliamentary Directorate, but also to all the ladies and gentlemen who are the employees of those who are sitting here now, the Court of Auditors, the People's Procuratorate and – now she represents Mrs Bures – the Supreme Institutions in the wider sense. If, for example, I am thinking of the Administrative Court of Justice, what they have to do with this burden of procedures they have to carry out, but also the Constitutional Court and, of course, the ministries, the Federal Chancellery itself, respectably. So that it's all about things very quickly: I had the honour – it was not only an honor, but sometimes a great pleasure and an intellectual challenge – to be a member of the Constitutional Convention, as well as the President of the Court of Auditors. The Austrian Convention, the members who have worked there, especially those who have great know-how of experts, which also relates to the politicians, but especially to those who are not politicians, have produced incredible quantities of material – you all know that anyway, those are thousands of pages. And politics has managed to draw from these thousands of pages very small conclusions. I hope that we will soon be confronted with what is now being discussed – now I have also looked at Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Kostelka, but not in his capacity as a popular lawyer, but as a member of those men who are now dealing with the results – with what this men's round to Succus from what has been designed in 19 months by more than 70 people and all these experts will present to the National Council here, because now everything is quite simple: [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Ha, “Man Round”!]] The government has 75 percent of the votes in the National Council. What the opposition says, does, does, or proposes is actually relatively irrelevant, for the two-thirds majority is as full as it has been for a long time. One example I would like to cite – probably all of you, but especially we Greens, because we have already publicly announced this, constantly e-mails and suggestions from the Austrian population – namely the question of the extension of the legislative period where, as if everything had already been eaten, everything has already been fixed: There's no more talk about it. The fact that this planned extension of the legislative period represents an blatant circumcision of democratic co-decisions is really not a meat for the people, in order to say it a bit popular now. And this is not at all compensated for by the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years, which we have called for for for for a year and a half. Each one of you can expect, so you'll figure it out once: Even if you can choose between 16 and 18 years of age, this means, in the average life expectancy that the people in Austria have, that you are less often taking part in political decisions than you have so far. And what does this mean, if you say that citizens, citizens, residents, residents should be politically involved, should politics be interested in if policy offers fewer and less opportunities? I strongly reject this extension of the legislative period, like the Green Group as a whole, and I would point out that there are countries that have even been complacent, there are six-year-old legislative periods. In other countries, for example in Carinthia, there are suffrages, so that, on the basis of a simple and simply unjust electoral right, smaller parties do not even have the chance to represent those voters who give them the vote in elections. As a small point, Mr Kostelka is now on the way to the men's deliberations in this committee from the Green Group. Second point: Conversion of the plenary room. I say something to you, ladies and gentlemen, especially those who are critical of the plans here: I enjoy every time a camera is turned on, and I'm swirling through the hall. I therefore enjoy the fact that my colleague Theresia Haidlmayr and my colleague Franz-Joseph Huainigg are being discriminated against here by all of us, including me. Did you follow that yesterday when the speech was by Theresia Haidlmayr in the evening? – Theresia Haidlmayr spoke in the course of a first reading, because only she can speak as a bringer. Because of this discriminating situation, it did not have the opportunity for people with special needs to pursue this debate in this Chamber. She – and Franz-Joseph Huainigg – has no chance to hear the previous speaker speaking before her, she has no chance to hear the after-speaker who might talk about what she said before, because she is always on the way from the back in a foolishly complicated way. It's unpleasant for me. I am not pleased that as a politician I am constantly calling for non-discrimination, while we are discriminating our own colleagues – and that with the money argument. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Please comply with the laws you decide here! Accessibility! Do you know how unpleasant it is when a wheelchair driver wants to listen from the gallery? He can't do it there. He has to sign up days before to have the opportunity to use a citizen's right to live, namely to participate in a parliamentary debate. It is written to all those in the main book who oppose the conversion of the plenary room and Parliament as a whole towards accessibility – to create 100 percent accessibility in a historic building, that is a long way anyway – which defends itself here and simply boycotts and rejects the arguments of this project by our President Prammer – that I look especially at the President behind me, Mr Spindelegger. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] – Do not shout out of the third row, without ever having done anything about it, Mr Amon! [[Abg. Amon: This is my place once!]] Above all, I address the Minister of Finance and Vice-Cancellor: It does not even provide for an overrun permit for this conversion. I am indignant about the way my colleague Haidlmayr and colleague Huainigg and perhaps later others are being discriminated against here. The last point – because now my speaking time is already around – is to promote groups. Very briefly. For years, only € 3 million of support has been provided for groups. The sum has already been in Schilling. This sum has been frozen since 2000, it has never changed. Please, under black and blue or black-blue orange, I have not really expected it, honestly, because I do not want to roll up what has happened to popular groups initiatives and minority policies. Now there is a new government, now those who have previously criticized it, the social democratic part, in this government. And what happens? It's all right with the old man. The exact same amount of €3,768 million is foreseen in this double budget for the next few years. Is that not embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group? Six recognised groups in Austria, and the promotion is at a level experienced by the non-adjustment of recent years, a real reduction of 11.74 percent. That is, there is 11.74 percent less money for groups of organisations, who also have employees who can no longer work now. How can I pay someone if I have less money? These employees have a right to wage increases due to the positive effects of the National Council and the trade unions, but groups of organisations cannot pay them out. I may have another opportunity to speak in the context of the debate, but please remember the number: 11.74 percent real reduction in a budget area, on a subject that the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor, the former Chancellor and many of you constantly lead in the mouth. Our minorities, our groups are worth a lot to you. As the Federal Chancellor of the Committee has said, we want to have a discharge from the national polarization. But by deleting the money, you certainly don't get it. And everything else is not meant seriously, because there are still no local boards in Carinthia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11399	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11420	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I am pleased to come to the chapter on sport after the important budget chapter of women, because sport is It is really a very encouraging chapter, and I am happy every year when I stand out here and talk about sports. I can say that the sport has gotten more money again, and I think that's a very important factor. It is very important that sport is given financial resources, especially it is important that these funds are also used properly. This is more than €100 million today. I am pleased that this Federal Government continues its commitment to the previous federal government that sport is one of the most important side-by-points in the world, and therefore also sends a clear signal to the importance of sports. I think setting a clear signal means that the successful path of recent years can be continued. Finally, this shows itself in the successes of the past. Our honorary boards from the last few years can really be seen, and we have again been very successful in the new year this year: our ski jumpers in Japan, Claudia Heil and Sabrina Filzmoser at the Judo European Championship in Belgrade and Markus Rogan at the World Swimming Championship in Australia. Of course, I am also particularly pleased that last Sunday in Padua our Thomas Geierspichler left all behind for the disabled athletes with a convincing victory here in the first big race – and this right at the start of the season. We can be very proud and congratulate very cordially. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the members of the SPÖ and the Agg. Bucher.]] This brings me to a very important point in the promotion of sport, namely the sport of the disabled. Disability sport has finally received the equipment it needs by increasing the financial resources. It has 3.3 million € at its disposal this year, and these funds flow directly into the pots of disabled sport. Of course, the services are provided by the athletes, but through this financial basis they are supported in their extensive training work and preparation. The second point: Top-level sport promotion. It is particularly gratifying that it will be increased by more than € 2 million over the next two years. The year started well – I already mentioned it – and everyone is working towards a big goal: the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing. The list of beneficiaries reads like the “Who is Who?” of Austrian sport. The fact that it is now also in this area with the cooperation and effectiveness of the promotions is particularly pleasing. The third area to which I would like to dedicate myself is health and long-term sports, where especially with the introduction of project funds for preschool children and folk school children in all the umbrella organisations is intensively worked to gain more movement and awareness of movement in schools. It is especially important to inspire the children for sports here. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I can only report here from the Sports Union that for the past two months more than 40 000 children in 1 700 classes in all the federal states of Austria have been participating in a popular children’s project called “UGOTCHI” and have received a feeling for movement and for health. It is very important, therefore, that we invest here, because the terrifying figures on the lack of movement and on disability in children remind us every day. So the covenant is in place here, and that is, as has already been said, a real sign. But let us not overlook that the sports landscape is becoming increasingly diverse and that it is important to face the challenges here in the future. With the special We are fit for the future for federal sport promotion, because thus new umbrella associations and professional associations can also be integrated into the Federal Sports Organisation. Especially encouraging is the topic of sports major events – since the profound expert Hannes Zweytick will then speak to the football euro –, I only want to assume here that it is also very important that we promote smaller sporting events, namely smaller events such as the Rhönrad World Championship in Salzburg or the sailing flight World Championship in Niederöblarn. [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] This is an essential sign also with regard to our functionaries, because without the use of our functionaries these smaller events would not be possible. I would like to thank the organizers of the Rhönrad World Championship and the Sailing Arts World Championships for their commitment to all the officials of the sports associations in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Austria is not only a successful sports country, but also an innovative sports promotion country through its financial equipment. In this sense: Live the sport! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11522	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. He's done six minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11544	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Greetings to God, High House! [[Abg. Faul: Greetings to God! Say hello! Servus!]] I am pleased to be able to comment on the budget once again. Member of the European Parliament Auer said he was here 24 years in the high house and persecuted the budgets during that time. – I was only briefly appointed budget speaker of the Freedom Party and only here in October of last year, but I was active in the economy for just as long as Mr Auer was here in the budget area. As managing director, I was responsible for a medium-sized company and also had to do with a lot of figures there, including many budget documents. I am absolutely amazed how to take almost 190 billion debts in the Austrian state, as if nothing were. I am very surprised that our leaders of the state, the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance, are taking this mountain with such serenity. With these 190 billion debts, we have the highest budget deficit ever in the Second Republic, and there are two parties primarily responsible for these debts. If today Mr Dr. stupidly said that the government budget is a large ship which is very difficult to control, then it must be said that the ÖVP has always been at the level of taxation, but it seems that there has always been a round course here, because every year since there was the Republic, debt has been piled on debt. Only once, in 1953, there was a positive budget, the other years was always a minus, which ultimately resulted in it being 190 billion debts today. A frightening number, and I can't imagine that you can ever reduce this amount again. Our clubman Strache has already carried out what this means for the individual taxpayer: 3 050 € each of us citizens pays back every year to these debts. This 9.3 billion interest rate service – please, it's in the budget, you can read it in the budget estimate – is not wrong, it's totally right, and it's 14 percent of government expenditure that makes up these interest rates. If you compare: We take in a total of €18 billion a year, half of which is the interest rate service we have to spend on our debts. That is, if we didn't have the debt, we would only have to pay 50 percent of our wage tax. - That's what I'm talking about. These 190 billion euros of debt are an equivalent of about 600 000 single-family homes – only to know the dimension of these debt chunks – and it is converted to mobility around 10 million VW golf. This value corresponds to an equivalent of 10 million VW golf, i.e. every Austrian could drive more than one VW free of charge, we would not have the debt. There has already been talk of the experts in hearing, where it has been said that there is no need for the direction-setting approaches that are forward-looking, there is little for the future, the urgent administrative reform has not been implemented, the family policy approaches are missing in the budget, and the energy policy approaches have not been made in any way for the future. With debt policy, we believe in the liberals, must finally end. But what happens? – The government has provided further debt in the new budget: for this year 4 billion and for next year 3 billion. I just don't understand, because the 2006 budget, in which revenue has developed very, very strongly and positively, could have made a zero budget in 2006, and the 2007 figures also indicate that if you don't get back to the total amount of money you're taking in addition, you could at least close it with zero. A few answers to what the Federal Chancellor has brought in and said today. To the 380 kV line: Yes, we are also in favour of building the 380 kV line, but just as it is reasonable for people, not at a distance of 50 meters to the houses. There are guests from the Inn quarter here today. I was there about three weeks ago and looked at it. The distance of this kV line is about 50 meters. That is inconceivable and dangerous to health! We've heard how well the Austrians are doing today. There will already be something true about it, but quite often, I believe, the Lord Chancellor is not outside the population, he does not know how people think. I have already said yesterday that Vienna is a special patch with regard to increases in the public sector. But not only in Vienna, but also in the other federal states and cities, the increase in the public sector is exorbitant. When you talk to families, they say that the money will always be too little. I also think it is because all those employed in the middle class are being ‘controlled away’, which they should receive in addition to an increase in the wallet each year via wage and salary increases. That is why we are from the liberals for this – which is a very, very important concern of us – that we are now making a tax reform and not only in 2010, since we do not know how the economy will develop until then. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Tax reform for SMEs, tax reform for small and medium-sized enterprises, which has already been financed by the State for a number of years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11592	The next item is the report by Mr Reheis. He's done three minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11614	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Dear colleague Grazauer, it is probably the essence of a budget discussion that one has many wishes out here that can only be sent to the Christian child, but at the same time criticizes the budget deficit. The fact is that every year since the Republic, the prosperity in this country has increased and the population has made a significant contribution to the development of the future of this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: You don't even believe that your own voters!]] If you also address loans and loans in this context, I have to say that it would probably not be possible for most people to buy a car, let alone build a family house. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] There, too, you need to save and be diligent, but there must also be the opportunity to get loans to build a house and thus increase prosperity. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Haimbachtner]] Thank God are such brakers as you are not in the government, but it is important that the SPÖ in this Federal Government finally goes up again. And you can feel that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: BAWAG! BAWAG!]] Finally, there is another government that is caring for the people who are caring for jobs, which are primarily committed to a good and sustainable health system, which is a pioneer in the education and training of children and which is very important to women's concerns and, above all, ensures that they are invested in these areas in the future. She takes care of the pensions and takes care of the families. And what is very important, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again a cause of political opposition. For that, the SPÖ is a guarantee! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to address something that my previous speakers have already mentioned, namely the general reorganisation of this plenary room, our workplace. Ladies and gentlemen! If you sit here for 12, 13, 14 or 15 hours, this is a consequence for the health of all who have to sit here, let alone for those who are dependent on a wheelchair due to their disability – whether these are the listeners or those who have their workplace here. There's a need for action. We must see that the fact that we do not have a budget room for the expansion and re-design of this House in the next two years is something that will be countered. For example, a first step would be to change the energy situation in this House. I am thinking of the possibility of equipping all the lighting bodies with energy-saving lamps. I can address the efforts made by some of the municipalities in this regard. The municipality of Wörgl in Tyrol achieves an annual electricity reduction of 3 million kilowatt hours with energy saving lamps with the same energy and light output. This would bring €450 000 more to the budget and save the environment 1 800 tons of CO2. What could happen in this house? That would be a step in the right direction to save energy, but the next and more important step is the expansion of this House. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11693	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11715	Madam President. Representatives of the Federal Government! Representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of our group on these important budget chapters, the Federal Chancellery, Women and Sport, and the Top Institutions, I am very grateful to the very competent President of the Court of Auditors and, above all, to all his staff for the constructive cooperation with us over the past few months. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr President, once again you have given proof that, even if you have reservations on individual mandates of this House, you still have 100 per cent of your work, I believe, if you make it serious, if you can make it honest when you make it competent, you can reap it. You have provided this proof, and we congratulate you very much on it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would also like to thank the people's lawyers, because we know from feedback from the people and, above all, many of our country's citizens, that they are very sensitive to their concerns, fears and desires and are doing their work very well and satisfyingly for the benefit of the citizens. However, before I come to the surprise of the Green Group, I should like to make a few general comments on the budget, as far as this is at all of interest, because it seems that a club meeting is under way at the ÖVP, and the gentlemen who have already given their views on the budget are unfortunately no longer here. [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't surprise us with anything more! I don't think the BZÖ is!]] [[pointing to the shaker-occupied series of the ÖVP]] But I would like to say a few things; we have already discussed a lot about the budget, but there are still other items on the agenda where we will do so. In my opinion, it is already a bold change of SPÖ, which is being carried out there: We have always heard in recent years that this is a wrong economic policy, a wrong budgetary and financial policy. We have had to be blamed here by this speaker's chair, which was only commonplace. They basically rejected everything. You have to be so honest. You have rejected everything: the tax reform rejected, the pension reform rejected, many economic, economic and growth packages rejected. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Did you also say “reduction reform”?]] – Have you done so, you have refused, Mrs. Colleague! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: We have rejected a reduction reform!]] Today we have heard, to my astonishment and to the amazement of many of the BZÖ and the ÖVP, that the Federal Chancellor is looking forward to being proud of having such a great economic growth in this Republic. I'd be careful if 100 days of guinea pigs were responsible for this. There I would be careful, because it is not very credible to sit down and say, just because we now have a red Chancellor, there is such a great upswing in our country. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Seven years of black and blue either!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This statement still has to be relativized, because last year we had a rise, a rise of 3.2 percent, this year it is 3%, and next year we are holding ourselves at this high level. Let us be proud that this is due to a government that has recognized the problems of time in good time, which has set the right course for the future, which was very constructive. If we criticise the budget today – not only today, but we have already criticized it the last days, the last time – we must also say that we – be quite honest! – in the coalition were such a bit of a restless spirit; I admit quite openly. But we were also the one who brought in a little bit of the powder, who pushed the whole lot a little bit, as you say so beautifully, who always pointed out that we were putting down the taxes in time, that we were reforming in time because we knew that the time was right. [[Abg. Owl: A shot at the back!]] [[Abg. Oils: They were the salt in the soup!]] Let's be open: We have had many debates about it, and we have had many discussions on it internally in the coalition, in the tax reform commission et cetera with the Minister of Finance, because we have always been the blackmailers, always – I don't want to say, the engine, because there are always two of those who sit at the tax – who have guided the Austrian economic ship in the right direction; we have already played a significant part in it. [[Abg. Oils: It's not good when two sit at the wheel!]] Of course, we are very pleased that it has succeeded in some way in rehabilitating this state budget, because it was not easy in 1999/2000 to take over a rather difficult budgetary heritage of empty state funds. [[Abg. Faul:... toss!]] Somebody's supposed to do this to us first! If today there is talk of a big throw and so on: be careful with this formulation, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, because we all know better what a big throw is. These two 2007/2008 budgets are not a big throw! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is basically a continuation of the last budgets with minimal changes: revenue on the one hand improved and rehabilitated. That is why we are not involved, because we do not want to allow tax and tax increases in this country, we do not want to scrap the citizens, but we are the discharge party. [[Abg. Oillinger: No one invited you either!]] We have proved this very well in recent years. We have reduced taxes in the last few years in two stages in the order of €3 billion. That's what you should do to us. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Thank God not!]] Not only does it promise to make a tax reduction sometime in 2010, of which no one knows today how to look at the whole thing. I just wanted to have said this once in a general way about what has been discussed today. There are indeed better demands and ideas in terms of content that we have deposited. I don't think that this budget is very important. It's a good budget, but that's all I want to say. For us this is absolutely too little. That is why, most likely also to be surprised by the Green Group, I should like to make two amendments tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner, Colleagues on the Government Template concerning the Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Proposal for 2007 and 2008 respectively, 39 d.b. and 40 d.b.. We want the support of the ethnic groups to be finally valorised since 1996 – I hope you will agree. I heard from Mr Stoisits that she criticized the fact that the ethnic groups have received too little money; we want to do this. Why don't we run press and party promotion with popular promotion? – That would be a good consideration we could think about. I have now tabled this amendment, it has also been distributed; I do not think I have to explain it in its basics. It is a good proposal to join this proposal too! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e11940	Debates of the European Parliament Westenthaler, Scheibner and colleagues – now again explained – have been properly introduced and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12223	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. She's been talking for five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12246	Madam President. Dear Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Rosemarie Bauerof the People's Procuratorate – currently lonely and alone! [[Abg. Neugebauer: But don't leave!]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council! The budget chapter of the Supreme Institutions also includes the People's Procuratorate – an institution that gives every man and woman, regardless of age, nationality and residence, which is affected by a maladministration in the administration, the opportunity to complain if legal remedies are no longer available. The People's Procuratorate is an important and indispensable administrative body that is highly regarded and well accepted in the population. It is also a good example of how to manage responsibly and carefully with budget resources: The public prosecutors budgeted € 4.8 million in 2006, but a total of € 5 million. A total of around 16 000 attachments were processed with these budget resources and 211 spokesmen throughout the federal territory. A complaint to the Public Prosecutor's Office is, of course, free of charge for any complainant and not subject to any cost burden, even a free service number is available to all. In order to ensure all these benefits fully for the future, the policy will provide the relevant budget resources, and the funds for the public prosecutor's office in the 2007 and 2008 budgets have been increased and estimated at € 5.1 million annually. If the public continues to use the services of the public prosecutor's office as before, our Minister of Finance, Vice-Cancellor Molterer, will certainly in its responsible manner require a re-budgetation. Like my previous speakers, I would also like to take advantage of this opportunity today to thank the attorneys Rosemarie Bauer, Peter Kostelka and Hilmar Kabas and, in particular, all employees in the People's Procuratorate for their unmistakable and constant commitment. This personal commitment of each and every individual is characterised by the success balance of the Austrian People's Procuratorate. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Oils.]] The interest and high acceptance of the public prosecutorship among the Austrians is also evident in the consistently good audience quotas of the “Volksanwalt – Same Law for All”. In 2006, 40 consignments had an average market share of 32.3 percent. So she was one of the most successful broadcasts on Saturday in ORF 2. On the subject of ORF, I would have to say something else at this point. Recently I stumbled in the ORF over a new series called “Weeds – Small Deals Among Neighbors”, which was bought by an American private station. It shows humorously how a young woman, a widow with two children, is dealing with the sale of drugs. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, you heard right: She's dealing with drugs! On the one hand, our responsible family minister, who is responsible for the protection of young people, creates enormous outrage and distributes condoms, on the other hand, one seems to have no problems in the ORF but with a dealing mother as a hero of a series. – Does the public-law education contract look like, or is the over-kneaded programme reform proof of “speed kills”? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You are so...! That's inconceivable!]] Self-productions such as the series “Middle in the 8th” do not seem to tear anyone off the stool in Austria and fall under the term "Fadesse". – Public-law television doesn't have to be fat, this always depends on the programme designers! A positive example is also the cultural area with the good productions, for example with Anna Netrebko, which leads to high deployment rates. Understandably, every channel – including a public-law channel – is trying to get to more audiences. But must that be at all costs? Does the viewer have to be torn back and forth between fade self-productions and foreign series with pedagogically questionable background? – As an ÖVP member, I expect an ORF general director with a public-law mandate to comply with this mission and to provide images of positive life management to our people, especially the Austrian youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12317	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12338	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and in the audience! It is difficult to get there, because this was now a short trip to the ORF and a program criticism at the ORF. This is certainly also an exciting subject, Mrs Riener, but I remain with what was to be the most important thing in the House in the world. A previous speaker has meant that we have the responsibility to be particularly economical. - Yes, I'll give him the right. One of the points that also play a role in the “Top Institutions” budget chapter is the money that is still spent in the context of the referee law on pensions for retirement and care, the old policy pensions. I can only say to you, ladies and gentlemen, if you address economy and therefore mean that the reconstruction of this meeting room should not take place if you only aim to do so and do not talk about the fact that we have a certain legislative problem in the old system of political/political pensions, then you are mistaken. I really do not think it is responsible for the fact that a debate on the system of payroll pensions which expired in 1997 can only be held in exceptional situations, if at all, here in this House. We are now in the tenth year after the abolition of the referee law or pension schemes, and the payee pensions continue to run forward – not as old sanctions, which naturally need to be paid, but for those who are now – still! - to withdraw from the law which was abolished in 1997. I would be glad if you had applied the same scale as you have applied to the referee law for which ASVG and reforms in the ASVG have been applied, but you have lacked courage and strength to do so: In the ASVG, in the GSVG, in the BSVG, the reforms had to be effective immediately and immediately, because you wanted to make millions for the budget – it is time for the political pensions. Now, however, I come to the one point that is already a bit of arousing to me in addition to the scarcity of political pensions, and that is what some previous speakers have said thanked God, which is being done here in the framework of the non-appointed funds for the reconstruction of Parliament. The cheap game that is being run for the reconstruction of the plenary room is easy to see! We had a situation where, of course, all the political groups in Parliament have contributed to the proposals – even because they were good – not by Mrs Prammer, but by Mr Khol. At the moment when, instead of Mr. Khol, President Prammer held the Presidency in the relevant building committee and also had the responsibility for the reconstruction, ÖVP said: We're not there anymore! Now it has to be economical! [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Sparksam? At €63 million?- Oh, my God!]] Beyond the question, ladies and gentlemen, the legitimate question of what all this costs... – This is not easy to organize, Mr. Sonnberger, you do not need to tell me. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: With eye measure!]] But all things have been guided in the way. Money has been spent on studies to organize this conversion or to help it jump. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Between 20 and 60 million is a difference! That's three times as much!]] And then a clubman bowl comes and says, I was a minister of buildings myself, I know about architecture anyway, so I think you can make it cheaper! - Well, that's probably a joke. That's a joke! That's not how things can be addressed! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] Now I only tell you one thing, we also have to agree... – Mr. Sonnberger, if you want to take responsibility and say, yes, we believe that this should not be justified, because we do not have to do so much for the disabled anyway, it should not be quite adequate for the audience and also possible for disabled people to sit on the audience without having to register 48 hours before... [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger:... handling tax funds!]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: It will be disabled!]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's not the point!]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: Of course, colleague!]] Of course – yes, but that will cost you something, Mr Sonnberger! I'm just telling you: These your inability and cheap tactics of mutual rescheduling and rescheduling of the responsibility to be responsible for nothing and not to organise the money for a naturally economical but also useful reconstruction of Parliament are characteristic of the state of the Republic. The Republic is now also manifesting itself in this hall. And the way you deal with it and move it cheaply from one year to the other, without you wanting to take responsibility for what is left out here is characteristic. This hall here is an exhibition for the Republic, and it should also be adequate for the audience sitting on top of the stands, so that everyone who wants to do so can follow the debates. [[Abg. Murauer: Much earlier we should have done something!]] – Yes, but much earlier, Mr Commissioner, there was another President, and I think he has begun to do so. So don't talk about the situation now! Now you're blocking! [[Abg. Morak: We do not block!]] Have a lot earlier They had the responsibility, and we were willing to support it. Now you put this into a rupture, which I believe is symptomatic not only for the condition of the coalition, but also for how you want to deal with tax money, but also with this house. [[Abg. Murauer: In your opinion!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12539	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. It's done for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12560	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! I would like to go straight ahead because Fritz Neugebauer looks at me and that is at the budget speeches Usus – and that is my personal concern, which is part of the budget debate – to thank the public officials very much. [[General condolences as well as bravors at the ÖVP.]] I can thank you very much for all our staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate. For us, ladies and gentlemen, it is often a matter of course whether it is 8 o'clock in the morning or midnight, everything works. I believe that from time to time we should also thank them in public. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to express my pleasure and thank the ladies and gentlemen of the People's Procuratorate very much. I am also pleased with the new committee, that we will be able to discuss this important area together in the future, so that we can bring in ideas on how to adapt it in future. In addition to thanking the Volksanwälte, I can also very much thank all the employees of the Volksanwaltschaft. In the foreseeable future, we will have the opportunity to debate the 2006 report jointly, not only to debate it here, but also to present it publicly. In budget debates it is so that one says that and that is too little, and the other say that this and that is far too much. That's always the way it is. I can tell you, Mr. Karl Oellinger. You don't need to worry about the coalition! I think this is a good, a fair, a social budget for the next two years. Let us wish this for the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12615	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. You took six minutes of speaking time, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12637	Madam President. Kiss your hand, Mrs. State Secretary! Gentlemen on the government bank! I have made the effort, after it has been mentioned so often, to examine the red manuscript in this budget a little. I have, honestly, been hard on myself, because I didn't really jump into the eye, except for the red numbers. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I must be fair to you: These red figures really don't have to answer you alone, because since 1986 the ÖVP has been in the government and has exactly that or even more, that is, seven years more than you, and can't stand out there and say: We ship around a big tanker with a lot of debt! – It won't play! The red manuscript is obviously written with secret ink in this budget. I've been really hard at that, but I've found a little thing, and that's really interesting. Yesterday, in the context of the budget accompanying laws, you have also increased the cost of the court, probably a bit in memory of your colleague, Gerharter, who has not paid € 580 000 to justice for seven years. There you can see, when it comes to picking up a bit of money from the pockets, the big coalition was still quite great. It's a great performance that finds its rainfall here. Unfortunately, Mr Krainer is not here now, because I wanted to tell him that he can take off the anorak that he put on yesterday. It's not so cold. The budget is bluffing with hot air. As a small example: He claimed yesterday that a 50 percent increase in parking fees in Vienna was nothing. That's what I'm asking myself: Why does he come out here and tell us that 10 percent increase in the flat rate and 15 percent increase in student support are such a great and great thing if 50 percent are nothing? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I understand, in principle, why the SPÖ is now doing a bit of hard to explain its position in the budget. This is also because the ÖVP is already the best way to overtake you on the left. There are discussions about the general school, which has now been carried out by the ÖVP. Then my colleague comes from Styria – and that hits me very much – my colleague Missethon, and forces the homoehe light. He told me he's going to Vienna from time to time and he listens a bit into the mood. I think that was less in locals, that must have been the Rosa Lila Villa where he was around. – From a Styrian point of view, I can only say: Dear Hannes Missethon, return home to Styria, there you are in good hands! [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] Then there is my favorite, Mrs. Kdolsky, today in “Austria” on the cover picture. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the newspaper “Austria” up to date.]] So I can only say, A black minister in red and green, the blue wonder! [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] I honestly said an ambivalent relationship to Mrs Kdolsky: I like her a bit, and a bitel I'm having a hard time with her. I also very much appreciate the pig-bread, but I would recommend that the integration of family agendas into the Ministry of Health be reversed. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Painful!]] No one agrees with her in the field of health, but we are very sure of the liberals in the area of families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] A short trip to the area of sports. We will host EURO 2008 in Austria next year, a huge chance for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Sonnberger.]] - Listen to me a bit! Don't always be in between! EURO 2008 is a huge opportunity for our country with a planned value added of around €400 million in economics and around 200 million television viewers around the globe. It is about putting our country in a great mood to sweep the television viewers all out of their armchairs. I looked at a biterl of the special sports budget, which is partly distributed to the Bundesliga. I already admit that we have a very good budget for sports, but there would be more possible, because the small clubs outside the country hardly reach the promotion, all this will be deducted from the upper floors. If we go here now and get this success-dependent participation that we get for sports promotion, from 3 to 5 percent, for example, then this would mean cutting the funds down to the bottom, and any functional who runs down, who has to drive up sponsors and sacrifice his free time would be very grateful. I think that would be a very, very good step in this budget. A small trip, since I am also a female expert, to the budget chapter women. [[Rejoicing]] I don't even know myself out of there in front of loud back and forth. [[Abg. Faul: That's no wonder!]] There's the thing that's going to be fighting the bums, I'm all confused. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's so embarrassing! It's so primitive-painful! That's inconceivable!]] If that's the mesh we're supposed to be messing with, I can say, This was easier also: with a deep look in our beautiful eyes; there we did not need 8 million for the women's budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12788	The next item is the speech by Mr Neugebauer. 5 minutes of speaking time, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12810	Madam President. My dear! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen behind me on the raised bench! I would like to comment on what Mr Oellinger said about the necessary conversion of the hall: I have not gone into these things, but what bothers me is that Parliament is actually in control of the government and I should actually talk to the members of the government, but must turn my back on them. But when I talk to them, I can't talk to the microphone. Maybe a solution has already been thought of here, but that's something that's quite easy for me to rotate? [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser:... Maybe a spin plate!]] You're rotating in another question at the moment, but that's not a problem at all, dear friend! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have followed Mr Rossmann's speech on the administrative reform very closely, and I would like to make it clear that we have a very high expectation of the state reform debates. Administrative reform is a permanent process, on which we agree. I mean, you don't have to be of an opinion with the Josef Cap, he says with the countries he doesn't agree to be too powerful. Only: There will be no way by which parallels between the federal government, the countries, the municipalities and what we have to do towards Europe will be properly diagnosed once. There is, I think, a lot of potential inside, but that's a different level. I want to go a level “deeper”, namely, to make it clear and focus on the fact that a lot of potential is also in the small, daily environment, if you use the know-how, the experience of the employees very easily. There are excellent activities, I refer, for example, to the 2006 Administrative Innovation Programme of the Federal Government, on which the current Qualification Plans are based, or to the “Office Manager” which the Chamber of Commerce, together with the Public Service Trade Union, grants, knowing that an excellently functioning public service has proved to be an important parameter for clean and orderly economy. I think that it is also an hour's time in the future to draw from the experience of our colleague and colleague. As far as administration as a whole is concerned, we are absolute leaders in federal, national and local authorities, not only in Europe. There is a new proof of this: The Swiss Institute IMD shows us in terms of quality of life in the World Competitiveness Yearbook 2006 – and this is tested by 70 parameters in more than 80 industrial nations, not just the focus of safety, education and health – that we are absolutely top-notch on the basis of the excellent results in public administration, that is, number one. We also always participate in the Speyer competition, wherever we “clean” prices. For example, the example of e-Government has already been mentioned in this context today, where it has also been possible through innovations from the group of colleagues to come to modern online applications for the electronic tax declaration. I recall, for example, ELAK, the electronic act where we found international attention and imitation in the Federal Administration. I say this because it is common to praise the public service in Sunday's speeches, but otherwise it is uncritically critical of him. Efficiency is required by the public service, with as few staff as possible. We know that in a good social partnership relationship between ministerial responsibility on the one hand and local staff representatives on the other, there is also the need for inter-temporary adaptation, if something goes wrong, and if that does not work, the Public Service Trade Union will do a little bit of work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I recommend, ladies and gentlemen, that what Mr Silhavy and Mr Lopatka have put together in perspective. There are small things, such as the summary in the back office area in the large government building. And then I recommend the time stamp service of the Federal Office for Eich and Surveying. It says in here that 100 million are saved. That doesn't say anything yet. By the way, this has grown on the “mist” – under quotations – of the employees, because the head of the Federal Office also allows the employees this freedom to be innovative here. The fact that public services or public services operate is taken for granted by citizens by the economy. The tireless work and the consistent and object-oriented use of the colleagues behind it are very, very grateful to everyone at this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12868	Mrs Silhavy is next spoken. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12890	Madam President. High house! Mr Neugebauer, I would like to thank you very much for your contribution to the debate, because I think it is essential to say here also officially that: the administration in Austria is quite innovative that people are working here, who really know what they are talking about and what they are working with, that people with a high level of commitment are doing these activities, and that the people who work in the administration are quite open to new ones. So the picture that you still have in mind: the official, the official – usually the image of the male official with sleeves – has for a long time no longer corresponded to the reality in the administration, there is no longer any longer. I think we should also present to the public what the people who are behind the term “administrative” actually do. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP.]] They have addressed the issue of administrative reform, not just in relation to state reform, where the results will be discussed after the summer. But it is also about the small steps of the administrative reform. We currently have three major projects in progress: One is the administrative innovation projects, which are under way, then the projects relating to services in the federal government, which focus on the internal concentration of services and on efficiency improvements, and we have launched the administrative quality offensive as a new boost in the administrative reform. There is also a quality offensive because it is important for me to tell the citizens that it is not only about savings measures, but also about the fact that we really achieve quality for citizens by shortening over time by securing quality, but also by achieving quality for the Austrian site. It should also be said officially here: A well-functioning administration is also an essential factor for the Austrian location, and we can also be proud of it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is undisputed that ICT is one of the major economic growth impulses and one of the essential technologies for the future and that we can still expect further growth and employment opportunities here. In this area too, the administration in Austria is a real model. With the E-Government project, we have achieved one place in the EU-wide ranking, and it is a challenge for us to keep it, and again and again new ideas to make new offers and offer new services. However, it is also important to me to point out that we – the colleague Neugebauer has addressed the ELAK, the electronic act in the federal government – are in this new segment through such models, so to speak, door openers for the export economy in Austria, in this new area. And I think it should be kept to the administration. One should not only see the cost factor, but also see the benefits that a well-functioning administration brings. Last but not least, Mr Neugebauer: The amounts mentioned in each project are, as it were, still being examined. These are the assessments of the individual departments that I think you have to look at once again. But it is essential, I believe, that we try to make new quality standards for agreements and contracts with these new administrative quality projects. In fact, we make target agreements, which means that those concerned also feel bound to what they are bringing in to proposals for projects. I think this is an essential difference and an essential quality leap, and I am admittedly very proud that it was possible to achieve this in such a short time. In conclusion: I would really like to see all of us to discuss the issue of administrative reform in real terms, as we are speak of thousands of people who, for Austria, for our country, for the people, do a high-quality job for the economy. I would also like to thank all employees at this point, especially for their innovative and modern access to innovations for the benefit of the population and the location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12970	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e12991	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank – also the Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I will once again devote myself to a subject which was already a half hour or an hour ago; the Minister for Women was still present at that time. I shall nevertheless address the issue of women's policy and, above all, what the Federal Minister has said, namely: What's cross-sectional matter? I would like to start by saying that the Federal Minister meant that women's policy is primarily cross-sectional, and she will interfere, even though the colleagues do not always like to see it, because it is a matter of fair budget allocation. – This may have been written to Mr. Zanger in the main book: It's not about the eyelash of women who might confuse the men. This means that women do not achieve any more budget or other better positions in society. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sburny: On the contrary!]] Exactly, yes, on the contrary: This usually means that they stay where they are, and have no ascent opportunities and do not get more money from their own effort. But: The Minister has said that she will do so in the future. I asked myself: Why hasn't she already done it at this budget? Then: There was, unfortunately, not really much to find, which would actually operate a continuous gender budgeting. And I'll explain to you three examples of what that might mean. For example, the increase in the tax on mineral oil and the flat rate paid. The fact is that only those people who have income above €130 will receive this flat rate; with lower incomes it is no longer possible to drop it. That means: Who deserves how much in this country? It is known that women earn between 20 and 23 percent in Austria on average less than men. That is to say, according to our calculations – as is the source of wage tax statistics, the income report of the Court of Auditors – that one third of women have income lower than this €1 100. In other words, one third of the women have no claim at all to this penalty – and they don't get it either. That is, this increase in mineral oil tax and, at the same time, the penalty rate mean that women get less of it again and get more men. That would be a point where the Minister of Women will say, on presentation of these considerations and in the discussion, which probably also took place in the Council of Ministers, that: I can't do that! We must ensure that women do not pull back and have no right to money where they already earn less! That would be an example of where it would be important to introduce gender budgeting! Second example: increasing funds for economic promotion, promotion of the Austrian Economic Service Gesellschaft mbH. – More money is planned for 2007 and 2008, an increase of 12.7 percent compared to 2006. But if you look at who gets how much of this funding, and if you see that women in Austria are among those entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who run small businesses – and 95 percent of all female entrepreneurs belong to the group of micro-enterprises – and if they receive only 17 percent of the funds from the AWS support actions, you have to say: That's not half! That's not even a third, not even a quarter! So we can see again where imbalances exist, where farms are much more promoted, which are in men's hands. There too, the Minister for Women would be required and would have said something to rework the funds. Third example: the field of victim protection. – Yes, good and important that there are now also increases here. [[Abg. May. Worm: Essential!]] Yeah, that's all right! But if you look at the use of resources for police and violence, you have to say: Although it is said that the protection of victims would benefit 90 percent of women, it is only 0.23 percent of the budget for the security executive in the budget of the Federal Ministry of the Interior. This too is an area that would look different if you were actually doing gender budgeting. There would also be much more money... [[Abg. May. Worm: The Ministry of Justice also has a lot...!]] Yes, but in total, if you look at the entire budget of the Ministry of the Interior, that's far away from it. And here the Minister of Women and also you, my colleague, and others, should look to make the budgets so that these funds actually benefit women as much as it would be necessary. Another point on how the gender aspects were dealt with in the budget itself. It is already interesting – I would like to take two examples –: Do you know what is called the gender aspect of the budget in the Social Ministry's budget? – The disabled billions. So, I wonder why the Minister for Social Affairs and the Minister for Women could agree. This has nothing to do with specific gender issues or women's promotion. In the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, for example, in the field of active labour market policy, 50 percent of all gender-specifically eligible expenditures apply to active labour market policies for women. Interesting: 50 percent of all gender-specific expenses! We know that women are disadvantaged in the labour market. We know that women deserve much less. And then 50 percent of the gender expenditure is used for women and the other 50 percent for men again? – Excuse me, but that is not how we present ourselves with active labour market policy. I would also like to mention one point on income shears. It has already been said by the current ÖVP member and former Minister for Women's Smoking Call that Austria is still above the EU average, as far as income shears are concerned, not the 18 percent, as is currently the EU average, but Austria is more than 20 percent, i.e. almost 22 percent. And so Austria is really in the lower third of the EU countries. Of the former Western EU countries, only Germany and the United Kingdom are even worse; all those who are here in our area – Slovakia, Estonia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic – are countries that had a different system. In Austria, women earn significantly less than men. What is to be done about this is not what the Minister for Women said either. I am missing the strategic considerations in their speech – and also in this budget – which can be made in order to close the income shears in order to promote women in top positions in order to promote women in companies. The Greens have repeatedly presented models in the past, for example, that economic promotion is linked to women's promotion. We have also developed a concept here, an equal treatment balance. We have had a test phase with companies willing to do so. The 50 companies have participated and have shown what they have to do with the proportion of women employed, the proportion of women in hierarchies and income-righteousness. Most of them were very benevolent and found: Yes, it makes sense to do that! It also helps them to develop this and see how women actually get to higher posts through promotion measures. I expect this kind of thing to be proposed by this Federal Government, by a Minister for Women, namely. As I said, we have already tried to do this, there are concrete proposals. It is so often the accusation of the government factions: The opposition does not make any concrete proposals at all! To do this, I have to say: We'd have a few in this direction! But again: Why is this not happening in this policy? Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that a woman's minister who has taken up the idea of actually seeing women's policy and gender policy as a cross-cutting matter has not contributed to this budget to the extent that she could and how we have imagined it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13086	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13108	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Volksanwälte! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Mrs Lunacek, if you complain that there is too little gender aspect for you, for example, in the Ministry of the Interior's budget, I would like to say: The women are God thanks also to the Ministry of the Interior not only to be found on the victim side, but of course also to be found as policemen, administrative officials and so on. Of course, there is a need for appropriate support measures, only they are still not to be found among the victim protection facilities. You know very well that victim protection facilities are not only taught by the Ministry of the Interior, but also by the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Women. With regard to analyses to be carried out if you want to draw up appropriate plans: Here the Minister of Women has pledged that she will prepare a women's report – no longer available since 1995 – because we need appropriate data. Unfortunately, this has been missed in recent years, Mrs. Colleague. But now to the Volksanwälten and Volksanwälten. The People's Procuratorate – many know that – was established in the era Kreisky and fulfils essential democratic functions: It produces the confidence of citizens in the state, calls abuses, makes binding recommendations and can challenge regulations before the Constitutional Court; and it has already done so. This creates legal peace and legal certainty, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore very important that the public prosecutorship is supported in its resources and thus its work is facilitated. What is needed is a sufficient budget and, of course, a good infrastructure provision for this institution. Every cent is well-designed to invest in this public prosecutorship – well-designed in the interests of the citizens who accept this institution very well. Mr Riener pointed out that more than 16 000 cases had been dealt with last year. Over 7 000, yes, almost 8 000 examination procedures have been completed. As chairman of the Citizens' and Petitions Committee, I would like to thank you very much for treating our seven citizens' initiatives and 19 petitions that we have given you so carefully, and for your comments that you have sent to us. This has helped us very much in our work, has facilitated our work and led us to some change in the law. – Thank you very much and continue to be successful!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13150	Mr Aspöck is next spoken. 6 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13171	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Representatives of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! – Old German Chancellor Kreisky said a famous sentence at the time: More than 1 million schilling debts than an unemployed person. – This sentence, ladies and gentlemen, but does not entitle Old Federal Chancellor Kreisky to be the debtor of the Second Republic. If Mr President-in-Office of the Council said stupidly in his remarks that he should not fall into the debt trap of the 1970s and 1980s, then Mr Stumpfully left out something quite conscious here: the debt traps of the nineties. That's where it went! [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: That's not true!]] Here I have, freshly printed from the computer, the statistics of the Austrian National Bank on government debt. It is only about the federal debt – everything converted into euro –: 1970: 3.42 billion, 1980: 18.96 billion, 1990: 62 billion. And now the time comes when the ÖVP is full in the coalition, in the boat: From 1990 with 62 billion to 1999 almost a doubling to 117.94 billion! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, do You are not always as if only others were involved in the debt in Austria, in this case the SPÖ! That's not true! They from ÖVP were at the forefront of debt making! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grossruck: This has nothing to do with the budget now!]] This has something to do with the budget! Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. And he deliberately failed to mention and forget that the ÖVP was the worst debt driver in the nineties! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I now come to a very different subject, ladies and gentlemen, first of all to federal legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals are in favour of a comprehensive renovation of this plenary room, but that does not mean that we should simply throw out money on examples of where money is being poured out, even in the renovation of this plenary room. That's what we think about it. Numbers of € 70 million are up for us horror numbers and do not find our consent! [[Abg. Grandruck: That's wrong! Quite clearly!]] Now on the subject of administrative court. We, too, welcome the increase in resources for the administrative court. Nevertheless, all the funds that have been channelled into the administrative court have not led to what we wanted to achieve, that is short, transparent, rapid procedures for the citizen. We are therefore in favour of a comprehensive reform, as was already discussed in great agreement in the Constitutional Convention. All previous steps to discharge the administrative court have simply proved to be not really targeted. We liberals therefore believe that, regardless of a later general state reform, reform of the Administrative Court should now be promoted. Now is the time for such a reform, and one should not wait for a major state reform, which is initially postponed to the Sankt-Nimmerly Day, to be carried out. Our concept – it was also discussed in the Constitutional Convention – is true administrative courts in the countries, with judicial staff and as a final, second instance. The activities of the Federal Administrative Court should, by analogy, be limited to specific cases to the position of a Supreme Court in the judicial system. We believe that this could make the procedures much more efficient and faster. As a result of the occupation of judges in the national administrative courts, what is repeatedly referred to is that this is not so easy and so on, not the case with any other state Senate. The independent judges – you can rely on it – are used well in the second instance on average. I am therefore entitled to make the following request on behalf of the Liberals: [[Quoted print version removed]] I should like to make another motion for a resolution concerning the Constitutional Court, which I agree with in order to avoid speaking time to the following speakers of my club: motion for a resolution by Mr Aspöck, Mr Haimbuchner, Mr Gradauer, Mr Gradauer, on procedural acceleration by a Constitutional Court, which is a permanent meeting, and the necessary new planning points to be created, “The Federal Government is invited to submit a government template to the National Council, which includes a procedural acceleration and thereby an increase in legal protection, by a permanent constitutional court.” I thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13279	The motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Aspöck, Mr Haimbuchner, Mr Grabauer and others have been properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13398	The next item is the report by Mr Reheis, which is an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13422	Madam President. Mrs Lunacek, in her speech, said that all those who deserve less than the minimum tax income, in particular the women, cannot benefit from the new increased rate of penalty. – That’s wrong! The right thing is: Yesterday, the government parties have tabled an amendment to the Budgetary Accompanying Act, which provides for a penalty of €90 for the group of persons who earn less than €1 130. [[Abg. Lens: They were not there, the Greens!]] That was decided yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13460	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. He's done four minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13481	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. Volksanwalt! High house! I should like to comment on the comments made by Mr Oellinger and Mrs Stoisits. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is in favour of modernising and renovating this hall, but with an eye-to-face view. There is a need for renovation and modernisation in this House, but it is also a matter of keeping an eye on the costs. Conversion will take place taking into account the criteria which are suitable for disabled persons, which is of course the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] A few comments on electoral reform: The reduction of the active electoral age to 16 years will bring about a new task, because we know that young people do not necessarily want to do so. Only 20 percent imagine that this is very attractive for them. Therefore, it will also be necessary to rethink political education in the field of schools, to think about how we can better pass on political education to young people in schools. I believe, however, that parents have the same responsibility to educate young people into critical people and to provide them with information and to discuss it with them. In this respect, there are still a few tasks ahead of us that we should solve together. But above all, schools should not have to stand up for party policy, but they must be taken into account that there is objective information available there. Finally, after many decades of discussion, the choice of letters will be introduced domestically. I mean, that's in the interests of voters, that's a customer service, that's absolutely necessary – people want it too. I am convinced that this measure will increase voting participation accordingly. It is, of course, necessary to ensure the secret choice even in the future, but in this context I have no concerns at all. Of course, even more important is the fundamental right to vote. And this is to be regarded as even higher in comparison with these two goods. Simplification of voting abroad is also an important objective of this Federal Government. The witness is supposed to fall away. At present one can only choose with a witness or in the presence of a notary, in the future an affidavit is to be fulfilled. There should also be foreign-Austrian electorate evidence in the representations, and in the future it should no longer be possible for foreign-Austrian voters to be removed from local electorate evidence without giving their consent. The extension of the legislative period to five years is another objective of this Federal Government. As the Upper Austrian – we have six years in Upper Austria – I can say that it works very well. And for the electors and Electors of the Greens, however, do not care how long a legislative period takes, since the Greens are always in opposition; whether they are four or five years long, the herb does not fatten either. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think that five years are a reasonable period of time, considering that it will take one month or another until the machinery starts inside. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] If you also consider that half a year before the elections God no longer knows how much can be moved, then, I think, the right measure has been found with these five years. [[Abg. Sburny: If you always need half a year for government negotiations...!]] I am already looking forward to the implementation of this electoral reform, because I see many improvements and opportunities for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13546	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13567	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Peter Sonnberger speaks of the Upper Austrian state government and believes in the same sentence that the Greens are basically in opposition. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] [[Abg. Großruck: We know what he meant!]] Some confusion seems to have taken place in the Upper Austrian ÖVP; it may be so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to talk about sport today, because it is also part of this budget debate. The sport has a special position that other areas would like to have. A significant part of the sport funding is linked to the revenue from the lotteries, from which gambling is linked. Of course, it can be different whether it is so positive that the gambling in Austria flourishes so great and apparently more and more money goes into gambling; In any case, the fact is that sport benefits from this because it significantly increases the amount of money available for sport promotion. One can criticize this budget in detail, among other things, that the budget says that there will be 53 million out of sport funding, but the written budget request has been answered that it is expected to be 62 million. There is already the question of why you write something into the budget, of which you actually know or expect it to be different. I assume that the budget usually says what you really spend, but it must be noted that this is obviously not the case in many areas. But this is not only true of sport, but can be followed across the budget chapter. There are quite different information available in the Committee on Budgets. For example, they ask what the alternative schools get – the budget says €84,000, the Minister says: €300 000. Therefore, why we have a five-day budget debate is sometimes really questionable if we cannot even start by discussing what the projects are. One can certainly also criticise that projects for the European Football Championship in – how should I say? – are rather sluggishly budgeted. For example, for all stadium projects there is a placeholder with €1,000 in the budget, and that 14 months before the start of the European Championship. I would almost have wondered what this €1,000 per stadium in the area of sanitary facilities could be done in the Committee, but it seems that there are other budget items – I have heard that in the meantime. 15 million € are budgeted elsewhere, not in the sports budget. Looking beyond these sluggishnesses, it can be noted that: Sport is good in relation to other areas – Mr Zinggl is sitting in the back, so I am thinking about the culture, where it is much less enjoyable. The culture would probably also be pleased if the budget were linked to the lottery revenue, because then there would be much more for it. 60 million € for sport – within a few years an increase of almost 50 percent, that is remarkable. We will take this as an occasion to present a sign in spite of all the deficits in budgeting this time and to agree to the sports budget. However, there are already a few questions that should be answered more precisely. So budgeting seems to be okay. The question of what happens to the money is then already something where it becomes a little more complicated. There is also the good will – this is also a reason for our approval – that sports promotion is changed, that women's promotion is significantly expanded, that there should be more money in the field of school projects – that is, signs that go in the right direction. But of these now more than € 60 million in the field of special sports promotion, exactly 37.5% go to the ÖFB alone. You can now discuss whether this is particularly useful. The story was that the Toto money was money from football bets. In the meantime, Toto is no longer taking place, but the ÖFB still receives a large part of this cake. But the greater difficulty is, no one knows exactly what is happening to this money. By the way, this does not only concern the public authorities, there are also major extensions to the ASKÖ, UNION, ASVÖ. I believe that all Members here in the House must admit that we know only partly what is happening to this money, and that it would be necessary to know how it is actually used. At the ÖFB – colleague Zweytick is just sitting here – there are already questions. If you now count 37,5 percent of 60 million, then we are at an annual rate of about € 22 million, € 24 million – for an association? This is a nice amount of funding, which seems not to go to the top sports, but where the width is to be promoted. When I see the disaster that has arisen in the meantime, I wonder: For example, how much money has flown to the GAK's junior academy? – I would very much doubt that nothing is going to happen, because if there was nothing going on, I would ask myself where the €22 million to €24 million per year will be left, because, so to speak, only the micro-organisms will certainly not be enough for this money. [[Abg. Zweytick: Nothing at all, unfortunately!]] And who knows what summaries in sports, especially in football, to the 2nd? Curkerlliga East is paid, can imagine about with... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Who is this, the “2. Gurkerlliga Ost’?]] You're saying the payments to football players are transparent and open? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Who's getting the funding? - The clubs. And what do the clubs do with these funding? And who guarantees that this does not flow into exactly where there are then double budgets, where at once two... – I note: [[Abg. Wheelers: You have no idea!]] [[Abg. Grill:...! What do the clubs do with the funding?]] Mr. Zweytick says from these 22 million to 24 million... – If you would listen to me, I could say something. [[Abg. Grill: Repeat what you said!]] If you keep talking, it'll be difficult. The 22 million to 24 million do not seem to flow into the promotion of young associations, they apparently also flow very limited into the promotion of young associations. Therefore, the question really arises: Where? That's exactly the point. As an expert in the agricultural area, show me where in the sports report there is what is spent on promoting! We don't find anything! On a half side says: 37.5%, 22 million to 24 million for support. [[Abg. Rädler: You have never worked in an association!]] But there's nothing inside that's done with it. I would like to make it clear in the future that these amounts are transparent. If you still say that this is not necessary in football, this is probably no longer to help. That is urgently necessary! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill:... Curve!]] You don't need to look at me like that, you know just as much as I do that every Kleinstverein player's hands are paid in the amount of thousands of euros, where there's no idea of taxation inside. It's absurd that every time that this comes up, you act as if that wasn't the case. Do you know what Junuzovic, the Graz national player, has in there in official transparency? – 25 000 € annual salary! 25 000 € annual salary for a national player! Everyone who knows the conditions knows that it is only about applying tax-free methods. No wonder that at the GAK a debt mountain of €50 million appears at once, where – and this is the background – the financial and the local authorities apply for bankruptcy proceedings. [[Abg. Rädler: You are an expert!]] Why? - Because they didn't pay and because there are tax debts. That's the situation in football. However, if there is funding, transparency should be significantly increased. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And if that doesn't happen soon, Austrian football won't come out of this critical situation. There's a real wall, and all those who work in a club say: It's great with us, and we're not talking about it! There are players who appear, Mr. Mimm of Tyrol, who went to the public with double contracts as a player representative. [[Abg. Head: This has so much to do with federal sport promotion! Zero!]] – But the ÖFB receives € 22 million to € 24 million per year. [[Abg. Head: The ÖFB is not the Bundesliga!]] – Yes, but I suppose that funds received by the public authorities in any form also have to do with the football league. For if that were not the case, the question would be: Where's the money going? - Yes, not in the professional field. [[Abg. Head: Not in the professional area!]] Then, as a former ÖFB representative, finally put it on the table, what happens to this money! This has been demanded for years, but it has not happened for years. It's high time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13799	Next item is the report by Mr Marizzi. He's done two minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13820	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Appreciate Volksanwälte! I am going to deal with the Administrative and Constitutional Court in my two minutes today. Klubobmann Van der Bellen has already pointed out the significant increase in the budget of the Administrative Court – we are also pleased about it. I come back to how many cases arise, and this is important, especially for citizens and the economy. The budget figures are known. We have €8 million at the Constitutional Court, €13 million at the Administrative Court. Some remarks: It is important for us Members and, above all, for citizens, the duration of dealing with these procedures in a reasonable manner. We must try to achieve this – that is particularly important – that the highest courts shorten the duration of the proceedings. The activity reports show a numerical picture – I am not presenting a numerical cemetery here – of 4,000 procedures, and we have almost nine months of procedure. The same picture appears at the Verwaltungsgerichtshof. Regrettably, two cases from 1999, 71 cases from 2000, 1 925 cases from 2003. I think it is one of our main concerns that the duration of the procedure is reduced. I would like to thank the judges and, above all, their employees for having succeeded in speeding up the proceedings this year, despite a small staff ceiling. Together it was decided to introduce the asylum court as soon as possible, because human tragedies that are unworthy of a rule of law are developing. In the interests of asylum seekers, it will be quickly clarified whether or not the asylum seekers will receive asylum in Austria. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13869	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13890	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! It's going to be You are probably less surprised that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will not be able to support the large-coalition celebrations, even in the field of sports. We have already debated this in other areas. I am not saying that what is available on the budget is really critical now, that would be really unfair, but it is the accusation – and it is entitled – that it is to make the entire budget that it is basically a budget of missed opportunities, not without any trace of the sports budget. I can already imagine that maybe one or the other believes that I'm criticizing for the criticism, but you're making it a bit difficult for us too. I would have liked to have really praised this sports budget from here. I would have liked to thank you for taking the opportunity that you now have due to an economic situation that is working in your hands, where you do not have to assume that it will stop immediately tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, to make great changes and to set new priorities. I would have praised you if you had presented a budget which basically corresponds to the actual social importance of sports, so that it is not exactly as it has always been in the past, that one is behind reality and behind what sports means for a society, budgetaryly behind it. Ladies and gentlemen, this joy which I would have liked to have made myself when I read it has been lost to me. Now I understand, that will be relatively indifferent to you. But the many, many thousands of sports enthusiasts, sportsmen and athletes should not be indifferent to us. There would have been more. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So you once again left out a chance. It is indeed true that the whole picture of the court handing over in the State Secretariat for Sports was symbolic of the whole procedure. One has staged a season run, i.e. the orange State Secretary has come with his staff and passed it on to the Black Secretary of State. That is to say, the same content is transported on. Everything that's had. The one who wears it is still another, but we are basically moving further in the circle. Managing instead, ladies and gentlemen, is unfortunately also the motto of this sports budget. And since it is no use at all, if the President of the Federal Chancellor, who, on the basis of his permanent crashers, should be busy with both ears anyway, then makes himself and says that he makes the sport the chief thing. - Well, yes. So he himself has thrown his entire political weight into sports policy, and see, it has not really come out too much. In the field of sport, if we compare it with what has been announced with what is possible, we have the same, under quotation marks, "pervasive successes" as we have in other budgets. have rich as in the care area. This is also something like this, which is also a chief issue of the Federal Chancellor and something where one can feel the special manuscript of the SPÖ. There is only funding, and instead of being financed, we say, opaque, halfhearted and not thought for a long time legalized. Take the pensioners here! There, too, it is not valued as it would actually be necessary, but what happens to this chief thing there is, you continue to feed the pensioners with 1.6 percent and still forget to say that there is a proper difference between gross and net. So what is chief in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen, this has for a few months had a little shaky side-taste, if I may say so. And that the Federal Chancellery is not exactly the first address in terms of impact in all political areas, that has shown enough for the past weeks and months. That is why it is so bad, ladies and gentlemen, because we all agree on a few points. Sport is something very important for our society, something very important, which is basically not high enough to be estimated. Think of the educational function of sports where young people learn that rules are necessary that you can achieve more in a community than if you always try with your head through the wall. I'm not talking about that it's a thousand times better if the young people stay somewhere with a qualified care at a sports court than if they hang around somewhere and then maybe get on the wrong track. Thinking You have the important health policy function of sport! Remember the benefits we have with regard to avoiding the consequences of illness! That's something we say there's always a plus coming out for society. And think, above all, of the economic benefits, ladies and gentlemen, which you would like to highlight in particular about the EURO 2008, but where you have to say that if you are going through this budget with regard to what is left for EURO 2008, then you would not even come to the idea that this event will take place next year in Austria. So here, too, where you're going to knock and don't clap around, you're really not even slutting. I am not talking about the only €6 million that is available in addition to the application of this event. The Swiss are far ahead of us! They are co-organizers of this project, and they have clearly recognized that it makes sense to invest here in a sustainable way in order to bring about a corresponding benefit for the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] – You may have done so, but you have not implemented it. They therefore come and at least focus on this EURO 2008 in what they put forward placardively and what you prefer as headlines in all your sports policy considerations. Other areas are seriously neglected for this purpose. We would have liked a lot of things to do. For example, what about the entire Legionary Absorber in Austrian sport, something that we must experience in the Football League now sad? If I look at the fact that we started with 95 legionaries at the spring start of the Bundesliga, I wonder where should there be a chance for the young Austrian athletes? Take it here once! Where is there a master plan for the sports venues? I understand that football is important, but you have to do more, but you also have to think out over the edge of football in the medium term. There's a lot to do, too. Where do you ensure the means for an attack on the systematic doping? For example, how about a dedicated prosecutor's office in this area? There you leave the associations alone and challenge them in certain areas. Ladies and gentlemen, when I get this together, what's going on: It's not the worst part of the budget, that needs to be said fairness half-way. However, it must also be said that it would have been much, much more possible, and we would have wished for the social importance of sports to be expressed in a budgetary manner. As in other areas, you have missed this opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e13984	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. You want to talk for 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14006	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Now, if everyone is talking about sports, I can do that. Are we marathon fit? – To succeed in a marathon run, it takes hard preparation and a good strategy. If you want to get to the target, you have to divide your resources properly. We will be able to observe it in three days at the Vienna City Marathon. Nor is the quality of a budget a coincidence. The Minister of Finance must use the taxpayers properly. What does it need? – A smart mixture of future orientation and safeguarding of today’s standard of living. And this wise mixture has succeeded our Minister of Finance. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Each euro of the government budget contains the performance of enterprises, the performance of each individual. First they make it possible for our country to be a leader in social security. But still, some are wondering: Can I afford my life in the future? This is quite clear: The Schüssel government has already raised the minimum pensions. It doesn't have to live under the poverty line. This long-term demand of the Senior Office, and this is a special concern to me, is now also set out in the budget. To this end, Minister of Finance: The increase in pensions according to the Pensionist Price Index is and remains a very important concern for us. Since modern values are now being discussed. Is there anything more modern than the ancient Christian value of solidarity? In figures, that means: In the double budget 445 million extra expenditure on social security. We want generation justice. What does that mean? – opportunities for the boys, but no cuts for the elderly. And exactly this piece of art Wilhelm Molterer succeeded. Thank you. [[Congratulations Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Isaac Newton once said he had seen more than his predecessor because he was standing on the shoulders of giants. – Wilhelm Molterer was able to build on the success of the Schüssel government, therefore the budget. One-way, yeah, generation fit. Unfortunately, some media don't act so fair. On the website of a daily newspaper there is a report about pensioners with this illustration: No pensioners bankerl, but a bite in the water glass. [[The speaker referred to the corresponding broadcast.]] We don't let seniors do that anymore. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's seniors are active, are involved in volunteering, they do a lot for our society, for grandchildren, for children, for all of us. Such a picture in the media, we will fight it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: With the help of the dentists!]] In short, the budget gives reason for optimism. It is also a good day for older people today. The Home Care Act happened to the Council of Ministers. We want a new regulation of care and care before the summer. Mr. Finance Minister, a good budget, fit for generations, you have our trust.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14070	Next item is the report by Mrs Zwerschitz. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14092	Madam President. Minister! Minister! And all the other valuable guests! Women's budget: Advice on eating disorders, professional advice, girl advice, prevention advice, health care, psychosocial care, advice for prostitutes, advice in the field of housing security, housing advice. – The arch is a wide variety of what women's initiatives are doing in Austria. Unfortunately, from Austria relatively unthankful, these women's initiatives. They are very badly secured, and they will still receive very little money in the future. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You get more!]] – Yes, it is true, 500 € each institution receives a request answer. I don't know if they can really make big jumps. The Minister's answer to the question was 500 €. Great is, in Austria there will be better promotion for violence intervention agencies in the future, for women's homes, for crisis telephones. We think that's great. It would have been due years ago, however. What we do not understand, however, is why the Ministry of Women has to pay half of it, apparently the victim's side, and the Ministry of the Interior pays the other half. Does this mean that the Ministry of the Interior is responsible for men and not for women? We couldn't quite find out. Maybe we'll find out. In any event, I think it is an interesting fact that the Minister of the Interior is clearly responsible for the male part of the population, but the Minister of Women must take the female part. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – No, not allowed, but must. The Minister for Women has numerous other agendas for which she would urgently need the money, and she certainly knows that. The expenses for women's evenings increase by more than half, 52.6 percent if I remember correctly. The only problem is: It is not the additional subsidies that make up these increases, but the costs of the women's section in the Federal Chancellery are getting much higher. Does this mean that we will finance everything possible through work contracts, we will finance businesses, but the women's interests will remain in the final effect? Well, look at it, anyway. Now on a point that is also very important to me, which I have already mentioned here: the children's cribs. At 12 percent we are currently in the care of children under three years of age, as we all know. And we have been able to learn about the media over weeks, how the various ministries imagine what number and in what large numbers these expenses will move so that we can finally come to the required EU quota. It is particularly interesting in that women's minister is a SP minister, because in Styria, exactly from the same party, a state councillor, namely Mrs Vollah, has decided that the childcare rate will be changed, i.e. that more children will come to care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] So, not about quality assurance, but quite the contrary, one tries to make it even more difficult. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Somehow, it seems to be the same as at the class student maximum 25. She's got a big announcement. But due to the declining birth rates, not much more employees are left in the final effect. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] – I do not represent an ÖVP opinion. They're coming in anyway. You're welcome to answer me if you mean. Just as I have heard this now – I have talked to several people – this regulation in Styria now leads to the change in the care key that kindergartens are already being agreed that kindergartens are likely to be locked up – locked in at a time when we are supposed to increase the number of childcare places, make an education program in childcare facilities, and finally offer women the opportunity to set up timely, education-oriented, child-friendly care for the children, exactly at that time. I'm sorry, but I can't find that women have improved a lot, except, as I said, in the field of violence. That's what we're looking forward to. If Mr Gusenbauer has said that we should bring in ideas here, I must say that I am sorry that he was in opposition for a long time, he knows that it is possible to bring ideas into the budget debate, which unfortunately are largely unheard of. Because I do not assume that the SPÖ together with the ÖVP will only change one point at this budget, so the ideas cannot be at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14159	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker. You've done two minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14181	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Unfortunately, the Court of Auditors has not been well served by some policy players in recent years. It has been said over and over again in connection with the Eurofighter deal: four times checked. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – They were also one of them, Mr Grillitsch. Four times checked, nothing found, all right. It's not all right now, and the public is quite starved and says: What about the Court of Auditors? It is therefore necessary to clarify. Has the Court of Auditors been able to examine Rumpold's company? – No, he doesn’t because he can only test the public sector. For example Air Chief Wolf commits the Court of Auditors to the truth? – Of course not, he has not even told the truth in the Committee of Inquiry. Has the Court of Auditors been able to examine political responsibility? - Of course not. He has not been able to check how the five decisive people were getting breakfast. Or he's got it. Can the Court of Auditors examine lobbying measures? – Of course not, because only the relevant part could be examined. That is to say, I ask everyone – and Mr Murauer will probably put it back in half an hour – to stop saying that the Court of Auditors has examined all of this and that is why it is all right. They do so in a massive way to the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, on the contrary: Let us support the Court of Auditors, for example, in the field of auditing skills relating to local authorities. I think it is anachronistic that one is oriented towards a population. Financial sizes should play the crucial role here. I have not yet found anyone who has put forward a reasonable argument. Or the Court of Auditors should also consider participations of 25 percent. This is ultimately tax money. And here, too, it should be done in a economical, economic and appropriate way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14223	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. You've done 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14244	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mrs Bundesminister, I now wanted to congratulate the increase in the budget. She must have an excellent Finance Minister in this Federal Government, who was very generous to her. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I also have to give the Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany the right to do so, because women's policy is really a cross-sectional matter. Whether jobs are safe or not, this is not only important for us women. Especially important for us women, however, is family policy. And here are many questions: Can I, for example, stay with my children at home as a mother? How long can I afford that? What about the childcare places of the over 3-year-olds? What about the childcare places of the under 3 year olds? Can my husband go to Karenz? and much more. In fact, these are the questions, ladies and gentlemen, which concern the women outside. And of course they will not only be treated in the Women's Chapter. In recent years we have already answered many of these questions, such as the childcare allowance for all, which now also receives the housewives, the farmers, the self-employed, the students, with the afternoon care at the schools, with the extension of the kindergartens, with the father's care, with the right to part-time work and with the full account of the child's education periods on pensions. There was now a lot of things where the SPÖ did not go along. But now all of this is recognized. Now all of this has to be recognized, and that's good. Of course, I am really pleased that we will improve a lot together in the future. On the other hand, we will not get together so easily on the classic women's topics. And I would also like to give you an example from the recent past. Several people have applied for the management of the judicial institution in Eisenstadt. The independent assessment committee there beat a woman to the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, guess who got this job! – You have certainly guessed right: a very bad man, and that of the new Minister of Justice. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Probably had the wrong party book!]] I think it is strange for Mrs Bures to call for more jobs for women in top positions – and for her colleague in the Ministry of Justice to do exactly the opposite. I have put a parliamentary question to both ladies and I am really very curious about how they will answer these questions.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14290	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14311	Madam President. Mr. Minister! The Secretary of State! Mr President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser! Estimated Volksanwälte! I would particularly like to use the limited speaking time to thank the Court of Auditors for the excellent work you are doing with your team. Only recently has a report on the Unterinntal-Trasse in Tirol really caused excitement. They have shown and revealed that this important construction project in Tyrol, which is in itself important, has come to a massive price increase of €1.3 billion to € 1.9 billion, i.e. a huge cost explosion, accompanied by mismanagement and incorrect personnel decisions, to incredible remuneration measures: Incoming HTL graduates were paid with up to €6,000 gross monthly, i.e. unimaginable amounts! This was really an unimaginable mismanagement – in an area of which you have to say quite honestly that the current SPÖ councillor Lindenberger was previously working for this Brenner-Eisenbahn-Gesellschaft. You've really shown this. For this you really have a strong thank you, at least from our group, but, as I believe, also from the taxpayer, who seems to be represented only by our group and thus gives you indirect applause. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would even go on and think it is right that you can not only review such societies retroactively, but that you can also make accompanying financial control in real major projects, because: What do we have when we look back on what went wrong and what went wrong? I think it is important that, in large-scale projects of the Court of Auditors, the competence to be able to accompany these projects permanently. We will certainly become quite active in this direction in order to avoid further damage and further mismanagement. There is still much to be said – I have not actually come to speak on my main word record – but I do not want to overstep time and I should like to thank you very much for the really excellent reports that deserve to be discussed here in the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14351	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14372	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! Mr. Volksanwalt! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to refer you to Parliament's budget. It's been today. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I think a conversion also towards more democracy, a reconstruction that you don't need mountaineering shoes at the gallery in order to climb the steps is urgently necessary. There are various possibilities for this. I think that under the direction of President Prammer this conversion will certainly take place, because all the political groups here in this House have already found themselves ready to do so and will certainly also contribute to it again. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the number of visitors and the number of visitors in Parliament are also a debated example of how important it is that citizens can see, participate in and participate here. Here, too, it is necessary for further measures to be taken that the House should open up to better reflect the field of policy. Another point is the training of apprentices, which is also taken very seriously and very strongly forced in our house. In addition to all other employees, a very important area is the staff of the computer department, which I would like to thank specifically. They always do excellent work and help us in all emergency situations regarding the Internet and computer appearances. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The colleagues from the computer department and all other employees deserved the applause. A thank you also applies to the internet presence, because you can easily get into the Internet from the public. There you can see all our areas of activity divided. I think there has been an important contribution here too to the fact that democracy is viable in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14426	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. 4 minutes speaking time. That is exactly what is going on until the short debate on the part of the sitting is over. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14448	Madam President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! When we look at the sports budget, we first note that since 1999, we have been continuously increasing the sports budget and today have a budget twice as high as before. With the increase in the budget for sport, we take into account the economic importance of this dynamic growing industry. Nevertheless, the economic factor sports is still underestimated. In Austria, every tenth job – more than 355,000 jobs – is related to sport. More than 7 percent of the gross domestic product is generated through sport – that is more than €15.4 billion gross value added. Sports is a cross-sectional matter, and a variety of different industries benefit from the excellent interaction between sports and business. This starts with the production sector of the companies, the sports goods industry – they have an excellent name all over the world – and goes through sports trade and sports tourism to the sports service providers. Small and medium-sized enterprises benefit from it as well as, above all, our large industrial enterprises. But also in the field of foreign trade, sports already plays a special, important role – especially winter sports. About 85 percent of Austrian skiers I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, but I'm Here an important contribution is made to the Austrian external trade balance sheet. After all, annual sports exports amount to around € 48.2 billion. In the area of tourism, it is the large sports events that we of course expect with EURO 2008 next year. The tourism country Austria can present itself here excellently in the world. The plus of nights in Austria through sports tourism is excellent. 57 million nights – that is a third of all nights – come from sports tourism. For more than two thirds of tourists, sport is a travel motive. Out of the big events, winter sports remain the sign for tourism in Austria. Here the image of our country is carried very positively outside. This is precisely the area, the interaction between our successful top athletes, the economy and the tourism regions works particularly well here. We must also remember this context when we think of our small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are constantly conveying this, and many small and medium-sized enterprises in the remote regions secure many jobs and training places here. Of course, we also want to apply for the 2014 Olympic Games so that a further step can be taken here for Austria and for the positive mood. There is now again a very recent contribution to doping. I think we all know that we have to go against deliberate doping rigorously. But what I want here as a representative of the athletes is that everyone is treated the same way, no matter what country and what sporting activities they come from, because only then is it really guaranteed that the ban on doping applies equally to all. As a ski president from Lower Austria, it is a great concern to me today, our injured Marlies shield, which has seriously injured itself this morning, to wish everything good, and I wish our sport for the future all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14512	I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. [[15:00:33]] Short debate on the reply 307/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14533	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Defence with the order number 307/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Mag. Kogler as an applicant for the request to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14570	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Briefly to the history so that everyone can understand what it's all about now. In fact, it is not about the minister of defence in office, but rather his predecessors were the subject of the request – but in the same office. Now we focus only on his first predecessor, Minister – now Minister of the Interior – Günther Platterjener Günther Platter, who – I believe – has used the words “cleaner”, “transparent” and “correct” for the last two, three years in his jargon much more often than any other word. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I still have nightmares from these Court of Auditors meetings today – in the Committee of Inquiry we were allowed to understand this again. You could ask what you wanted: The minister was written like a parrot – apologise for the expression, but he was written, no matter what pressing question! [[Abg. Amon: Unheard!]] He has read something to give of himself freely: Everything clean, everything correct and everything transparent! - He's still holding on to this day. I don't think he'll get that right either. [[Interlocutory calls from Dr. Brinek and Amon.]] In the meantime, the one in itself – I think we will agree on this – has become very sympathetic to Mr Platter's colleague, Mr Platter, quite well into the Bredouille. He has developed, despite this sympathy, or does not directly oppose it, a certain flexibility in looking for fat cups. Today, we want to light a very small neckline to see what can be called “clean, correct and transparent”. It is no secret that it has always been criticized or discussed – that has never been our topic, I have to say – that government members, also defence ministers, use SAAB 105 OE to complete mission trips or make rapid distance bridges, as is well argued. Now there's been a couple of suspects. Well, is it always? You should actually look at where there is actually flying. That's what we did. We have asked for a question and have raised once when flight movements have taken place by members of the government and ministers of defence. Federal Minister Darabos has answered that; he adds, of course, that he has only the registrations of the flight movements, but not the calendar of his predecessors. - That'll be so. As we know, this has happened as follows: The flight movements have been presented and transmitted to the previous ministers, and then it has taken weeks in the Ministry of Defence until the now Minister for the Interior of the Interior of Platter and a whole small army of officials have sought whether there are any dates appropriate to these very concrete flights. Once again and once less successful – but judge for yourself! I've only looked at one thing, I've only checked out one of 13 flights – and it's going from Tentweg to Innsbruck. I should like to know now that Innsbruck is a certain frequency of destination and start destination. [[Abg. Amon: Vienna too!]] So from Tentweg to Innsbruck. What was in Innsbruck? – A precious white concert. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] That's in the answer to the question. The Minister will then confirm this. I'm not looking for much, because you probably don't know what to answer then! The Rules of Procedure force us to do so, perhaps you can still make a contribution. Edelweiß-Concert 2004 – yes, this takes place at military music in Tyrol. You know what is happening to us as a destination – it is very often referred to as Innsbruck and various types of such events. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – No, my colleague, do you know what is going on? – The miner-berry-redoute of Allensteig – which is very much appreciated by the German army – is not here. There is no flight from Bregenz's place of residence, where the Minister proved that he did not fly from Altenrhein to Langenlebarn to be directly involved in the shopping experience. It's all right. It also irritates the Carinthian comrades that no flight to the very, very popular Karawanken-Karaoke, oriented by the Klagenfurt Office. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] He didn't show up there either. There's nothing there! But he was at the Edelweiß-Concert. We've researched this: The Edelweiß-Concert, you can read this in the Yearbook of the Military Diocese of Austria “Stay with us, O Lord!” – Yes, there really is! [[Ruf:Musikantenstadl]] [[Abg. Murauer: And what are you worried about?]] Edelweiß-Concert 2004: As part of this concert, the guest of honor was given a score of the “Günther PlatterMarsches” composed by the military chapel and the master of the military chapel. - That's how it stands here. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Murauer: And that bothers you?]] - No, that doesn't bother me at all. I only inform you of the contexts so that you know in the end what everything is “clean, correct and transparent”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] All this took place on a Saturday night in Tyrol. You see how conscientious we are researching! It actually happened. And there he was – that's what we have here in this question answer. I can tell you the date, I even want to tell you: It was the 17th of April, a Saturday, I correct, it was the 17th. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Grill: When was it really?]] And there it says: 16.! There are the notable ones among us. So what's the process? – The Edelweiß-Concert of Saturday evening near Innsbruck or directly in Innsbruck, at least not so far away from the suspected home of the now Minister of the Interior, has thus taken place. [[Abg. Murauer: unlikely!]] And now, of course, because of the miserable condition of the Austrian Federal Railways – you certainly agree! – no way to get there, but also the motorways are so bad that the service car will no longer find the way from Tentweg to Innsbruck in 48 hours. You see, if you looked at the other events, you'd probably come up with similar findings. You know, Mr. Platter has used this SAAB 105 and all the infrastructure to bridge this distance during this time – he doesn't even fly for an hour! – although there would certainly have been many other possibilities that would have been quite cheaper. [[Interlocutory calls from Amon and Großruck.]] The only thing that is clean and transparent is perhaps the Berggsbacherl in Tyrol, which runs by its doorstep. And this is also a mystery solution, why here is “Innsbruck”: Because he's always flown home – you won't believe anything else – or always to the Edelweiß-Concert. Do you maintain your precious white thesis? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – Mr Minister, save us, even if these are no longer your friends, as we are allowed to get back to the APA today! But I'm telling you: It must be in between... [[Abg. Gaál: What do you have against precious white?]] Well, the joke is always confused here with the fact that this has quite a serious background – but perhaps it is better for Mr Platter to understand: These are, of course, flight movements that cost something! And in one point we probably differ, Minister of State: The fact that the flight movements that have already taken place do not seem completely plausible to me, because an exercise purpose for the German army of “transporting of ministers” is not known to me, especially if there is no military exercise target at all. You would then have to say in reverse that the normal flight of persons is also a large part of the training. – You can still explain that! The fact is: A flight hour costs at least €5 800. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And it doesn't stay with an hour: To get from A to B, the pilot first has to move from his location to A, then to B – it's usually just a flight – then he returns. So it's about several hours and take-off and landing movements. Everything “clean”, everything “transparent”, certainly “correct”!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14770	On the issue of an opinion, Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14791	Madam President. Dear colleague on the government bank! High house! It does not deny a certain pikanery and irony, I would almost say that I have to answer here a request that I do not have to answer, because it is about my predecessor. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's about the answer, not about the request!]] But as provided for in the Constitution and in parliamentary practice, I have answered this question to the best of my knowledge and conscience. ==References== January, therefore, almost 20 days after my fishing, received the request from the Greens and answered it in time by the end of March. I would also like to live up to the desire that we discuss this here in the House. In my answer to the question, it is quite clear and penable where who flowed when and for what reason. This concerns questions 1 to 5 of the Greens. When replying, I was able to rely on the exact flight data to the officials of my ministry who, of course, lead a penable book about the flight movements of the federal army machines. It is clear from this data that, as I also explained in writing, the then Minister Scheibner – it has been further used not only to the Minister Platter but also to the former Minister Scheibner – has flown 15 times with SAAB 105 and Minister Platter has been transported 13 times by SAAB 105. The respective departure and arrival data can be found in the written answer to the question, as well as which members of the government accompanied the Minister of Defense – it was twice the then Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel. About the respective purpose of the flights, I have obtained information from my predecessors Scheibner and Platter, who have provided me with their reasons for the flights. This information is also available in the written reply. I assume that this has been done correctly. Should there be any doubt about this, you would have to look for the political path to my predecessors, but I assume that the data given by Mr Scheibner and Mr. Platter also corresponds to reality. Question 6 refers to whether non-military leaders have been transported with SAAB 105 since 2000. I would like to say quite clearly: According to the experts of my ministry, that was not the case. Regarding question 7, as regards the costs, which you, Mr Kogler, have explicitly referred to here: A flight hour with SAAB 105 costs 5 800 €. This includes costs for material conservation, for shipyards, for repairs, for fuel, for lubricants, for the crew and beyond, various calculatorial costs, such as functional depreciation of aircraft, spare parts stock and so on. On your questions 8 and 9, I can tell you that these flights were carried out under the title “Personal Transport”. According to the experts of my home, the pilots can book these hours of flight, even if it should look strange or like, under “exercise hours”. [[Abg. Head: What's strange about it?]] This means that no additional flight time has been incurred due to these flights. That's right. [[Abg. Head: What's weird?]] – Addressed by Mr Kogler as “of its own” and not quoted by me as “of its own”. I insist that these colleagues, these pilots – pilots are just the ones – only men – have been able to demonstrate flight hours as such. As you, Mr Kogler, have referred to it several times and have given particular attention to this aspect, I would like to stress once again: For information on the purpose of the flights, I have relied on the information provided by my predecessors. It is also not my job to check whether this was actually the case. But I assume that these flights, as declared by my predecessors to me, are also to be valued. I can assure you that I would not, but in principle my answer has been made to the best of knowledge and conscience. You also received this in writing in a minute's time from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14858	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. As The first is Mr Gaál. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14882	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I am here when you assume that private flights cannot be accepted at the expense of taxpayers. They are also strongly rejected and condemned by us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In any event, it should be noted that there have been these flights. The ministers concerned, as already mentioned by Minister Darabos, have confirmed that they were not private in any way, but are exclusively in the interests of the service, have once again said that there were no private flights, no weekend flights, but flights to military events – one has already been discussed in detail today – but there have also been flights due to urgent dates, including a holiday break, because there was a parliamentary meeting here. [[Calls for Greens]] Ladies and gentlemen, one thing has been said seriously: They took place within the framework of regular flight operations. Secondary is therefore whether there is a passenger in the back or not. There was no additional flight time, no additional costs were incurred. And I say we have to take note of that. I also assume that ministers Scheibner and Platter have informed colleagues about Darabos correctly.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14930	Next, Mr Amon. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e14952	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I am entirely in agreement with my colleague, Mr Gaál, because of course my group would expressly condemn it if someone were to misuse military equipment for private purposes at the expense of taxpayers. Of course, that would be condemnable. That is why I am also grateful to Mr Darabos for the extremely correct answer to this question, because it is also stated here in points 8 and 9 as follows – and this goes even further beyond that, of course, it was a matter of service-needs – and I quote from the question response to points 8 and 9: “The above-mentioned flight movements were carried out under the title of passenger transport” – so there is nothing of cover or so, but that was defined as passenger transport – “and occurred from the flight hours potential present in regular flight operations...” – because as you know, not only every device has to be moved, but also the pilots need appropriate flight hours so that they do not lose the license – “an additional flight hour effort was not to be recorded by the aforementioned flight movements.” [[Abg. Riepl: Darabos is always correct!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But also the sluggish seat!]] So the question is: What is it about the Greens today in this debate on the question – and what about it with Mr Darabos, the Federal Minister, who is not directly responsible for it? [[Abg. May. Kogler: We can't do anything for that! We regret that!]] Obviously, the Greens here are just one thing, namely, to distract you from your own problems, because it is already relatively dramatic – and you have so far remained guilty of any reaction: You have, with Mr Dr. Pilz, a Chairman of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, who, please, has been proved to have been sentenced by a court for actions relating to the investigative committee. [[Abg. Oillinger: Parliament has a chairman, not us!]] And it is actually incredible, Dr. Pilz, that you have the cutting not to withdraw immediately in this function! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is incredible, therefore, because you, Dr. Pilz, if you already rise up as a nation's discoverer and want to keep the mirror here, look yourself in the mirror from time to time and ask yourself the question of whether you will live up to the high moral demands you have made against people who have been invited to the committee. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where your pointing finger..., there we will never come, you're right!]] I know you don't care because you don't put in yourself these high moral demands that you make with others. But we also apply these standards to you – and that is why I urge you to step back! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You would like that!]] Finally, Madam President, I would ask you to have the minutes drawn up and to look again at what Mr Kogler has said. In fact, he meant that Mr. Platter had been penned “like a parrot” before his remarks on the Committee of Inquiry. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's how it was!]] – I mean, it used to be so that comparisons from the animal kingdom were not decent here. I think this is condemnable; in fact, we should have behind us the time when we have made comparisons from the animal kingdom. That was nothing with the inquiry. – Mr Dr. Pilz, I think you are on the list of speakers. I would be pleased if you would come to the speaker's desk and explain here today your resignation and then go to the next instance with your procedure – you may have to issue the mandate as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15080	Next, Mr Pilz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15101	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to note the strange political movements of the Austrian People's Party: Firstly, I should like to point out to Members of various political groups from Tyrol that they too must attend meetings of the National Council in which urgent questions take place. I am not aware of the case of a Member of Parliament who has used a means of transport for the Austrian Air Force. Apart from the fact that I do not consider this to be desirable for other reasons, it also does not comply with the principles of sparingness. The Austrian Federal Constitution, as it is known, requires members of the Austrian Federal Government not only to comply with the laws – something that since 2000, since the adoption of the Chancellorship by the Austrian People's Party, has obviously no more practical validity, or very limited practical validity – but also for the economical handling of resources. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's what the lawbreaker says!]] [[Abg. Jacob Auer: This is what the condemned one says.]] If a minister, plagued by the desire to get his march blown in Tyrol personally, has to fly to Innsbruck a day earlier, then the march paleness of the Minister is a political matter of his own party. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: (on the speaker) That is bad!]] The funds that are thrown out of the plane for this, however, are very much money that we have to be interested in. They've been wasted. - So, that's the point. The SPÖ has been practicing coalition discipline since yesterday. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: No, it's been longer!]] [[Call:This is not an unpleasant thing]] – That’s not a bad thing at all, it always depends on the purpose. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] The purpose makes the decisive difference! – If the wastes, the violations of laws, the violations of the constitutions of leading representatives of the Austrian People's Party are to be covert here with parliamentary majority, I do not think it wise if impotent and honourable representatives of the Social Democratic Party have to give up on this. I do not think it is a good idea that Klubobmann Schüssel, in a kind of “political godfather” of the SPÖ, is beginning to present the line of this group more and more often. This does not work well for the House, this does not do our control tasks well, it is not in the interests of the rule of law, democracy and clean military aviation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I would like to ask Mr Darabos to make a final statement: Do you personally see any justification for yourself and remember to use military jet aircraft from the Republic of Austria for your mission journeys? [[Call the SPÖ:... already said!]] Or do you explain to this House again and clearly that you will be able to use other, more civil and cheaper means of transport? [[Call the SPÖ: He already said...!]] So, and now something last, because it has been wanted, on the question of Eurofighter. – Yes, Mr Amon, you are right: At the end of the Eurofighter affair, not yet, but at the end, it will be about the question of withdrawals. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: No,... as committee chairman! That is incompatible: be condemned and...!]] It will be a question of whether a chancellor who, together with his Minister for Finance and Breakfast, decided to obtain the most unnecessary and expensive fighter aircraft in Europe, will finally have to suffer personal consequences in some form. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're condemned!]] It will be to answer whether a Minister of Interior, who was highly responsible for all this, will be approved in the long term of his political escape to the Ministry of Interior or whether he will be prevented from recruiting the Ministry of the Interior in the same way as at the time in the Ministry of Defence. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You're condemned!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: If you have a suit, step back! You're hurting the control order!]] Finally, it will also be possible to determine whether a minister of the economy, who has already done trade damage at the time, will receive further opportunities for similar damage to the Republic of Austria. I personally advise you not to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15290	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15312	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I try – to speak to my probably already known, or a little known, style according to – to completely sober and in the effort of avoiding unnecessary emotions or other excitements, and I am simply orienting myself to the fact that, as long as the There is no evidence that the correctness of the answers is to be assumed. Secondly, under the responsibility of the Minister-in-Office, it was answered that the above-mentioned flight movements were carried out under the heading ‘person transport’, from which flight hours were available in regular flight operations and an additional flight hours were not recorded by the above-mentioned flight movements. Point, off, end, you could say, with the following additions: It really does not need to be seriously debated here that private use of military equipment must be opposed. That can't be a question here. Second question: If there is a lie here, are private people presented as a service? – This is not from the correctness of the answers mentioned by the Minister... [[Abg. May. Kogler: This refers to the calendar of its predecessors!]] Well, I don't have it. You don't have it either. I assume that the statements have been properly reflected here. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] I admit that the place of residence with the destination of the flight, we say, is visually a certain exciting element, but the core is really if one wanted to discuss the cost problem behind it: What are the Sowieso costs of obtaining the necessary structure, should also be called, the necessary flight licences of the pilots? – And I would like to say many times: They have to fly for some hours. As well as civil pilots must have certain hours of flight, military pilots must also complete certain hours of flight. If, by flying to receive flight licences, certain personnel – and there you can now discuss in depth: which personnel, for which aircraft type, are age dependent and, and; but this is, in fact, a serious debate that is not feasible with this paper – do not create any additional burden, the effort is taken from the Sowieso potential and is just one that is flying, then I wish for the Republic that we have no other concerns in the defense of the country than just these. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15357	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner; five minutes' time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15379	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to move a little in a different direction than that so far, by defending here and saying that nothing will have been done. I am going a different direction, and here, Minister of State, I am speaking to you now: You are only in office for 100 days, but if you say so tax-free – and thus also a little bit that you don't quite think it's right – that a Federal Minister or other high-level military aircraft of your own ministry, the federal army, will use it to get to dates, events or tasks, and say you won't do that, then I think it's problematic. Mr Federal Minister, you will still be there – I hope not in the case of missions, as was the case with me in September 2001. You can see from the plan that follows the 11th. In September, five flight movements took place, i.e. by use. When it comes to conducting also and ensuring that the Austrian Federal Army fulfils the necessary tasks in use, I believe that you cannot fully estimate this. It is here pretended to be so simple that a minister's device... [[Abg. May. Kogler: Excuse me: Edelweiß-Concerte?]] I apologise for everything, but one gives the impression that a SAAB 105 with running engines are waiting and three Black Hawk helicopters. After that, you did not ask: Also with helicopters is flown, also the minister can fly, district chiefs, national leaders fly, deputies fly with this device, journalists fly. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Everything that has wings!]] [[Abg. Gaal: Everything that has wings flies!]] Among other things, the device also has a defence policy purpose: to bring the population and the political decision-makers to the attention of what the Austrian federal army can do. But in any case, it is not the case that all of this is ready and only waiting for a minister to use it, but that must be requested by the cabinet. That is, there is an adjutant, there is a cabinet chief, there is a relatively complicated procedure, and that is then also approved by the responsible in the plane division. [[Abg. May. Kogler: “Edelweiß-Department”!]] They always assume that this has been misstated. But it must have a military purpose, Mr Kogler! [[Abg. May. Kogler: There were two days!]] A military purpose must be specified, otherwise this flight cannot be approved at all. And – that has already been done –: These aren't additional flight hours. I can remember that we often requested this and that it was not possible because there was no machine available at these conditions – namely that there were pilots who needed flight hours and had finished them on this route – and then one could not use the plane. Mr Darabos, if you say that you will never benefit from this, I will tell you my experience. So you wouldn't, like I did on 23rd. August 2000 has made a SAAB 105 fly to Sweden for an air defense exercise – in the middle of the time of the penalty! – to whom the Minister of Defence of the EU Member State of Sweden invited me and in which Austrian pilots participated at the time – in a politically extremely sensitive phase! I have also seen the opportunity – also cheap for the Eurofighter Investigation Committee – to convince me in Laage, a German air force base – there you can only stop with such an aircraft – that the MiG 29 is really inappropriate for the Austrian federal army. So you wouldn't do that? - Because you say you won't use it. They would not try – as happened in September, October 2001 – to do so at the Air Force Bases, at the military sites after the 11th century. Also, on September 1st, has all the security measures been imposed, that one also signals that one is strengthening the Austrian army's backs? As a minister, you will be as well as Minister Platter and me: In part one has dates in the ministry in the 20-minute cycle and still tries to be as much as possible with the troops to signal them that the Minister is also out of full conviction, with full commitment behind the Austrian federal army. – If you see this differently, I’m sorry, but I wouldn’t be surprised either. But what really surprises me about the story... – Even in Klagenfurt, Mr. colleague, we have garrisons, soldiers and also an airfield. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] I hope you won't have a ban on entry in this area. By the way, an adjutant is usually always there, and private flights with an adjutant, so I don't know if this is so much the truth. But, Minister of State, what really surprises me about this whole story is: Even before the Members have received this answer, journalists have been given this information, as journalists tell me, from your environment, from your office. There is also the suspicion that this action would not at least be a bit of a coalition partner, or actually a colleague of government. – Not you personally, but perhaps people who are in your responsibilities! This is another example of the very, very problematic climate in a large coalition that has actually taken place in order to solve important problems in the country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15476	It has once again Mr. Federal Minister Mag. Darabos. The speaking time should not exceed 6 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15498	Don't worry, just one sentence: Mr Scheibner, you should not try to provoke me – we will still be able to hold the debate today, especially since you have also filed a motion of censure against me, but I say to you: I would not use the purposes you have stated in this form to fly with SAAB 105, for example at military celebrations on the National Day. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That is what I am telling you openly. That's a personal opinion of my own, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15531	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:38:51]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15552	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15577	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to use the budget debate to draw attention to a problem of the ethnic groups in Vienna. It is the Czech school, the Comensky School, which is mainly for the Czech, but also for the Slovak people, and which, since there is no minority school law for Vienna, is a private school; a school that is run by a private club and for which there is therefore only limited public funds. This school is very important for the preservation of these two ethnic groups. That is why I am very glad that a lot of money is being spent on the work of the school from the funding of the ethnic group funding. This means, on the other hand, that very many activities and associations of the Czech People's Group cannot be promoted or only to a very small extent, and I think this is very unfortunate. There will now also be a Slovak kindergarten group, and the Hungarian people will also use this school. That is to say, the base is being widened, and I think that is basically a very positive thing. I would wish, however, that it would be possible to bear the great financial burden of the association has to be reduced. I know that this is not so easy to budget, but I would like this school to be placed on a safe financial basis.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15616	The next Mr Gahr is speaking at a four-minute speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15637	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! The debate on the budget clearly shows that the interests are very different. I believe, however, that it must be possible in this state to control how we spend the money and what we must stand for towards taxpayers. As the Court of Auditors, I would be permitted to put the Court of Auditors at the centre of my speech. The 2007 budget for the Court of Auditors was increased from € 25.1 million to € 25.9 million. This has been done on the one hand in the case of personnel costs, on the other hand to a small extent in the case of actual expenditure. It must also be said that the Court of Auditors has been very economical in recent times. Mr President, thank you for that. In recent years, the number of planning posts has not been increased. There are currently 339 planning posts occupied, so 25 planning points are not occupied. It is only for the years 2008 and 2009 that it is planned to carry out an increase in the planning posts. The 2008 budget is estimated at € 27.1 million due to increased staffing. The Court of Auditors is currently facing a move, new spaces need to be adapted, reserves will be dissolved, and €4 million will be invested in order to be able to use current premises and infrastructure in the future. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The Court of Auditors, as a control body in the State, makes an indispensable contribution to ensuring that public funds are used in an appropriate, economical and efficient manner. Examples have already been mentioned. Mr Hauser has chosen the examination of the sub-inntal trasse, which we should discuss in the Court of Auditors. This is why I am setting up a committee in November. We write half a year after the election, but the committee chairman Kogler – who is not in the hall – does not find it worth calling up the Court of Auditors’ meetings. We only have relinquishing committees. I think it is up to a committee chairman not to put such parliamentary questions as today, but to ensure the Committee's permanent meeting – and not just his favorite pleasure in following the committee of inquiry. We have a lot of reports that should be discussed. In my opinion, it would be important to get into this debate as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Herb said that the Court of Auditors was suffering from the Eurofighter Committee. The Court of Auditors has made clear findings in the Eurofighter procurement. The Court of Auditors has been continuously and comprehensively controlled. He has, of course, taken note of the fact that there have been ongoing changes. The Court of Auditors cannot control individuals or firms in the procurement environment. The Court of Auditors has clearly stated that the Eurofighter has been recognised and confirmed as the best bidder. I do not want to defend irregularities, but one seems to be quite clear: From my point of view, this immense debate – many pre-conceptions have already taken place – does not necessarily bring the Court of Auditors to a positive light through this unfair and unfair discussion in the committee of inquiry. From my point of view, we should recognise the objective criteria and statements of the Court of Auditors and the audit reports and not always work with assumptions and assumptions in the Committee of Inquiry, thereby compromising the nation and people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15695	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Moser, spoke. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15716	Mr President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Dear Mrs. Volksanstalt! High house! I would like to thank you very much for today's speeches, in which the expertise and profound knowledge of the staff of the Court of Auditors have always been stressed or praised. You have stressed that the Court of Auditors is doing excellent work, and I would like to thank the staff of the Court of Auditors in this context in particular. With their high-quality achievements, their willingness to perform and their desire to reform, they have only made it possible for the balance sheet which is now in place, namely a very positive balance sheet. Another point has to be made with regard to the comments made by the honourable Member Herb. The honourable Member has outlined what the Court of Auditors can do about how far it can go. I am grateful for this clarification. It is indeed true that, according to the constitutional situation, we have to examine the entire state economy, about €93 billion, and all public servants fall into our audit area, but we are unable to examine individuals, private companies and the like. I am glad and proud that in the four tests on the Eurofighter, which have also been addressed today, all the statements that are contentive and relevant to the conduct are reflected in these test reports. Accordingly, I believe that an excellent expertise lies on the table from which one can discuss and the further developments that are necessary can be based on it. Another point, which is important to us and which I would like to point out, is that the Court of Auditors, with its audits, repeatedly offers reform approaches or proposes solutions, how to manage more efficiently, efficiently and economically. An example of this is the report on the additional fees, which shows that there are still rules in the public sector, which are no longer contemporary, which can only be explained historically and which also go in a direction that actual benefits are no longer recognised accordingly. And this is a report on refugee care, with which we have shown where there are potential for improvement, also with a view to a humanitarian process, and with a view to the speed of procedures, if they are necessary, being carried out as quickly as possible. be dealt with in order to provide a certain legal certainty for the person concerned. I would like to thank Mr Gahr for his statement, which has referred to the Court of Auditors as being very economically ceding or giving birth, and I would like to say: That's right. For example, the Court of Auditors experienced an increase of 4.3 percent in personnel costs from 1999 to 2006. If one compares this increase, for example, with that of the salary approaches for this period, i.e. with the federal salary level – and here with the salary approach V/2, that is the approach that is crucial for the additional fees – one sees that in this area the increase has amounted to more than 15 percent. Cost increase in the Court of Auditors by 4.3 percent – compared to the increase in salary, the salary level by 15 percent. In other words, in the field of the Court of Auditors, we are doing everything we can to help consolidate, in so far as this does not affect the task set out in the Constitution. On the subject of constitutional and administrative reform, I would like to point out that the Court of Auditors has already shown several times that something needs to be done in the various areas, particularly in the field of school administration, health, social, passenger transport. One example is the school area in which a national teacher is paid by the federal government, but on the other hand a comprehensive service supervision is not possible under the constitutional regulation. This shows that an administrative reform is at constitutional limits, and it is also apparent that both must be done together in order to achieve a modern performance of tasks. It can also be seen, however, that it is very necessary in this area that, by making a constitutional and administrative reform, it should not be ignored that a general economic perspective and a general view are absolutely necessary. If you look at the financial flows as they exist in Austria and the development of the financial compensation in this area, you will see that the tax association has expanded more and more in recent years. From 1995 to 2004 alone, the amount of financial compensation increased by 60 percent. 55 percent of expenditure is distributed among the local authorities. 210 000 transfers are only carried out at municipal level. This shows that transparent procedures and unclear responsibilities exist in this area, that expenditure, tasks and financing responsibilities often differ, and that a uniform view is required here as regards the interconnectedness of financial flows, in particular including control. However, this is also because, for example, Article 4 of the Federal Constitution lays down a single economic area, Article 13(2) of the Federal Constitution states that the territorial authorities have to strive for a balance of economies, and not least the Stability Pact and the consolidation packages are going in the direction of maintaining a general economic, general budgetary balance. So all the points that go towards strengthening financial control with a view to a uniformity and not in the direction that financial control is sacrificed to federalism in any way. Rather, it should be possible to examine communities that are birth-related as well as those of the Court of Auditors. At present, the situation is such that we have 2 359 municipalities, of which 1 percent – 24 municipalities – are audited by the Court of Auditors. I believe that it is time to compare the public sector with the private sector to the fact that the communities in question, for example from a budget of € 10 million, including external financial control, are subject to control by the Court of Auditors. That would be 9 percent of the Austrian municipalities, i.e. about 220 municipalities. However, about 56 percent of the community's volume of birth would be covered by audit competence – that is, a way to go, so that in the future the financial compensation mass can in fact be distributed fairly, coherently and transparently. I am trying to strengthen efforts in this direction, and at the same time to tackle the efforts to close control gaps as such, because, finally, I can only point out that, if the relevant competences are provided, you have the opportunity to actually exercise the control that comes to you under the Constitution. Do not do it, lose You will have to do this control, you will find it difficult to carry out your tasks optimally in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15795	The next speaker was Mr Graf. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e15817	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Mrs. President of the People's Procuratorate! It is actually a coincidence that I am speaking right now, where you have just referred to Parliament's control rights, since this will be an essential part of my speech. We, as parliamentarians, – we also had a debate on a urgent question yesterday – have to see that the rights of parliamentarians, that is, the self-understanding of parliamentarians, if one wants to do so, often hit the limits of the official understanding of execution or rubble at them so to speak. The right of control to Parliament on the one hand by the Court of Auditors and, on the other hand, by the public prosecutor's assistant body – I do not mean that – but also by the setting up of committees of inquiry, on the one hand, and by the law of the Members, on the other, is gradually undermined. The Court of Auditors and the People's Procuratorate have some of the problems that have been dealt with in recent years. They are much greater than the parliamentarians with their rights, because they have a great deal behind the struggle, where and what they are allowed to examine. On the other hand, we still stand in the middle of it, if I may say so. They know where the shortcomings lie and can therefore also advise us and propose appropriate legislative initiatives that we can then take up. You've already listed some areas. They know that if an authority or officials fail to provide the so-called official assistance, they will have the right to be provided with files, to be able to understand them, and to comply with similar, non-conformity, abuse of office, if they are refused to do so without a legal reason. This is still controversial with us, because if a committee of inquiry wants to have filed, there are different opinions on this. I am still quite impressed by the statement made yesterday by Molterer, Vice Chancellor, who meant that we already have to justify why we want these files, otherwise their submission will be refused. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Of course! That's the same thing at court!]] I put forward a proposal for a solution yesterday, saying that it would have to be seen as much as when a statement was taken by a person who had to make us believe in the reason for the statement. If it appeals to any secret that is recognized, the Committee will decide whether or not to follow this credulatory statement. – You know it’s in the Rules of Procedure! Similarly, I see this in the file transmission. Yesterday, I have shown examples – Mr President of the Court of Auditors, this has been abstained from you – what it looks like if files are finally made available to us reluctantly after about four months: The text is crossed from the first to the last page, including the greeting formula. [[The speaker shows several pages of a document on which the text is completely blackened.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You can't do that! It's confidential!]] These files, Mrs Colleague, are confidential, you are perfectly right. Now I'm deliberately breaking trust. Do you tell me what secret I'm betraying with that? Help me get to the jumps! [[Ironic cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] That's it! It is possible to make mistakes when personal data and similar data are available, but the procedure we want to examine needs to be clear. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have other pages too!]] Otherwise this is a farce, a hollow right! [[Abg. Strache: Actually, the Minister of Finance would have to express his distrust!]] If the Minister, Mr Vice-Chancellor, says that he trusts his officials that they are working properly, then I am willing to trust them as well. [[Call the ÖVP: Of course!]] But why does he not personally as a representative and political responsible party subscribe to the declaration of completeness we have required from all authorities, namely that we are confirmed that the files have been transmitted in full? Since I can praise the President of the Court of Auditors, he has received the same declaration of completeness for his place of business and has signed it as President of the Court of Auditors. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The People's Procuratorate was also invited, and the Volksanwälte signed it as a Volksanwälte. Financial market supervision has also signed it as the Financial Market Supervisory Authority, namely its representatives. They have also been signed by the Austrian National Bank. Only with the three ministries – you can't do that anymore, but no matter what – namely at the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, you have suggested officials – not even section heads! – who have made this declaration of completeness. [[the speaker spreads three fingers]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: There's no one suggested!]] This is also a matter of budgetary resources. We also need to budget the Supreme Institutions in connection with the Committee of Inquiry, and such friction losses, which are ultimately caused, cost money. This will be confirmed by the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors and the Public Prosecutor's Office. If you have to ask for it permanently and have to look back and ask for it again, and if the documents do not come at the required time, for which we have decided, that it should happen immediately, then the money will cost. After five months of sending an act that looks like it, it is not immediate, Mrs Colleague. [[Keeping an entirely blackened side of a document in height]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: This act concerns banking secrecy!]] There we have to put parliamentarians on our back legs. We must not let that happen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I and my group would like to continue to trust the officials, but we have attached a condition to this: that the Minister himself is now "getting into the can" as you say so beautifully... [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you want to tip the bank secret?]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Do you want to tip the bank secret?]] Do not be angry with me if even “with kind greetings” is blackened out – that is what you have blackened out – then I ask you: [[Displaying a completely blackened side of a document]] What's this bank secret? [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's ridiculous! It is ridiculous to take the removal from the first line to the last line, because the procedure is no longer clear. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: You know exactly what it is about!]] Then, Mr Ikrath, you have to make it credible in a letter accompanying you, why the complete blackness was necessary. [[Abg. May. Ikrath: It's about people's trust in our state!]] Then we need to be confirmed by the statement of credulity, which is why it was necessary to blacken the act completely, by saying: We have had to tighten the entire act, because there is banking data relevant here, with signature and seal, so that we know the officials who ultimately agree with it with his word. Then I believe it. But if not! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Let us change the Rules of Procedure exactly in this direction! We can change the Rules of Procedure!]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, we are tabling the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] We're not asking for anything else. If the Minister asks the honourable Member to trust his officials that everything goes right, I ask the Minister to make a declaration of completeness on behalf of his officials and to trust them – just as the President of the Court of Auditors does for his officials and how the public prosecutors do it for their officials and so on and so on. I also ask the Minister to do the same, and then we are a step further. If the Minister of Finance is not prepared to make such a statement, he will not trust his officials. But then we have little incentive to trust his officials. This is a allowed turnaround, because we – I have already done this yesterday – have repeatedly come up with the fact that we have been denied files, that files have inevitably been blackened, which is why we know, because they were then presented to us in the original and have shown that there has been no reason at all to abstain from them, which has also been confirmed to us, and because we – statements to read in the Minutes! – have come to know from employees of the Oesterreichische National Bank and the Financial Markets Authority – they have said this under the duty of truth – that they have agreed not to provide us with files consciously, without giving any reason. That's not how it is! Members must start to fight their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16067	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Dr Graf, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16169	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16190	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Dear Members of the People's Procuratorate! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! I am now trying to return to the women's budget debate, which has already taken place in part today, in different quality. I felt it very “adventureful” and was also very ashamed of the fact that a colleague is making himself here – he is now sitting up – and, first, he does not know what he is talking about – that was clear – and secondly, what he says he is also evading. – You should be ashamed and should not belong to this House anymore! I am ashamed that you are a colleague of mine! I'll tell you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Unheard!]] This can be turned and turned as you would like, and there may be ideological differences here – that is also good that there are ideological differences, Mr. Colleague Strache... [[fierce calls to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Street: Luckily the voters decide! Fortunately, there is no dictatorship in the concept of democracy!]] Democracy's understanding of democracy, if someone here is softening up women's nonsense, knowingly, then he doesn't belong here! Then this is an uplifting of all women in this country! I'll tell you! [[Abg. Strache: You will not decide that, but the voters will decide!]] And you're doing that, right now. Shame! [[Abg. Strache: You would lock up dissidents!]] [[Further intense calls to the FPÖ.]] Why is there such a great excitement at the FPÖ? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Bitch.]] Because you're ideologically on the ground as far as this is concerned! I'll tell you! – Report [[Abg. Strache: It's impossible to do what you're giving here for the best!]] You speak, I am speaking now!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16299	One moment, Mrs. Colleague! – Ladies and gentlemen, I may ask you to cool down the emotions again! President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16331	Are you all right, Mr President? - Okay. I return to the fact that, from the point of view of the women's budget, the budget negotiations were really successful: Since 2000, plus 35 percent. This is the highest increase in seven years. We have a total of €2.1 million more for the women's section, which does not mean that this is all there is for women in this country. It has already been said by the Minister for Women that this is, of course, only part of what she will do for women in this country, that she will also be involved in other areas with her competence in the Federal Chancellery, that is clear. I would like to say thank you very much to all the officials in the Ministry of Women – an official, I believe, we have – who are doing their work and who are working so well in the interests of women. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to add a few words: 13 per cent more for funding, €450 per year, €600 000 in the next year's budget, 67 per cent more for expenditure, i.e. plus € 1.1 million in figures, primarily for the expansion of violence protection, for the expansion of intervention agencies. This is, I believe, a really important step because unfortunately demand in this area has grown and needs have grown. But budgetary policy must also have a gender aspect. I would also like to highlight the policy of the Minister of Finance here. In the Committee on Budgets, for example: How are you going to interfere and how will you take and carry out gender budgeting seriously?, said that's the matter of the ministries, that's nothing to him. I am of the opinion – that should be his opinion too! – this must be a top-down strategy so that women can also move forward. The Minister for Women has long made this a matter for her. It would be good if the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance were to do so, because women need a fair share in the budget. It is not about how the funds are distributed, but it is primarily about whom they benefit and how this affects. I have thus reached the main concerns of social democracy and the Minister of Women in this area, namely poverty prevention and poverty reduction. Labour market policy and violence are among the most important measures to enable women to live independently. And if women have children, then the issue of “unity” is not only one for women, but above all one for men. I would very much urge the Minister of Family not only to say – and that for weeks now – that she is making a summit, But also really to invite to go a little further in the sense of young families. In conclusion: I am very satisfied with this budget and think that this is a first good step towards a change in the spirit of women in this country. And I think the next budget will make it even better for women.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16392	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16413	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! First of all, I would like to make a comment on the previous speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the Freedom Party has always advocated freedom of expression and speech, and we do not think of being restricted by a Member in this right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I didn't say!]] We liberals are – and I would like to give you a little further help in history – in the course of the bourgeois revolution in 1848 – oh yes, I do, however, because you obviously have a deficit there – already advocated freedom of expression and speech. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I won't let you teach me!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] These were our predecessors at the time, Mr Colleague, and we are proud of these predecessors. These are the ideological roots to which we like to stand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now on the real issue, ladies and gentlemen: After the Second World War, in the context of the deportations and especially after the Potsdam Conference, it came to the tens of thousands of murders and crimes against humanity. At the time, the victims were the Sudeten Germans, the Germans, the Donauschwaben, the Gottscheers, the Banats Schwaben, the Seven-Citizens of Saxony. In the Second Republic, the sales associations have done a lot for these people, for their integration into the new home country. They have organized help, and they have also helped find a place to live. This has always been praised and honoured by Austrian politicians of all couleurs. Even the parliamentary parties have their own sales spokesperson. We liberals now want to draw a signal with the following requests and, by this gesture, also honor the work of the disfellowshipped associations, because we do not believe that there are sufficient Sunday speeches. I therefore make the following two requests that must be made in accordance with business regulations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Quoted print version removed]] To this end, a new budget item is to be introduced, namely 1/1051, ‘Vertriebenenförderung’, and 1/1016, section 43, ‘Vertriebenverbanden’, ‘Vertriebenverbande; Promotions’. The second request is: Amendment The National Council wants to decide: 1. In Annex I to the Government template referred to in the Title, the following estimates shall be amended as follows: 2. [[Table removed]] The amount of change due to the amendment shall also be taken into account in the sum amounts set out in Annexes I, Ia, Ib and Ic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e16741	The two amendments tabled by Mr Kurzmann's colleague, Dr Graf, Dr Kurzmann and other Members, have been properly tabled and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17169	The next speaker is Mr Zweytick. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17191	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I'm coming back to a part that lets us look into the future. In one year, we will host the largest event ever held in Austria, the EURO 2008, from 7th to 29th. ==References====External links== In these four weeks Up to 10 billion people will watch the football games from Austria and Switzerland worldwide. At the beginning, I would like to mention a few facts from an economic point of view. The 2008 European Championship will bring value added in the order of over €300 million and a purchasing power effect of approximately € 260 million. In addition, this major event will create more than 5,000 additional jobs in Austria, half of which will remain sustainable. Due to the direct impact of EURO 2008 alone, an increase in gross domestic product – i.e. GDP – is expected to be 0.15 percent in 2008. The total cost of the federal government will be around 133 million €. This includes the construction of the sustainable stadium infrastructure, transport and combination ticket systems, guidance systems, tourism advertising, sustainability, cultural and art projects and the internal Austrian preparation of the event. Within the framework of EURO 2008, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour will greatly strengthen the advertising of tourism through Austria's advertising. Around the globe, ÖW will launch 250 marketing activities to make Austrian enthusiasts from football enthusiasts. At the operational level, the ÖW is constantly coordinating its activities with the countries. The location marketing also has priority over the Austrian Business Agency. Before and during the 2008 European Championship, we will put the economic location of Austria in particular into the spotlight. The increased attention is used to increase the interest of foreign investors in Austria. The clear advantages of Austria as an economic location are communicated. Of the 31 games between 7 and 29. ==References====External links==* Official website About 1 005,000 cards are sold; about 550 000 visitors to the stadium are expected in Austria. A multiple of these are expected in the official fan zones, so-called fan miles, in the venues and at public-viewing events organized throughout the country. An example is the “fan-mile” at the location of Parliament here at the ring, down to the town hall and to the castle theatre. If the stadium is full of 50,000 people, it will not only be on the last day of the game – on June 29, 2008, when the final will rise – but also before 100 000 people will also populate these “fan miles”. These people need to be welcomed, but they will of course also follow the exciting football games over large screens. That's a big challenge. After the forecast economic success for Austria, only hope remains that the sportsman will not fall too much. This leads to the path to the sporty, and the importance of Austrian football must also be guided by the level of EURO 2008. A lot of work is still needed for this. As a result, the Bundesliga would have to improve the framework conditions. To this end, funds from the budget, from which Lotto-Toto-General Sport Promotion to the Bundesligavereine, should be made up of a significant sum, but improvements should also be made to the granting of these funds. I would have two proposals: First of all, all T-Mobile and Red-Zac companies would have to conduct junior academies; and second, players should be restricted to Austrian citizens, except for a maximum of three non-Austrians. These points could only be carried out on a voluntary basis; however, those associations that do not adhere to them fall around the lotto toto funds. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] This is a proposal that should be discussed. But this would ensure that young Austrian talents get a higher level field of activity, and the reputation of the Austrian club football and the Austrian national team would be improved by a lot. It can't be that in the current FIFA ranking list Austria at 75. It's a place! Countries and nations such as Burkina Faso, Cuba or Oman and many others are in front of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to thank our State Secretary, Reinhold Lopatka, for his efforts. Just this morning I again had a school class from the constituency here, and there is also the term football and sports. That is why I welcome the initiative of State Secretary Lopatka to anchor movement and sport as a recognised pillar in the health system – preventive measures that lead to the improvement of the health sector! 1 € invested in movement and sport, save 3 € in health costs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr President, it is very important to introduce this pillar, movement and sport at all compulsory schools. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17266	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17287	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to return to the Women chapter. We have already heard in the course of the discussion that the women's budget has been increased by 35 percent and that our Federal Minister will not only be involved in this area, but everywhere. That's good. In addition to measures to combat violence in the family, it is also crucial to combat poverty. Another focus, which the Federal Minister, together with the members of the Federal Government and the social partners, has set itself, is the question of limiting and merging income differences. Once again, I can say that we are on a good path in the context of the social partners' negotiations in order to really achieve a minimum wage and salary of € 1,000. That's important, that's necessary! This will bring a great boost to women, particularly in the lower areas which are poorly organized. What is also very important and necessary is the fact that those women who have part-time employment and do multi-hour work will also receive a corresponding multi-hour supplement. This is also an important contribution to reducing income differences. On the one hand, what is also important and crucial to continue on this very difficult route is that the AMS introduces even more qualification measures to facilitate women's entry into the profession after a baby break. We know: The longer such baby breaks take, the more difficult it is first of all to re-enter, and the stronger this baby break also has a negative impact on income differences. It is certainly of great necessity that child care benefits will be flexibilised – this is a welcome fact in the management of child care. In this context, it is important to ensure that the Community's policies are based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women and that they are based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. In this context, of course, it is also worth mentioning that we all need to make sure that women are more found in atypical professions. In this area, one will certainly look at the Blum-Bonus promotion more precisely in terms of whether this is useful and useful for women and whether it really goes in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a good budget, we have many important joint projects in the Government Agreement, and we have an excellent minister. That is, we are on the right track in the sense of the women of Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17339	Next, Mr Praßl. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17360	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! With a great commitment to sport, this Federal Government is preparing itself with its double budget for great events in the field of sport. A clear signal is placed here in the field of disability sports, in the field of top-level sports, in the field of health sports, but also in the field of wide-ranging sports. 2008 will be a major event for Austria and Switzerland. The European Championship brings these two countries to the centre of both the European Union and the world. This is a clear signal that a small country can position itself here and that this can also be well justified accordingly. However, we also have other commitments to make with this European Championship, for example in the field of safety, for example in the field of transport, in the field of marketing. Finally, I believe that we have done a great deal of preliminary work here with the project group “Austria at the Ball”. I would like to thank our Styrian Secretary of State Reinhold Lopatka for his great initiative, but also for his great achievement in preparing this project in 2008! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you also have to add one: If you come from a rural region, you can enjoy it with many, many hundreds of clubs – if you are at the sports court, at tennis clubs, gym clubs or other clubs – as young work is promoted in the small area and as a result the young work is also lived and experienced. However, I would also like to thank the many officials who make their great commitment to these associations free of charge week after week, Sunday for Sunday. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to thank the many mayors who are also aware of this and who are committed to supporting and maintaining a sports club in their community. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Finally, I would like to thank our national team very much. May she prepare well for the next year! I wish her all the best and an excellent place in this context.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17423	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17445	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! A hugely important point, which is also reflected in the 2007 and 2008 budget, is the support and promotion of club sport. As the chairman of the largest sports club in Austria, SK VOEST, I know what I am talking about here, and as such I am also pleased that the Federal Sports Organisation declared dog sports a recognized sport in Austria in November last year. This is a sport that has more than 50,000 people in this country who are honest and very committed, and which also produces international top performances in addition to growing broadband. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is tragic that dog sports are already a victim of fraud and that this sport has been imposed a huge burden. I suppose you all know the competition agencies that are now shooting mushrooms from the ground everywhere in Austria. In many of them also dog sports bets, namely bets on dog races, which have nothing to do with dog sports on and on. What does this fraud look like? – Quite simply, there are races that are seven, eight or even nine years old, whose output is long known and where the profit rate has been manipulated. For example, the Landeskriminalamt Niederösterreich has qualified this as an organized fraud. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that in the sense of sport – for we are harming a sport here – we must stop this fraud. He hurts the sport, he hurts the reputation, and he harms the athletes, who may, at last, even withdraw from their commitment. Because dog races have nothing to do with dog sports! There is a strong condemnation of fraud in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the next few years, we have great plans, and I do not mean just the European Championships. With this budget, I am sure that we can also achieve our objectives. But at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we must ensure that frauders, who do enormous damage to both sport and consumers, are rigorously stopped by us in the sense of honest sports.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17488	The next speaker is Mr Einwallner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17509	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! In conclusion, this budget for sport is a success. Since this significant peak of the sports billion – in Schilling – has now been exceeded with €78.1 million, this is a success, and a successful path will continue here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to highlight several youth programmes that are already under way, but also some that are planned. In the field of football, this is the 2008 challenge. I would like to point out that young people have been promoted here and we are now benefiting from this promotion in so far as, for example, Styrian top athletes such as Christoph Leitgeb or Jürgen Saumel Our hopemakers in the national team are and these players have benefited significantly from this promotion of young people, this challenge. But there is also another project. Mr Kickl, in your speech, you have muttered that everything goes only to football, but that is not true. I would be better informed and notice that the “Top Sport Austria” programme is also planned! There are more than €8 million planned for young sportsmen, but also top sportsmen, you would say from marginal sports groups and sports, I say, to be promoted from essential summer sports with this programme. Overshadowed You're always saying there's not just a football investment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Reinhold Lopatka has been mentioned many times; he is also known as a marathon runner, and therefore he has also made sure that a great project will be put on foot in this area of summer sports, and you will see a lot of young work will be done and done. I am the last speaker from our group on the issue of the Supreme Institutions, and I would also like to take the opportunity to express my pleasure at the fact that the democratic package is to be adopted in the Council of Ministers in the near future, and I call on the SPÖ not only to stand in the way of the government, but also in the parliamentary negotiations to rise from the brake and with us to contribute a great democratic package for the youth of this country for more participation in the youth of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17567	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17588	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I will come back to the topic of women again. Women's affairs are worth more. This is reflected in the content of the debate and in the higher budget for women. Parliament as a People's and thus women's representation has done a good job with this budget, in order to create a good legal framework for women's promotion. With Doris Buresist women's funding in the budget again became an important topic. The Minister is also important to include women's problems in rural areas actively and to take account of them accordingly. I am pleased that the Minister will visit the KoKon Women's Advisory Office in Altenmarkt in the Salzburger Pongau in the summer. It is mainly about discussing a longer-term security of this important project. This morning, she already spoke of an increase in the budget of the current women's and girls' services offices, which we hope will be very strong. I simply see such women's projects as ways of action that support and strengthen women's self-determination and independence. My request for women in my constituency would be, in the structurally weak areas, particularly to promote and not neglect the facilities that benefit women. The main issue is that women are at the forefront of women's concerns across party borders. It is important to create awareness of the strength and potential in women: More women than men make Matura, a majority of students are students, a large number of women complete vocational training, and yet women experience an ever-increasing nod in their independence. It is precisely at this point that networks of women, especially in rural areas, make a very important contribution together with the many women's services, emergency calls, intervention agencies and women's homes, for which the guarantee of their support has already been given for 2007. Ladies and gentlemen! Awareness of this issue has regained its weight in Austria with this government and the Ministry of Women. This has given rise to the hope that, in addition to the urban area, rural areas will be attractive to women. In order to create the legal framework and provide a budget that is also female-fit, our task here in Parliament is to create the legal framework. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17636	Mrs Ablinger has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17658	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Now, at the end of such a debate, we can only address, as it were, debates throughout the morning, and I would like to take up some of the points: Mrs Delegate Rauch-Kallat and Mrs Deputies Lentsch, in appreciation of the fact that the women's budget has now been increased by 35 percent, because the old government has been known to have reduced the women's budget, said that this was, so to speak, a concession of the Minister of Finance. –With a commitment, the decision on the budget is a democratic decision, a political decision and not a good will act, for Goodwill acts have always been graves of committed women’s policy. I would have liked to say this once before that, so to speak, there is no gratitude to the Minister for Finance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are trying to return to an active women's policy after seven years, and Mrs Lunacek has criticised the fact that many things have not yet succeeded. Yes, of course! In this area you can't cheer everywhere, no question. You should not rejoice where there is no reason to rejoice. We still lack money, we need more money, and much has to go faster than it is happening at the moment, but politics for more sexual justice is always a laborious struggle. Above all, let's say, in a male-dominated culture it's always a tough ringing, it's always difficult, it's always tiresome. The essential thing is whether the direction is right, whether it is going towards more gender equality, and such a development has at least begun with this budget. One point I would also like to address in this context is the increase in the budgets of the intervention agencies, the centres of protection for violence, which I am particularly pleased to see as the chairman of the Centre for the Protection of Violence in Upper Austria, and I am not aware of the criticism of Mr Zwerschitz. She says or I understood her statements in such a way that it is incomprehensible that the Minister for Women should pay for it. That is why I would like to stress: Women's Minister Dohnal and Women's Minister Prammer always have special It is important that they are more paid because, so to speak, they are also concerned with the question of co-design, and it was therefore quite essential for them to pay. I am incomprehensible in criticism of this, and I have also been incomprehensible that she has said that the Minister of the Interior is paying the male part and the Minister of Women the female part. So, for example, the intervention agencies do not do any culprit work, and it is also true that they do not do it. So this criticism is unclear to me. At the end and on current occasion: I would ask for an Enlightenment, Mrs Frauenminister, for you are right! – for preventative agents on a health certificate expressing hormone spirals. The woman's family minister has distributed condoms in schools. That was probably also a sign of something to do, and I read in the paper a criticism by Mrs Kdolsky of you. It's unclear to me! Why? – It is a common matter: Preventants should not be a matter of income. Maybe you can still tell me. In any case, the criticism was incomprehensible to me. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17706	The next speaker is Mr Christ. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17727	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State and Foreign Affairs! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Sports is known to be a significant cross-sectional matter in our society, and this fact is also fair to the sports budget of this Federal Government. Our Minister of Sport, Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer, stands as well as the State Secretary Reinhold Lopatka for a hundred percent of sport, movement, promotion, professionalization and financing of sports. That's good, that's important and, above all, right. A special event and also a special challenge is the 2008 European Football Championship. With great commitment, we work together with our Swiss friends on this project, but we also stand in the light of the world's public for several weeks in the light of our organizational talent, power, economic skill and hospitality in our country. Around € 72 million is spent on the construction and construction of the four stages. In this context, I think it is particularly important to think very intensively even today about the meaningful further use and reuse of these very expensive stages beyond the EURO. Without regard to the security costs, the total cost of the federal government is around € 136 million. I think this is very well-invested tax money, and the opportunities for correspondingly pleasing return flows are more than given. Other sports, ladies and gentlemen, are also supported by infrastructure investment. This begins with the curling in Kitzbühel and goes to the climbing center in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by addressing the sustainable safeguarding of the special sport promotion. In fact, we agree on the fact that the increase in disbursed funds to around €60 million is very encouraging and very important, but not in the form of the current empowerment solution. For the future beyond this biennial budget, it would be very important, in our opinion, for the lower limit of €40 million laid down in the law to the currently disbursed amounts, to close to 60 million. to raise, and this especially to prevent any changes in the field of gambling monopoly law. I therefore invite the political groups to work together, particularly in the Ministry of Finance. Sport in Austria needs financing security, which we owe to our umbrella and professional associations, and above all to the many, many sportsmen and officials.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17773	Next, Mr Magistrate. Johann Maierzu word. Voluntary time limit: also 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17829	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In most cases, sport is here in the High House and also between the groups of consensual matter, regardless of whether it concerns the budget, the federal sport promotion or also the content areas, such as the anti-doping campaign. I would just like to mention this for current reasons. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, today six athletes were detained in Beijing by the International Olympic Committee for Olympic Games for life, because – and I emphasize this – they have been violated by IOC rules. Further sanctions by the FIS Disciplinary Commission are still possible. I therefore say this with all the clarity, because the Austrian Federal Government is of course also spending some money on the Austrian Anti-Doping Committee in the budget, for the anti-doping campaign – I am myself a member of the Board of Directors of the Austrian Anti-Doping Committee – and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There will be a lively discussion on the issue of doping events in Turin, and I would like to remind you of the events because the facts have already been forgotten: The then Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel has expressed himself very clearly. I support his statements. The then Federal Chancellor Schüssel and current clubman of the ÖVP meant: Zero tolerance towards those who do, and who dope, fly! – This is a clear position, and the Austrian Parliament should also support the IOC on this issue and continue to maintain these demands. The facts are clear: Needles, blood bags, hemoglobin preparations were found in Turin. Carabinieri carried out a warrant. All of this was triggered by an out-of-competition check, in which well-known Austrian athletes were not found, and there was no report to the Austrian Olympic Committee. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A credible anti-doping policy is absolutely necessary for the application of Salzburg as well as for any international application. The House will soon have to decide on the UNESCO Convention. We will accept you unanimously, as I suppose, but there will also be a change in the anti-doping provisions in the Federal Sports Promotion Act. That is also necessary. And this, Hohes Haus, supports the application of Salzburg for 2014. I would ask you to support us with all possible means and means. ==References====External links== It will be held in Guatemala on July 2, then Salzburg will win. If there is a decision according to the criteria of money, then someone else may win. We support Salzburg! Salzburg has submitted the best application for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17883	The next speaker is Mr Fazekas. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17904	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Estimated representatives of the Federal Government! Mrs. State Secretary! Representative of the People's Procuratorate! High house! First of all, I would like to thank Mr Praßl, who has also put the mayor into play a little, which also makes a very important contribution to the fact that sports in Austria have a very special importance. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Hornek.]] Of course, I'm allowed to do a little self-advertising. As a representative of the city of Schwechat, I can point out that the kindergarten project, which is now being introduced throughout Austria, namely “Kindergarten and Sport”, has its origin in the city of Schwechat and that, I hope, we will have the most famous European table tennis team in ten days with us, in our federal country and in Austria. I'm grateful for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you. I am grateful for that, and this is also an expression of the fact that you can be satisfied with this budget, because it shows that sports in Austria has a very special importance. That is why I say this with a little emphasis, because one could say again and again that it could be more. – We have heard this several times in the subcommittee budget meetings; also of the opposition parties who sometimes meant: That's really very good, but it could be more! It is much more important, however, to point out that sport is located everywhere and that the positive awareness of sports must be manifest in all areas. Mr Kickl, you have started here trying to discredit this policy by tensioning the arch by a sports state secretary from the orange area to a black State Secretary and now to the Federal Chancellor and saying that it has not been worked in your sense. I can only point out that especially now, German Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer – and we also work very well and excellently with State Secretary Lopatka – is very much being done in the areas of childcare, schools, health and leisure. I welcome this and thank you very much. For me, a very important issue is the EURO. It has been mentioned several times. I only point out that fan support projects are essential to prevent Randale from being dissatisfied with dissatisfied. It is very important for us that this essential prevention work is done. It's supposed to be a sports festival, and the executive won't be able to solve everything. It must simply be ensured that there is work in the preventive area. Funds have been made available for this purpose. I particularly welcome the anti-racism campaign, which will be carried out jointly within the UEFA framework, also in our country. And in this context I have a very special desire, and I address this message to the address of the clubman of the BZÖ – he is unfortunately not here – because he is an enthusiastic football player: Perhaps the BZÖ can also tear itself to support this anti-racism campaign most strongly in the sense of sport, which is interconnected and peace-making. And I also ask the FPÖ to cooperate here, even if the poster series in the election campaign may have something else suspected. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17965	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e17986	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Ministers! State Secretary! Mr Brosz, I am actually always convinced of your expertise in your speeches. Today, you have disappointed me and led me back to a time when we had with the Minister of Sports and Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer someone who has gone out here permanently on the roof associations, and this with the very good background that one wanted to destroy the roof associations in the present form and build one himself. I don't think that's likely in your case, but I had to tell you when I'm quite honest. My colleague Schasching will then inform you about this. We would like to invite you to take a look at the structure of the umbrella associations, because then you would see how many people do daily work with the young people free of charge and indifference. And if the President of the Court of Auditors were still there today, you would see that the umbrella associations among the associations have the narrowest administration at all in Austria and the administrative tangents represent a percentage of 3 to 3.6 percent. So, you don't have to think about it anymore. If you would also look at what we get and what we calculate and with what effort we put into these bills today – with offers, recalculation, re-certification, final consumers – then you would, I must honestly say, no longer practice this criticism here. If the umbrella organisations – and there are also quite new considerations to devote themselves to youth sports – now also declare themselves ready to enter schools, then we, Mr. Federal Chancellor, will also want to call on your resort at least to try out school, because we see that the ageing of teachers is going to be so strong in popular schools. I have seven grandchildren, and their teachers are all much older than I am. And I know my sporting commitment that I could still do in gymnastics, not running. And that's where I have to say honestly: In the interests of the health of our children, we will need to remedy this by means of professional education! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18016	The next item is Mr Dr. A. Klepsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18038	Mr President. High house! Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! First of all, allow me to comment on a subject that has dealt with us surprisingly little today, namely the National Fund. It is a detail from the budget, but it is a detail that is important for the politics we want and make in Austria. Let me point out that we have 4 million each available for this purpose in 2007 and 2008. In 2007, 4 million in the budget, 2 million in the budget in 2008 and 2 million in the allocation. I think this means that we will find the way out. On this occasion, however, I would also like to point out and ask you, also by the other political groups, to consider that we are not leaving the National Fund at the end of 2008 or at the beginning of 2009, but that we are considering maintaining the National Fund as a permanent institution, because I think we can continue to need an instrument of this kind. For this I would like to have advertised briefly. Secondly, on the subject on which I originally wanted to speak, let me say a word on the issue of equal treatment. I have allowed myself today because I have already predicted that I will not be able to refer this subject to the fullest extent possible here, to record my speech in writing and to give it in a way. I think that in the case of as long sequences of speakers as we have had the budget today, this would be a way of saving time at all, because listening to 50, 60 speakers on the same subject does not make anyone any more. Nevertheless, let me say the following: I think we should all make a contribution to the fact that Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister for Women's Affairs, has the opportunity to point out and become effective that equal treatment is a task of the boss. This is a chief task that everyone, whether ministers or private entrepreneurs, must carry out if it is to ensure that fair conditions exist in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is not an annoying side-to-side task, it is not, so to speak, a secondary obligation where any officials or officials or people who point out that equal treatment, equality of women is still not achieved, may also say so, but it is a task that the boss himself has to carry out. And only when this is so perceived does a culture that contributes to the creation of equal treatment at last. – This will be very soon. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me address one more word to those speakers from the ÖVP – of course, there are hardly any there – who have tried today to vote on the 1st election. ==References====External links== [[Abg. Steibl: No, for so naïve you don't have to think us!]] Dear friends of the ÖVP! The 2006 elections are over, and today's efforts to re-enact the period between 2000 and 2006 in order to achieve that perhaps retrospective bowl will win again are pointless. I don't think that's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18092	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18114	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! Mrs. Volksanwaltin! Appreciated ladies and Lord of the House! Mr Haubner has expressed himself here today in a way that is precisely challenging to respond to it. Since as a Social Democratic I do not want to interfere in the election campaign of the Austrian Sports Union, I have received every comment here. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard several times how well Mr. State Secretary Lopatka is on the road in sports evenings. I can't argue, I'm just saying: Mr. Federal Chancellor, you've got a good line on this Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard today – Mr Maier said this – that six Austrian athletes were punished for doping crimes, excluded from the Olympic Games for life. But this is not an effect that came about suddenly, but it also has a history. It was also not Turin's first occasion, there was an Olympic in North America before, in which Austrian athletes left blood bags, needles in their accommodation quite normal in home care seimers. Austrian sport, here the ÖSV, has not drawn any conclusions from it. But we should do that. Doping should be fought for us in every form and in every way, to show, and to be scribbled. I don't think it's good for the doping to make a sportsman, for example, television advertising for the ÖSV. I don't think so when sportsmen taken out of the sport as commentators are included in the ORF. From my point of view, this is not acceptable to young people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this budget for sport is good, but still expandable.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18162	From the government bank, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer spoke. Voluntary speaking time limit of 5 minutes; I set the clock on it. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think the sports budget is extremely encouraging. For a long time there was the demand for a sports billion – still in Schilling – in the field of sports, now we are already close to one and a half. There has been a continuous increase in investment in all our areas of activity, not only in terms of general and special sport promotion, but also in terms of disabled sport, and above all in terms of individual innovative projects. In this context, a focus is made clear that we are pressing for it in particular and that our whole effort is to bring more Austrians into motion. Unfortunately, there are only 40 percent at the moment. A first big goal is to move at least 50 percent. This is a crucial contribution to better prevention, a real contribution to health development and the development of quality of life in our country. To do this, you have to say: This is only possible together with the sports associations! We are clearly at the position that we do not want state sports, but that we are looking for cooperation with autonomous sports in Austria. These are the appropriate carriers to also implement these programmes in width. I only had the opportunity last Friday, in the House of Sports with the many representatives and Representatives of the Austrian sports organisations discuss our joint projects, and I am very glad that the cooperation is so good. In addition, the top sport is of course a topic next to broadband. Here we have several instruments available. I agree with all those Members who say that we need clear rules on the question of doping. It's not about the criminalization of anyone, but we have to ensure cleanliness here. This is important not only for the reputation of sports, but also for the effect that sports should have on young people. Fortunately, those young people who have sports are much less vulnerable to drug abuse than the other young people. But if the sport comes too close to the doping – and of course it has to do with drug use – then it would be a very dangerous development that we must stop. Furthermore, it is of course not good for our international reputation, even for the application for international major events. That is why we are called upon to introduce clear rules here. This helps the entire Austrian sport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, of course we have a number of major events. The focus will, of course, be on the Euro 2008, a mega event with probably eight to ten billion spectators around the world. There will probably hardly be any other event with which we can appear as internationally as with this one. We want to present Austria not only as a sports country and as a tourist country, as a country of high quality of life, but also as a powerful economic location. We are in the shop window, and we want to take advantage of this opportunity together. Therefore, in preparation for the euro, there will also be a lot of accompanying programmes with “Austria at the ball”, where we also want to involve all other sports organisations to participate in this boom. You can see already today, even if we have some problems in the Austrian Bundesliga, that more and more people are going to the stadiums. This is already a pre-effect of this European football championship, which I believe we should benefit for the benefit of the entire Austrian sport. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we will of course make every effort to support Salzburg 2014's application. Everywhere, where Federal Ministers, State Secretarys and State Secretarys are on the road, there is always a to-do list in the luggage. One point on this list is of course the Austrian candidate for a non-permanent seat in the United Nations Security Council, and the second is the support of Salzburg's application for the 2014 Winter Olympics. I hope we're going to be successful. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a wealth of projects in sport. It would be a long way from my speaking time to refer this to you today – we already had the opportunity in the Committee to discuss some of the questions in depth – but I can tell you: Sport in Austria is a real success chapter that we want to raise to a higher level. Cooperation between the associations, the Section for Sport, the Secretary of State and my cabinet is excellent. There is a very good and optimistic mood for all sportsmen, and I believe that we are working with our concept of doing a lot for wide-ranging sports, in order to provide a basis for top-level sports as well. to be successful. – I thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18250	Mrs Schasching is speaking on behalf of the last speaker on this subject. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18271	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I would like to thank you very much for being able to close this debate after our competent sports minister and Chancellor, and I am very pleased that this and many of the topics and concepts of the past have now actually entered Austrian sports policy, and I am very pleased that our Federal Chancellor is also representing this with such a vehemence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A word perhaps also to Mr Brosz, who today announced that the Greens would agree to the sports budget: I'm very glad! It has been said by all political groups that this is an extremely good budget. Just, dear Dieter Brosz, one of them said: You mentioned the umbrella associations together in your criticism, and you said no one knew exactly what was happening to the money. I'll tell you: Today, the control committee is meeting in the BSO. There are volunteers who are really working on checking the devoted use of federal sports funding. This is a very excellent exam and also a very cost-saving one, because these ladies and gentlemen receive a voluntary cost replacement of € 29.60 a day. I am just saying that with the extension and the additional monitoring committee in which auditors sit, the transparency is as high as possible here, and I am convinced that this is really working well. That's why I'm inviting you to really look at that. Come on, look at this! The invitation of organized sports goes to you to really look at it in detail, how it goes there, just to take the wind out of the sails here. Another point I would like to address is the increase in the women's sports budget, which has not yet been mentioned. We have €218 000 here in 2006, we have €250 000 under the title “Gender Mainstreaming”, and we expect €300 000 in 2008. I'm saying thank you now and thank you very much. This is an important area, and an increase in funds in this area is extremely well-designed money. I am also very pleased that there are even more initiatives now to support and force the movement in kindergarten and school. Just one request, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Sometime, then, it's over with evaluation. We do not need scientific work to evaluate all the projects, but we need a slim administration. I have heard that work is already being done on the fact that funding is to be paid on a simplified basis and that this bloated administrative device should be reduced in project financing. We need this urgently, and I'm trying to work here really fast. Then it's over with evaluation, and then sometime all of this has to be well evaluated, then all these excellent ideas have to be found in the regular operation. One last sentence, a big request: The increase in the necessary lower limit from € 40 million to € 60 million, which is still set as the authorisation of the Minister of Finance, should finally be included in the gambling law. As SPÖ, we also call on the ÖVP and all the political groups to work together to ensure that this will be done. Thank you very much, Mr Bundeskanzler!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18325	There are no more words available to me. The discussions on this subject have thus ended. I would like to thank the members of the Federal Government present and Mrs Volksanwälter Rosemarie Bauer. [[17:06:23]] National Defence Chapter 40: Military Affairs
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18359	We are now entering into the negotiation of the part of the state defense. This includes Chapter 40: Military affairs. Mr Pilz has the first speech. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18383	Ladies and gentlemen! It would be nice to have a discussion today about the adequate funding of the current reform of the Austrian federal army and we could talk about how the entire resources of international security policy are used to reform the Austrian armed forces. I still believe that the representatives of all the political groups in this House, as I take it very seriously, are confessing to the reform we have recommended in the German Parliamentary Reform Commission. But the whole thing has a condition, this condition is trivial and is called money. And the question here is: Is there enough money in the national defence chapter for the implementation and implementation of this reform? The answer is simple and short and is no! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes!]] Unfortunately, she's called: No, no, no, [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Crocodile tears are these!]] I'll bring you a simple example, and then we'll get to the heart of the problem right away. A significant part of the military reform – not the core, but still an important part – is the structural measures. Reasonably, it has been proposed to close a significant number of barracks and sell properties – in my opinion too little, in my opinion, more could be sold by 30 barracks, but this will remain a task of the future. The crucial point is: Is it possible to modernise by means of structural measures for the new forces? And if you look at the construction investments, you'll find one: There is no money there because the total amount of money allocated to construction investments flows into Eurofighter. And what applies to construction investments also applies to some other investment areas in the Austrian Federal Army. That's not a coincidence. No one in this House has assumed that with the decision of the German army reform a major reform with a minimum start-up funding of €1.5 billion on the one hand and the procurement of Eurofighters with an investment of €2 billion and a total annual cost of €250 million can be financed at the same time. This has been clear to every member of the Defence Committee and, I believe, to every member of this House who deals with security policy for many years. In spite of this, the previous and behind-the-sales state government has been in the midst of budgetary policy and the idea: Just go! Figures will be a next and closest federal government. And that was the big project: Order now, we order, and the neighbors should pay. The only problem the Austrian People's Party has is that it has ordered at the time and is now to be with the payers, but it does not know how to pay for it. From this embarrassment it can be helped, the Austrian National Council offers itself here for assistance, provides reasons for departure, provides reasons for withdrawing from the contract and has already provided non- and nailproof reasons for a complete withdrawal from the Eurofighter contract. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] This is an opportunity, and this one should be taken by the Minister of Defence now. I have taken note of – and it is quite clear that he has explained to Members of this House that he wants to wait for the results, the entire results of the parliamentary committee of inquiry and only then come to his final political decision, which he and not the entire Council of Ministers has to take. And I also noted – that was very important for the Committee of Inquiry – that he has promised us that in the period up to the end there will certainly not be behind the committee's back some kind of deal, some kind of deal, some kind of compromise with EADS and Eurofighter GmbH. This is very important because we have a daily growing chance, not to reduce a few pieces, not to get a discount, but to get out of the contract completely and free of charge. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is one thing that remains with this objective; for this it is not only the Green Group, but also the SPÖ, with its Federal Chancellor and with its Minister of Defence, that is the people in Austria and the taxpayers. Secondly, There should be a strange highlight in this debate – it has been announced through the APA. The Club of the Alliance for the Future of Austria has announced that it will make a request for distrust against the Minister of Defence. The first argument has to do with his past. It is pointed out that he was a civilian. To this end, only the following statement is made: Former civil servants have a great advantage as Minister of Defense: They have not provided a presence service and therefore have no special proximity to a particular weapons hole. They can lead the armed forces objectively – without special close relationships, without special obligations. And in fact, for me, much is in favour of putting the political fate of military national defence in Austria, where it is possible to put it in the hands of civilians. – This is one reason that I do not think is solid to justify withdrawal. The other reason I have already discussed is the intention of the Minister of Defence to get out of the Eurofighter Treaty as far as possible. – This is no reason for a resignation. If he succeeds and if the SPÖ succeeds in holding yet another election promise, that is, when it is so far, a reason for parla-mentarian praise. And nothing else! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] If there is a member of the government who is ready to resign, this can only be a member of the government who systematically disregards Parliament's constitution and rights. Then it can only be a member of the government who deliberately sabotages the work of the committee of inquiry, then it can only be a member of the government, who does not care what Parliament has to do and who also performs in the representation of the interests of the Republic of Austria. And then this member of the government can only have power. Wilhelm Molterer's name. May. Wilhelm Molterer is, as Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor, if there is a mature member of the government, certainly the number one – by far the number one – on this list. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: You're leaving! That's a lot of failure! Love as a mutterer! If you're in trouble, step back!]] We will still wait for Molterer's responsibility before the parliamentary committee of inquiry, but then it will be time to discuss the consequences of the House towards the Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor Mag. Wilhelm Moltererzu advised. [[Abg. Murauer: You are condemned!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: One who is referred to by the court as a breaker has no right to speak here!]] This will be a very, very important decision of this House in the interests of Austrian security policy, in the interests of the budget and in the interests of the rule of law and Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18531	The next speaker is Mr Gaál. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18563	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We know that the security challenges have become more complex and comprehensive. The protection and security of the population, each citizen must remain secure. People have a right to it and should not be taken as a cost factor, as is the case with a company-led state. There must be no savings at the expense of security, that would be the wrong signal. We continue to take a modern, forward-looking path in our security policy considerations. The current budget estimate for 2007 and 2008 is a more offensive and forward-looking proposal with very many considerations, new ideas and strategies that ensure successful work. Federal Minister! It has been constructive and well negotiated, therefore congratulations! The talks with Minister of Finance Molterer were very successful. I can truly praise you and your team. They were successful on the road in this regard, in contrast if I remember so, to Herbert Scheibner, who at the time has failed as Minister of Defense against Grasser - has failed, dear Herbert Scheibner. Every conversation with the then Minister of Finance was unsuccessful. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The less I understand, of course, the distrust you have announced today. I do not want to say that – really far away from what separates us politically – a long-standing friendship unites us. All the more I say: I think it is inconceivable what you have done here in terms of content. This is done if you are put under physical and psychological pressure. For me, this is the expression of political helplessness. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear friend Herbert Scheibner, there is trying to make politics with fear. Completely non-world and non-reality reasons must exist in order to accuse the current Federal Minister for Defence of State of breach of duty, breach of law, the scientific threat to sovereignty. All these are serious criminal offences. Dear friend, this is a very strong piece! I would have expected more from a former Minister of Defence, more serious. That's the lowest level for me. I am sorry that I no longer have time to discuss this with you when attacks are being made on Europe and Austria. If there are threats today, they are terrorist nature. In this respect, the German army and the executive are really well prepared, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true! You know that!]] But perhaps we still have the opportunity to talk about this proposal, which is really incomprehensible to me and does not find any understanding in me. This goes far beyond understanding for an opposition politician. Ladies and gentlemen! Policy has – and this confirms the budget – created organisational and financial conditions so that we can guarantee an efficient and credible security policy. We want to go this way together in this Federal Government – in the interests of the security of Austria and for the benefit of the Austrian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18627	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18649	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! First: We are announcing that we are strongly opposed to the motion of censure in question, because we cannot see any justified reason to the extent that this is known to us. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] Secondly, In order to shorten the apparently not-ending debate on the presentation of the Koziol opinion, I would like to make the following motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger, Mr Graurd, Dr Fichtenbauer, Dr. Bösch, Dr. Haimbuchner and other Members so that he can be considered to be correct: [[Quoted print version removed]] I can give it to you so you can just write it down. [[The speaker shall submit the motion in question to the minutes of the minutes of the minutes of the sitting.]] – So far to the formalities. Since we want to come to the main point – this is the budget question on the chapter National Defence – allow me to deal mainly with this main point. I agree with the published government agreement. On page 18 you will find the sentence: “The Federal Government acknowledges the recommendations of the Federal Hero Reform Commission”. And then we're going to go on: “The Federal Ministry of Defence (BMLV) will be provided with the necessary resources for the implementation of the tasks provided. The reform should be supported by a gradual adjustment of the budget volume in such a way that the shares for investment reach a third of the total expenditure on military defence.” I will send myself to measure this political statement on the facts of reality, and I will prove to you that this political statement is not being respected. I will go back to the statements made at the conclusion of the German Parliamentary Reform Commission or when giving their final report on 14 November. In June 2005 Dr. Zilk issued: Firstly, a mobilization of 50 000 men in order to cope with security operations inside or at the border, second, a viable and structurally integrated militia, thirdly, additional financial resources, about 1 per cent of GDP, and, secondly, the unrestricted transfer of the sale proceeds of property into the army budget and so on. The question now is: What are the resources needed to carry out the task that the Federal Government is committed to in accordance with the published government programme on pages 18 and 19? – The answer can be given to us by allowing us to take a look at the public statements, in particular by Lieutenant General. Othmar Commenda, who was the head of the “management ÖBH 2010” responsible for the transformation of the Austrian federal army, and in this responsibility clearly must have maximum knowledge of it. In a publication published in the official newspaper “Der Soldier” of 20. The following statement was made in December 2006 – the newspaper gives a presentation by the aforementioned Lieutenant General Commenda at the National Defence Academy: The total investment needed to implement the reform will amount to approximately €4 billion by 2012, including ongoing projects, without Eurofighter. – So: €4 billion without Eurofighter, with reference to the year 2012. How does reality look? – In line with the planning requirements still implemented under the Platter Ministry, the total amount of investment planned for the years up to 2012 was € 1.9 billion. – It should therefore be noted that, if one wants to take a so-called first step in the debate, the projects estimated at €4 billion are only covered by about 50 percent. In the years 2009 to 2012 there is therefore a planned coverage gap of € 500 million per year. The actual budget, which we now have in front of us, is expressed by 1,4 billion – with the continuation of approaches to be derived from the years 2007 and 2008 – up to and including 2012. This means that in relation to the needs of 4 billions and a stock of 1.9 billions, only 49 percent of the target had been budgeted as planned, and now – assuming a need of 4 billions and an actual inventory of 1.4 billions – only 36.5 percent of the target are planned budgetly, except for an explosion-like increase in the budget from 2009 onwards, which remains to be expected. In summary, I note that the statement of implementation of the objectives of the 2010 ÖBH is politically unsustainable, because it is by no means detractable from the budget. I also note that it would be necessary to evaluate the implementation of the "ÖBH 2010" or the implementation of the claims of the Federal Force Reform Commission and to raise the political demand for the re-establishment and re-installation of the Federal Army Reform Commission, in so far as it permits its health, on behalf of the Freedom Party, in order to evaluate their implementation. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's all right!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18717	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Fichtenbauer is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18776	The next speaker is Mr Murauer. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18797	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! The present defence budget is, of course, in a scale which very probably opens up the possibility of fulfilling the tasks, as measured by the other budgets. On the other hand, of course, it could have been higher, we do not want to dispute that at all. And we do not want to lose sight of the goal of making even more finances available to national defence. The Minister of State for Defence will have to carry out his duties with this budget – and I can remind him that he has quite a skilled employee in his ministry, who will actively support him. Mr Federal Minister, if we are already talking about costs: In addition to the publication of Dr. Koziol's legal opinion, which I would like to remind you of – I believe that the place here would be to make it available to Parliament – the cost of such a legal opinion would also be very interesting for Parliament. You will then take the floor, and I would ask you perhaps to tell us. The Federal Government Reform Commission refers to civil, economic, and comprehensive national defence. I would like to mention in the budget debate that it is the mental attitude to security policy that it is certainly not appropriate for the mental attitude to defend the state, if in this form we are talking about the state defense, the federal army, the procurement, the persons involved in procurement, if we are constantly discussing these suspicions, with these verbal attacks here again and again, as some representatives of the Green Group are doing, in particular Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go!]] Mr Pilz asked Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance to resign. The convicted person is here and requires others to step back to possibly save his position or perhaps his skin so that he can remain chairman of the investigation committee. Mr. Pilz, you're on it, step back! You've left the hall now, which I'm sorry about, but you'll be executed. I ask you to step back instead of asking others to step back! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Federal Minister! The tasks of our federal government, the state defense, are on the one hand national tasks: Ten thousand soldiers for assistance on the border to provide disaster and security tasks, to enable a professional militia that can also participate in exercises accordingly, and to get the necessary equipment, the necessary equipment – we will need – so that it can carry out its tasks. On the other hand, we have international commitments. We have notified that we will pursue the ‘headline goals’, that we will comply with UN mandates, ‘Partnership for Peace’, or in the context of European security and defence policy accordingly. To this end, it is necessary to create KIOB/KPE in line with delivery premiums and incentive systems and that we have the necessary resources for these international tasks, that we make the basic defence service more attractive and that we also extend the social package. It is essential that the decided social package is extended by at least one year in accordance with § 113h of salary law and that we change pension law, especially in the case of foreign use. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, you have always mentioned that you are trying to obtain the licenses for the aircraft software. Now you've succeeded. I would like to tell you that I am really pleased that you have succeeded in receiving the corresponding encryption license in May. That means we have the software available that the planes can fly in principle. Whether this encryption software is coming or not, the aircraft can fly of course, even if you take appropriate measures, can land in Austria. Now, as you have said, you have also managed to obtain the license for the crypto program, and I am pleased if it is still approved in May. To correct this, I would like to point out that over long years, since 2004, the Ministry has sought the license and the USA has repeatedly promised the timely approval of this cryptokey; also read in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. Mr Federal Minister, it remains certainly the criticism of you that you still have the goal of getting out of a treaty of the Republic of Austria, out of a contract - I mentioned yesterday - which the Republic of Austria has concluded, it costs what it wants. You're willing to risk a ponale of 1.3 billion. You are therefore responsible for other solutions, for intermediate solutions, you are responsible for replacement aircraft. What measures have you taken, what tenders have you made? They're hiding it. It will be safe to do everything you can, but you will have to cancel the Eurofighter. You have to get out, cost it what it wants. You don't care what happens to the counter-businesses. We have entered into counter-business agreements, many of which have already been promised, to the extent of 800 million; I only mention FACC or MAN from my own state of Upper Austria. They'll be in the house for many years. They must comply with the Constitution, and the reliability of Austria's contracting partner is at stake. I don't know if that's what you're asking, but to me and others the question is asked: How far is Austria still reliable as a contractual partner? How far can a contractual partner who has concluded a contract with the Republic of Austria still rely on compliance with the Treaty if another minister succeeds? – You also have to ask this question. There is also a new call for proposals for exit. You can't take any planes now because you have as many offers as you say. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: The “red” flu!]] It's probably flu. Grip is your favorite, flu is the favorite of the socialist party. SAAB's representatives were often in the club, introduced themselves and intervened. But SAAB flu was too expensive, in the investigation committee we heard all this – Toni Gaál, you will be able to confirm it to me. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] So it's probably going to be. They say to SAAB flus: Come with your planes, they're cheaper and better! – I tell you, no, they are more expensive and not so good. But probably the promises have already been made. Let's be surprised. Above all, Mr Federal Minister, it is your responsibility! You are responsible for the security of Austria! They are responsible for protecting, monitoring and in serious cases securing the airspace. You are in favour, Mr Federal Minister, and you want something else with all your force!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18903	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e18925	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The defence budget is well below 1% of GDP. However, it has been nominately increased on the basis of the funds allocated to Eurofighters. The extent to which the federal government reform is to be carried out with the available resources remains as questionable as the amount of amounts that can be recovered from the exploitation of military properties. Mr. Federal Minister, you expect €66 million from the sales of the barracks and their properties for 2007, €76 million for 2008. In Chapter 54 of the Federal Capital it is to be read that €20 million per year are to be delivered to the Ministry of Finance, so there is not so much left; there are once 46, once 56 million. For the exploitation of the barracks and properties, a company was specifically established, the SIVBEG, with the result that the revenue is further reduced, then it becomes even less. For me, it remains unclear how the 400 million from the Property Sales announced by you will be managed by 2010. This is still obscene to me. As far as the procurement of military equipment is concerned, I must say: The management of the Austrian federal army has indicated for 2010 that one and the other will be necessary, otherwise the federal government reform will not be carried out. There's a minimal variant here, and I see there's no replacement for the SC-7 SKYVAN. These are the two-engine transport aircraft used for parachuting; there are only two pieces in Austria. In an airplane there is 16 parachute jumpers. There's no replacement here, Minister of State. The HERCULES C-130 is not intended for parachuting parachute jumpers, it would also be too expensive, and there is no such intention as you assured me in the Committee on Budgets. A flight hour with HERCULES costs about €9 400. As regards the procurement of motor vehicles, you, Mr. Federal Minister, confirmed the purchase of five dingos for 2007 and ten dingos for 2008. For the Steyr-Pandur, these are the 8x8 wheel tanks, no means are provided. So that's very interesting. In this context, I would like to make the following request: – Not known to me. [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Is there a commission for the application?]] Maybe with you? Not with me! Or you'll ask my colleague. In today’s “Kurier” edition, there are a number of things inside, as is the case with the lubricating money. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But most stay with the rumpold!]] So, according to the honourable Member, For one, the tax is usually 3 percent of the total. I don't know. I have never had anything to do with this, Mr Oellinger. [[Abg. Oils: But the rumpold!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Ask Gernot Rumpold!]] The topic of airspace surveillance. The F-5 Tiger and SAAB 105 OE aircraft types shall no longer fulfil their purpose from the end of 2008. The Swiss F-5 must be returned. SAAB 105 is flying quickly and therefore no longer suitable for the control of modern civil aircraft, jet jets and so on since the 1970s. Control is not possible. No replacement is provided for in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. That is why it is a mystery to me how airspace monitoring in Austria will work in the future. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Let yourself be surprised!]] [[Abg. Gaál: Don't worry!]] Then: We all know that longer preparations are necessary to ensure that this is not going from today to tomorrow. The introduction of alternative aircraft types such as SAAB Grips or F-16, as the SPÖ has thought, would take several years, and all the investments previously made for the Eurofighter – currently about 1 billion – would be destroyed with one blow. According to your statements in the Committee, BAWAG has already transferred 45 percent of the procurement costs. A simulator building in tentway is also ready; the cost of this is 15.4 million. And the operating costs of 2 billion for 30 years are also inside here. Mr. Federal Minister Darabos, by refusing to issue the airworthiness allowance according to § 7 Military Air Vehicles Regulation, you prevent the use of airborne, tested and other NATO air forces, such as in the Federal Republic of Germany or in the United Kingdom, from entering the purpose of § 26 of the Military Power Act. Thus, they deliberately endanger the willingness of the Austrian federal army and allow third parties to infringe the sovereignty of the Austrian airspace, in the worst case also an attack on legal goods to be protected by the Austrian Federal Army in Austria. Mr. Federal Minister, in reality you have only one possibility: to negotiate a lower price in negotiations with EADS or with Eurofighter GmbH; anything else becomes more expensive than before. Other options you don't have at all in this case!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19071	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek on ensuring parachute training is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19132	From the government bank, Mr. Mag. Darabos. I'll set the clock to the desired 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19153	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, thank you for the very objective debate so far. There are still a few other words. I hope that will continue to this extent. It is indeed true that the German army is in a breaking phase, and we are in the middle of implementing a reform that has still been launched under my predecessor. This is a reform that has been described as the largest since the German army existed in the Second Republic. The army must be well equipped for its central tasks of disaster protection, global efforts for peace and stability, assistance at the Austrian external border, as long as the Schengen maturity of the states that have joined the European Union has not yet been achieved, and of course also for the theoretical case of military defence and with efficient and powerful structures. This was the task of the Federal Force Reform Commission under the chairmanship of Helmut Zilk, and this Commission has mastered its mission with Bravour. And now it is necessary to implement the recommendations of this Commission and to make the necessary funds available for this. I can only call Mr Pilz and Mr Fichtenbauer from the Government Bank: Yes, we have guaranteed the means to implement the 2010 ÖBH reform! We are aware of this, and that is guaranteed in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has been written a lot about the budget for the federal army in the last few weeks and days. One said it was too much, the other said it was too little. The truth is in the middle as it is so often, and I believe that because of these discussions we can assume that we have found the right means. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Who said it was too much?]] It is clear to me that the trees for the national defence budget cannot grow into heaven in times of long-term stability and in times of peace that we fortunately live through in Austria. On the other hand, I know that even in times of peace, the German army is doing incredibly important work for people and needs optimal conditions for its operations, a modern working environment and the best possible equipment. For this I have been involved in the budgetary negotiations, and I should also like to thank the generals present here in the House for the fact that it was not quite easy to negotiate this budget to the extent that it is now available to the Austrian Federal Government, even on the basis of the financial framework that must be guaranteed by the Republic of Austria and its compliance with budgetary savings has also been requested by the Minister of Finance. But I would like to ask you to read the budget carefully: We have – and I say this in full awareness of the figures – negotiated more money than the 2006 budget has indicated, and I can prove the number of figures; I can also bring this to your attention in the context of my short speech. There is enough money there to implement the 2010 ÖBH reform. There is enough money to ensure modern working conditions for the Austrian federal army. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to briefly outline a few figures: We had declared € 873 million in 2006 in terms of staff expenditure. We have €894 million for 2007 and €897 million for 2008. The actual expenditure is also a welcome picture for the German army: Compared to 2006, there is an increase of 44 percent. You will now say: Sure, that's the Eurofighter rate! That's right. Mr Murauer, I would just like to give you a short sidestep. That is true, but also Mr Fekter has changed her opinion over the last few days and has said that the ÖVP is also ready to fight with me for any savings of tax millions, in the sense of Austrian taxpayers. And here, I believe, we have a common goal in mind, and I hope you will not hinder me on this path, but support me. Any euro that can be saved in Eurofighter procurement is a euro won for Austrian taxpayers and can be re-issued for other, more important areas. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But even if you subtract these Eurofighter rates, there is more money for new purchases in the federal army. We had at our disposal €937 million in 2006, and in 2007 it will be reduced by €995 million for the Eurofighters, i.e. an increase of more than 6 percent. We were only able to achieve this by negotiating with Minister of Finance Molterer not only the total volume of material expenditure, but also a few more posts, such as € 15 million more on empowerment and € 60 million more on resources related to additional construction projects which the Minister of Finance has promised to me. In other words, in 2008, these expenditures for investments and purchases under the heading "Federal expenditures" will increase by €2 million once more, so that they will be available, including these funds concerning empowerment and the additional funds for construction projects, €997 million. I think that is a result of which the members of the Austrian Federal Army can be satisfied, because this can move forward the modernisation of the equipment in order to provide the soldiers with the highest level of security, and to provide them with a great deal of security from our side, in view of their often dangerous tasks, especially abroad. That was and this is important to me, because the security of our soldiers must always be in the foreground, even if we have to use the savings fund in the budget. Thanks to this budget, we will be able to serve the protection and safety of Austrians in the procurement measures that we have launched, and will also provide the soldiers with the guarantee of being able to rely on the quality of their equipment in their efforts. I would also like to address some specific examples and priorities, particularly in the field of disaster protection, in the context of my brief remarks. Over the next two years new ball protection vests will be acquired and protective equipment for the specialists in the field of atomic, biological and chemical resistance. The ongoing procurement of the new combat suit for the whole force – which has also been discussed several times in the Budget Committee – can also be rapidly continued on the basis of the available budgetary resources. Further emphasis on procurement is placed on larger equipment. In the next two years, the pioneers will be supported by additional disaster response equipment. There will also be new truck structures and new container vehicles for the sanitary area. In the field of airspace surveillance, which has been mentioned for a short time, I am trying, on the one hand, to meet the saving idea that this government has written together on the flags by saving money in the acquisition of new aircraft, and on the other hand, which is of course also important for the coming major events, to bring the current systems up to date. The golden hood radar system, which ensures passive airspace monitoring, is therefore modernized in the next few years – that is also budgetaryly guaranteed. Not least, these budgetary resources, which I can have in the next two years, are also sufficient to finally complete a large and important procurement process of the Austrian federal army – my predecessor has not been able to conclude it; not a criticism, but a fact – namely the procurement of a new military radio system. It will be driven forward rapidly; I want it until 31. This year's final report. A clear weight lies in the foreign operations of our soldiers, who are valued all over the world. The double budget 2007/2008 is the approach to achieve the goal of training up to 3 000 soldiers for foreign use. Of course, as has already been pointed out, the follow-up budgets are also in place. However, there is consensus with the Minister of Finance that this important factor has a high priority for Austria and that this factor should not be underestimated even after 2008. I'd like to finish by now. The Austrians can be proud of the fact that their German army is above all disproportionately high in international use. We are in the leading field around the world. I have negotiated with Minister of Finance Molterer a good budget for the area of national defence. It is a good budget for the Austrian Federal Army and thus for the security of the Austrians. The implementation of the work of the Federal Force Reform Commission – you can rely on it, ladies and gentlemen – can progress quickly. This path must continue, and I should like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, to make every effort to support me. I shall not be taken away from my way by a group's motion for a reluctance to do so. On the contrary: I think that shows that my path is the right one!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19213	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19234	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the two motions for resolutions: Mr. Fichtenbauer, I can calm you down! I think it's perfectly clear: This opinion of Koziol is an interim report for the Minister. [[Abg. Grill: Watch what you say!]] I can assure you: If the final opinion is valid, signed by the expert, it will be made available as the committee of inquiry has decided. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then you can carry it!]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the motion for a resolution tabled by the BZÖ, just a few points: It is clear that until the 30th century. June 2008 will monitor the F-5 of our airspace, and we will in all cases ensure appropriate airspace monitoring after that. [[Abg. Scheibner: How?]] You don't need to worry about that. On the question of how the basic defence service is designed, Mr Scheibner: First of all, we are about the six months of primary military service, and second, we can only influence the birth rate in Austria limited. That's because you think we're neglecting the ground defense service. If you thank your motion for a resolution on the M-106, tank bataillon gun – M-109! – I should like to remind you, Mr Scheibner, that the changeover rates, which you have provided for many million euros and which are in the hands of today, were not necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: 109!]] But the procurement took place in your time, you really can't attach this to Minister Darabos. You have to reject that! On the question of budget, it is also clear that: After all, we have 0.92 percent in the budget when considering the overall framework, as measured by gross domestic product in 2007, and 0.81 percent in 2008. In 2006 it was only 0.71 percent, and in your time it was always below 0.7 percent. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you are famous for the Eurofighter budget!]] This is a fact, Mr Scheibner. – I have also commented on this request. As a general rule, Mr Scheibner said that the German army had received the necessary resources. The budget was increased by €667 million for two years. This will make the implementation of the priorities of the 2010 federal reform possible, as the Minister has clearly stated. I congratulate Federal Minister Darabos, that he has also been here with the Minister of Finance, and I congratulate him on his team, on his team! And I thank the soldiers for their performance. – I believe that not only Norbert Darabos has won the big deal, but also that Austria with the civil servant Darabos as the Minister of Defense has gone a long way.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19327	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19364	Mr President. Federal Minister! The only ones who have taken a terrible turn here are obviously the Austrian taxpayers, and that came as follows: It's no coincidence that we're standing at the defense budget where we stand. The breakfast of individual members of the government in July 2002 has already been addressed. On the one hand, a finance minister who was not a device at all, then for the cheapest, any used equipment, and on the other hand, for nothing at all, and on the other hand, others who were for the grip – the Eurofighter has come out, we know everything, and on the basis of which dubious circumstances that was so, that is the subject of the investigation committee's investigation committee's investigation. But only on the financial aspects: The whole thing – and you even agreed to write it down – has only happened and was possible because the Minister of Finance has made a promise that he will take over the additional costs. He! He did, didn't he?- Oh, my God! Not the defense budget has to carry it. I haven't heard such nonsense at all! At the time, we have already mentioned this to you: Where else are defense spending to be recorded, if not in the defense budget? And where else, if you didn't want to take an exorbitant increase in this budget, should it go, except here, at this point? And now you run around and mime the planless – perhaps some of you have success with it, others were simple and gripping evil. But this thing won't rest. It is absolutely understandable that even in this matter it was so tricked and pushed that the beams bowed themselves, and only in the financial aspect of this procurement, because of which we had a distrust request here, we still have reason to do so, at least in the APA, by the Minister of Defence at that time – this is becoming more and more bizarre, Mr Scheibner! – by saying: Now we have to calculate the Eurofighter costs again, and then you can see that nothing is left! Look! – At the time, you didn't want to see anything, you didn't want to hear anything, but I'm not going to make you responsible for it alone, but rather others. The fact is that after this said breakfast, a number was put on the table and because of this number the type decision was taken, with €1.7 billion still in front of the flood – but that was still meated, it was definitely another reason for it – with €1.7 billion for 24 pieces. This number is lying from the front to the back and wrong, just like this entire procurement process! It would have been much more at this point. It would have been much more! It was either an error or something. You've all been overdriving each other. But obviously you have surpassed the Minister of Finance, who at the time – but there you are not the only one. It was quite clear that this financing structure, where anything outside of the defense budget is spelled, does not exist at all – no more than the economic platform put into play by the Federal Chancellor, where he has pushed a whole campaign with this nonsense. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is the whole falsehood of this procurement, which can be understood by number to this day! And I'll tell you a few more. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: That's not true!]] - I do not want to give up. Thank you. [[Call the ÖVP: Come on, no one!]] Well, they just set up. It is important that we now use the time to look at what has been done here in budgetary terms. It's wonderful how that speaks for itself. There's a lot going on in the meantime. In any event, the Budget Committee, which had to adopt the budget accompanying legislation in May 2003, has also been dispelled from the front to the back, especially by the Minister for Finance. The plater was much too helpless, we have to admit. To remember: First, a template came with loud “x” inside – against the law! - That's not arrogant! [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Arrogant!]] Your procedure is law-abiding, has always been law-breaking – and now you're excited! [[Call the ÖVP:Frequent!]] I will continue: They are contrary to the provisions of the Federal Budget... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] Go out, check it out! We've just had a budget debate, so maybe you should continue your education: § 23 Federal Budget Law! It would have been to approve quite different figures from those put on the table by the then government of this House, the Parliament, not the 1.9 and some billion, but... [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] Mr Missethon, you know so little about this thing that no one understands why you are constantly intertwining there! Concentrate You're looking at your secretarial activities! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Kapeller: Such an arrogant thing as you!]] So: 2.4 billion would have had to stand there at least, and with 1.9 billion you have led Parliament around on the nose! And today, you're wondering why there's nothing in the back and front. But I say: The whole thing has a logic – a lying logic and a logic of bending and sliding! [[Abg. Murauer: Hello!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mr President.]] You know that very well. And now we've reached the point where we're finding out... [[Abg. Grillitsch: Again a call for order!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] It's totally meaty to me, and your call for let's go! We've reached the point where everything is on the table. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: This is a good defence budget, Mr. Cot!]] And now you're going around and looking for some millions that you already threw out of the window. I'm just telling you this for the future, because you again criticized the Minister for trying to get out of here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: We praised him!]] Of course, he's been criticized by Mr Murauer, but that's your coffee. But he would be criticised if he did not realize the chance that, in relation to the entire share of the purchase costs and the operating costs with relatively modest procedural risks, one would not enter into the withdrawal of the contract, as it is rightly said, even with very good chances that it would cost us nothing at all. Even if it wasn't, it would be economic, because if you expect it to be 30 years, you'll see that we bought together the most expensive “crumbs” available on the market for anything we don't need, because the operating costs make up the main part of the costs; but they still don't appear anywhere. We are now holding up at five billion, not two! And even if we had to pay 1 billion, we would still drive much cheaper if we arranged ourselves with similar solutions as we do now. But that's not my coffee, that's the position of the greens. Only: When it comes to budgetary truth, it is a sensible position. Let that be said! Hit Finally, the tomorrow “NEWS” on: The wonderful Major General Wolf, just as the contractual negotiations have begun, has re-appointed for EADS in a medium that bears EADS-Impressum, a few weeks and months earlier has duly cashed his wife into his company, where he is commanditist, but [[Abg. Murauer: After the decision!]] They say: Everything clean, everything right! Congratulations! Go home and enjoy yourself there – and don't light up the plenum here!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19565	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19586	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Kogler, you have closed the circle, you and Peter Pilz! What You have now delivered to acting here, this house is not worthy! You defame, you accuse, you insult, you have no reason to prove! That's unworthy of this house! They're kicking democracy with their feet! That's a joke! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But please, you are doing just as your colleague Peter Pilz, who is just helping the committee of inquiry to get into the scene to make politics, and not to ensure the safety of Austrians. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But politics we all do, don't we?]] The Committee of Inquiry should not be here to reveal inconsistencies if they exist, but you only have a political goal, and that is to get out of here, cost it what it wants. I would now like to quote a daily newspaper of today: Green break-in. No Eurofighter goes. – In February Pilz cried out and you said that the club premises and also the office of Peter Pilz had been broken in because the investigation committee was running because documents had been stolen there. – True is something quite different: The police have done excellent work because Platter's Ministry works. It was an Austrian, a notary intruder, not politically motivated, but you blew something into the air at that time, just to make headlines. And so you do it all the time in the investigation committee and in this case. [[Abg. Brosz: Can you prove this?]] Yes, you can prove that just as your statements were always proveable. But it's probably getting worse. But I would not only like to mention the Green-Politics who play a embarrassing role in this whole process, in the whole of the state defense, in the security of Austria, but also the role of our Minister of Defence is not completely more memoryful. Yesterday you were still for the exit. In the “press hour” you still talked about it. Now you've just said we're supposed to form an alliance together so it'll just get cheaper. I think you have to say one thing: There have already been training of 1 000 people directly or indirectly in your department in order to be able to put the pilot into operation in order to ensure this business with millions of means of taxation. Well, the goal of an exit can't be yours! But even worse – and you know exactly what is actually being spoken of throughout Europe –: They are on and on to put the reputation of this republic at risk with this eternal back and forth. You don't know what you want. Do you want to achieve that Austria is one of those countries that are despised for the breach of a contract? Or would you like to call into question other European obligations in future, if it seems to you to be politically good? Why Dangers With your party-politically motivated course of action the values of the Austrians, namely neutrality and security, confirmed yesterday in an IMAS survey? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, please stay true to yourself, live Your responsibility as Minister of the Army! You only need to relive the Preamble of the Government Convention! ÖVP and SPÖ guarantee the highest level of internal and external security, and the continued loyalty of the Republic of Austria is beyond dispute. Mr Darabos, Minister of State, especially personal respect for you, I ask you for the troops: After 100 days, you will finally become Minister and stop being Party Secretary!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19648	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19670	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, I must say that you have a nice coalition partner! But I can calm you down: As a real opposition politician, I am not going to confuse the role played in the National Council, I am going to make opposition, right. Mr Federal Minister, we are going to vote against the motion for a reluctance, if it is to be tabled by the BZÖ today – we do not yet know – because we believe that you should start to rule in your place first, and because we also want to wait for how you work with the Committee of Inquiry, especially how you treat the Koziol opinion and how you will maintain cooperation with Parliament here. However, Mr Darabos, your speech, which you have held before, made me uncertain again in this position of my group regarding the motion for a reluctance, because I must say that it was only a matter of standing. In your speech, Mr. Federal Minister, you spoke with refreshing ignorance about the Austrian Federal Army. I have to deal with a few points here. You, Mr Federal Minister, have been – I have some understanding of this – of course Eurofighter Minister, because this is an important issue and also the only point in which the SPÖ may, in part, keep its election promise – in part, Mr Gaál, it will not succeed! But You should not forget, Mr Federal Minister, that you have several construction sites and that the Eurofighter is only one of them; I already admit: a very large one, but only one of them. You have many construction sites in the Austrian federal army, which you should finally take care of! [[Abg. Faul: From whom did he inherit it?]] You had the forehead to say, in the context of your remarks, that the budgets available to the Austrian Federal Army in the current and coming year are sufficient. You also had the forehead to claim that you want to comply with the results of the Federal Hero Reform Commission, Mr. Federal Minister – but you do not! They do not do it exactly on that point, which is crucial and which we saw in the German Parliamentary Reform Commission at that time as a crucial point, namely in financing. We agreed that these reform steps, which are set in the "Bundesherheid 2010", will only work if one is provided with a start-up funding and if one makes at least 1 percent of the gross domestic product available for the current financing of the Austrian federal army. – But you are far away! And that is why you should not say that the financial resources available to the Austrian Federal Army are sufficient, because that is not true, Minister of State, because this is evidence to us Members that you have not dealt with it sufficiently. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I'll give you a few examples. You want – and you have confirmed this – once again to decide on the six months of the ground defense service, you want to stick to these six months of ground defense, although all the factual arguments are against it. On the other hand, recruits can no longer be sufficiently trained in all three basic training courses. It is contrary to the fact that the Federal Government Reform Commission expressly opposed a reduction before the end of the safeguard operation at the State border. – One consequence is that security efforts have become twice as expensive, because there are no longer enough recruits available, Minister of State! The reduction of military service also resulted in the reduction of civil service – and there you know yourself – to nine months. And if you deal with civil service organizations, then you will They also hear that the time is too short for the proper training of civil servants. I wonder what state-political responsibility has led people to carry out a reduction in military service here in this House and thus a reduction in civil service. I think this is irresponsible, and we liberals will also act against it, because it is necessary for you to be able to set priorities with the Austrian federal army. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr. Federal Minister, priority number one must have home protection. They must ensure that, throughout the year, at least 10 000 to 15 000 persons are available to carry out emergency operations. I would remind you of the flood in Lower Austria a few years ago, where, I believe, 15 000 men were made available by the Austrian federal army to cope with the disaster. You won't be able to do this with a six-month military service. Mr Federal Minister, you will not be able to set up the necessary quality and quantity in the area of KIOP, in the field of international operations with the budget resources we have available. You've announced that you'll set up 1,500 men for 2007 and 1,700 men for 2008. I doubt that you will succeed with the financial resources we have available for it. Mr Bundesminister, you should also state clearly and clearly that for you, the objectives set out in the 2010 "Bundesheer" are not a step towards a professional army; They should be clearly committed to the decentralized, regional dislodgment of the Austrian federal army; You should confess yourself clearly to a militia – and finally begin to make clear ideas in these points that I have now mentioned, and finally start to lead your place of business!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19733	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19755	Mr President. Minister! High house! For me, today's debate has very little cabaret-like features. On the one hand, relatively childish argument is made by the BZÖ, it goes to the better knowledge of the FPÖ and to the wretched argumentation of the ÖVP, it is full of withdrawal requests – everyone calls for resignation – and the complaints contained in the distrust request are partly really very childish. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a serious thing, Parliament!]] There the Minister is told that he had too little left for snipers, that he would allow attacks on Austrian legal assets – that was also said by Mr Dolinschek – and that he would not give his consent to a commitment outside the Austrian airspace. – Thank God, I can only say! But I think the greater the excitement for a minister, the stronger the point is that this minister is on his way to becoming one of the most successful and popular in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to use my speech on the budget to put a conscious counterpoint to this very male debate and to speak about and, above all, for women in the federal army. I consider it an essential task to ensure that women find optimal conditions in the federal army. It is not about preferring them or treating them better than the men, quite the contrary, that is not what the women in the federal army themselves do not want. They do not want to be put in the first row like exots and are almost considered to be an emancipatory task, but they want to make their contribution. I have met some women in the federal army and I am deeply impressed by them, because as in so many male domains, the women who are first there are not easy and have to be quite tough. As of 2007, there are 304 female soldiers, which are 20 percent more than 2006, and the trend is rising. What is the status quo for women? I think it was very important to increase the salary. Up to two years ago, the women who have applied for vocational training and for the job deserved the same as those who are present. This has changed thanks to the intervention and commitment of the SPÖ Group. The then Minister Platter gave up his resistance on the basis of our motion for a resolution, and that was implemented. – Clearly a success for the SPÖ! But now it is about looking at us, too, why there is such a high drop-out ratio of women. This has to be examined urgently. What can be the reasons for this? – Family creation, for example, or lack of compatibility between work and children. As a result, it will be necessary to think about tailor-made childcare facilities in the Federal Army. Or: In Germany, for example, compatibility with working time regulations is regulated by law: Block times, part-time and so on. Finally, I would like to say that it is first of all important to evaluate and improve the conditions for the women who are now in the federal army. Secondly, it is important to ensure that the drop-out quota is massively reduced so that the German army is an attractive choice for more women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19797	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19819	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Don't be afraid, Minister of State, the debate will remain real, because we do not see national defence as a matter of fact, where party political polemics are to be brought in, but where we really – but it's also a lot, it's about the security of the country and its population – the need to discuss in every detail and in all consequence. I do not, in the first place, propose that you have not sufficiently enforced the budgetary negotiations. What I am blaming you – yes, I am telling you, my dear colleague – what I am now blaming you – and you have now done so again – is that you are not sufficient to state that you say here that you are giving a guarantee for the financing of the federal reform. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Osaka]] Mr Bösch has already said that you can't do that, because the Federal Commission for Reform itself has set a budget framework that you do not only do not reach here, but you do not even get close. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should be ashamed of the entire procurement process!]] They now praise the interception budget, the 400 million that you get more, even though you are against the interception hunters, and know very well – and this is what the officials who are now completely desperate because they are also involved in this party-political campaign – that real €28 million will be available for the procurements less per year and no longer if you count the corresponding inflation, if you count the higher operating costs and all of this together. If you say, well, but get under construction You're more than that, I'm gonna have to keep up with this. You know very well that this is only a macularity again, because you get the proceeds of the barracks sales, but you have to deliver a fixed amount of € 20 million a year back to the Minister of Finance. The proceeds amounted to just over €40 million in the previous year. So with the 20 million that you may save, you won't be able to organize the federal reform. And that's what I'm talking about. You'd really have allies, I'll tell you. Because we all know exactly how difficult the office of a Minister of Defence and Defence is. And you know very well that my group has also offered you this cooperation. The criticism of us is not that you have been civilians. That was our reservation at the beginning, because we have said that someone who cannot agree with his conscience to carry out his own service with the weapon will probably not impose the consequence that is necessary in this department in order to lead the resort successfully against all resistances. [[Abg. Reheis: That's a premise!]] Not a contact, Mr. Minister, has given it... – Be quiet now, you don't have to talk everywhere about what you have no idea of! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] You'll be able to talk! – No contact with our interlocutor Dolinschek, nor with me in 100 days ministry. Mr Gaál knows. Although he has always criticized, we have still taken too little care of him. But we would not have trusted that there is a 100-day ministry with an opposition politician Toni Gaál, in which there was no contact between the Minister and the SPÖ spokesperson in the opposition. And that's what we blame you. We are not the opponents, it is a common matter in the defense of the country. But it seems you haven't noticed that in these 100 days. If then wrong numbers are mentioned here. Who was that? – I think Mr Parnigoni. You said that under 0.7 percent was the state defense budget at my time. - That's wrong! It was 0.8% of gross domestic product, and we negotiated the replacement for border use, we negotiated the replacement for international operations. We then organized the device accordingly also for border use and achieved the necessary personnel costs. Still too little. But I've always said it's too little. You can't blame me for somehow praising that. We have said yes, that is too little, we must have more, because that is the responsibility of a Minister of Defence. On the topic of arms initiative. Mr Parnigoni, you got M 109, which was the Mech package 1996. With all the changeovers, this has been purchased at the time. It was a sensible acquisition, and it was also useful to bring this device to the most modern standard. If you say now, you don't need them all anymore, even fine. But then you have to bring them to the modern standard and then sell them off, because then you really get another proceeds. But not as they are, all these changeover sets are now at the price of scrap! That's the irresponsible thing that's happening here! The transport aircraft has already mentioned my colleague Dolinschek. The fact that the 40-year-old Saur shooters are still being tried to use by putting on heavy grenade-throwers for expensive money, which they are probably unable to carry, is another point, Federal Minister. The militia, it's been addressed, what about it? Now we have said a great deal, new situation, new tasks for the militia. Where are the new orders for the militia? - And that would make sense. Someone said it: Anti-terrorism. Of course. There would be a task for a volunteer militia, for a military framework that is motivated and that says, yes, we want a realistic mission. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos: It has been eliminated under black-blue, not under my...!]] . We have not eliminated them, Mr Federal Minister, but it is about defining new tasks. If you're the rebels... - But I'm excited, Minister. [[Federal Minister Mag. Darabos:... the Miliz get a review!]] I've got my next cadre exercise in June. I hope that up until then we will have a task to do so, so that we also know what we use a week of leisure time for the service of the state defense. There you have to distinguish between trooping militia and cadremiz. I hope this distinction is clear to you. It was right to say that the troop exercises are abolished, because every two years people who do not actually want to call for a commitment for which they are not prepared at all makes sense. But what we need is a volunteer military, a military framework that, out of free parts with great conviction, performs the service for the state defense and then receives a mission, for example in property protection. It is quite simply the case now that not even part of the priority A objects can be protected. And that would be a realistic task for a militia, Mr. Federal Minister, if you would like to discuss it already. But we have also criticized other things, the answers to the question that you are not issuing the report to the committee of inquiry. Each tax act is issued and then immediately published. Your report, with which you have always juggled, will not be published. On budgetary questions within the Committee. When do we get these? Today is the budget debate. To date, we have not received the answers to written questions we have put there. This too is not necessarily the right way to deal with Parliament. Finally, because you asked the Eurofighter question. That's perhaps your only and most important assignment you've got from your party headquarters. Good. The Examining Committee will also work accordingly. I don't think he'll find a reason to leave because the decision was correct and is understandable. But, Federal Minister, you have an order and you are also obliged to the federal constitution. As long as this project runs and is upright as it is, and there is no starting point, you have the obligation to implement the project and not delay it at the expense of the taxpayer. You now have as an argument that you don't want to take over the aircraft, said the licenses aren't there and it would be irresponsible to take over a plane that can't fly. On the other hand, you say the F-5 is sufficient for airspace monitoring. – But this can be much, much less than a Eurofighter, even without these licenses that you urge here. Now we hear the licenses are coming in May, and now you say, but still you will not take them, because there are still hundreds of other reasons that you are moving to do so. That is exactly what it is, Mr Federal Minister, that has moved us to this mistrust request that you, for purely party political reasons, are neglecting and delaying all these points on the part of the Republic's interests, including financial interests, even though you would have the task of implementing this one. You have not yet said if you already want to get out of the way, what alternatives you put in this project over the year 2008, how to fulfil this task. They say that the F-5 is sufficient by 2008. I've always heard criticism of the photographing Draken. It's not airspace surveillance. The F-5 is exactly such a device, which is an emergency solution, which can only take over the tasks of airspace monitoring in good weather. She as Minister of Defense... – No, I have always said that, even in the Dragon, dear friend! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] If that's what a finance minister says, if that says an opponent of the state defense, that's all right. [[Abg. Broukal: I am not an opponent of the state defense! I was with you 20 years ago!]] But the Minister of Defence must try to get the best device for maintaining the country's security. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is our criticism that we are putting in here accordingly. Yes, Minister of State, and in this sense. You always give guarantees, you say that's all right. One thing, that's interesting too, you don't even know your own laws. I was really amazed, because after 100 days I would have liked you to know how the law was designed. You said again yesterday that you will now shorten the service to six months. I am right to Mr Bösch, that has also been a wrong decision at that time, but there is a decision. There is a law decision: With 1. In January 2008, the military service is also reduced to six months by law. Now, if you're bringing this up as one of your most important goals, I'm wondering: Is it the most important objective to put forward a legal regulation by half a year, although only one could lift the adoption of Minister Platter, namely you yourself? So there's a mistrust of yourself. If you already distrust yourself in this area, then you do not need to wonder if that does the opposition as well. Mr Federal Minister, in this sense and in all the facts – and I say to you, we have waited 100 days for you to cooperate with the opposition; not a call, not an appointment, nothing with the opposition, with the interlocutor – I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I know that the announcements are the same, and this request will not find a majority. But I'll tell you one thing: Each of us here has to bear co-responsibilities even if, due to your duties, the security of the Republic of Austria and its population is not guaranteed in any case.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e19969	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20142	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20187	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we should not have this debate on the military budget exclusively about the Eurofighter. There are so many important areas in the Austrian Federal Government, which belong to them. I must point out, however, Mr Federal Minister, that some of your political responsibility is not in such a way that you have the impression that there is a 100% holding back on your part. Right ahead, Mr Scheibner: But I also find that the motion for a reluctance has been covered. The remarks of colleagues Pilz and Kogler have been on the verge of ridiculousness anyway and were unworthy of this House. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Federal Minister! However, Article 80 of the Federal Constitution also gives you the command and order power over the Austrian federal army. But the decision-making power, the decision-making power you have to bring yourself, is yours. I'm telling you, too. Of course, your partly shaky views in the field of airspace surveillance aircraft procurement already raise a number of questions that you need to answer clearly and clearly once. On the one hand: Why should Eurofighters be delivered in November only if the licences are already available in May? The security software is called cryptokey, but I think you don't have to find any cryptic excuses at all times so that they can only be delivered at the end of the year. Secondly, Why can't the Committee of Inquiry take a look at the cociol opinions? Their statements are very contradictory, and so far, I think, even with general incomprehensibility, also with members of the SPÖ Examining Committee. Why did SPÖ try massively to force the flu, although we also know from the Court of Auditors' opinion that this offer was over-priced that it did not meet quality requirements? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Why was there a presentation at the SPÖ club? There was nowhere else. – Once we expect clear answers. Mr Bundesminister, you have spoken today: A reduction in the number or even a replacement-free abolition, that is not a reduction and no discount, that is not saving, that is an attack on the security of this country, on the security of the people in that country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The present budget for these military matters, after we have worked through it, is a logical result on the basis of the forthcoming work and tasks for the Austrian Federal Army, basically without any special tips, that must be seen in this way, but it will meet the requirements. This budget is a solid basis for meeting and guaranteeing the many challenges we face over the next few years. I would just like to mention a few points that have not yet been raised: Of course, the 2010 military reform, not a question, but also decrees the use of the Austrian federal army in the disaster service. We have experienced in recent years the importance of this commitment. Here too, I would like to predict that we are gradually continuing to train people, to upgrade the equipment and equipment, so that, even in the future, such efforts can help people efficiently and quickly and are protected in these very difficult operations themselves. It will also be very important in the next two years for military service to be reduced by law. I would like to make one more point: This is the promotion of the top sport in the Austrian Federal Army, which on the one hand acts as a motivation for the members and the staff in the Austrian Federal Army, on the second, but also, of course, as a sign of the Austrian federal army, as advertising, and at international major events Austria is always highly regarded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The speaking time is over!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think that if we can fulfil all these comprehensive tasks, we will also do enough to ensure the security of jobs in the German army and the security of this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20262	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20284	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner, I would now like to make a constructive proposal: Perhaps you could make a motion of censure tomorrow morning, against the Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. This would correspond, as it were, to the daily working rhythm of your group. [[Abg. Scheibner: He's doing well!]] In our opinion, this motion of censure might have a little more potential for discussion than the one you are presenting today. - It's just the entrance. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can do it!]] But now, Mr Minister, on your real task, where we still give you confidence, including from the Green Group. You have surrounded it yourself in your presentation, it is about the federal army reform. In our opinion, however, it should be your main concern, first and foremost, that you are in a position to ensure the national security and overall security of Austria as a whole. In view of the budgetary data, given the cost situation in this aircraft procurement act, Mr Minister, I think – and I should be aware of this You have also been here for a long time, especially in your time, when you were still working as an opposition politician – the state defense, the security of Austria only guarantees if we can provide budgetly for it. And we can only provide budgetaryly if we give up the purchase of this sintering fighter aircraft, Mr Minister. You should finally share the knowledge with us once. I therefore think that if I look more closely at the budget – I have now met various committees – the defence committee is now the last one in my general education in Parliament, I already know everyone – it is really interesting, especially when looking at what the “F-5 Tiger” leasing devices from Switzerland cost. There were 17.5 million € budgeted for 2006. The airworthiness, the safety of Austria, was guaranteed in view of the fact that we spent €17.5 million on safeguarding the airspace. [[Abg. Scheibner: That really hurts, Mrs. Colleague!]] - Oh, my God, that's the way it is. SAABs are still on their way. You're right, they're old, they need to be supplemented or somehow replaced, or another solution has to be found. Only I say de facto, that was your government, Mr Scheibner, when you were sitting in the government group that found out with 17.5 million for the F-5. [[Abg. Scheibner: Emergency solution!]] - Yes, I did. I just wonder why you can't make a just as cheap variant and why you can't finally bury this entire sinteur “fight plane breakfast business” from these Eurofighters – occasionally – and really build the rails to the Examining Committee, Minister, that the decisive foundations are being discovered, so that you can finally get out of here. I do not see any other sense in view of the budget data that you have now presented to us, because the federal government reform is unanimously and intergrouply fully correlated, is the great consensus. This is actually the national defence and budgetary challenge for the next three, four, five years until 2012. This main task must be finally sacrificed the sub-task, the secondary task of this combat aircraft history. Minister, this is your most important task! I can only point out that, in your current double budget, the entire rate payments that are budgeted here do not fit in with the needs. You can do it yourself! I just don't have the time to read this to you in detail. Another aspect: My previous speaker, also Mr Scheibner, has already pointed out that there is an urgent need in the German army. These M 109 will be put back to the side, these old shooter tanks will be activated again – there will be a new gun on it. It's stuck in the back and in the front! I mean, as a layman you get to the head when you read the “GrenadierExpress” as it looks in the maintenance work. There in a maintenance hall the ceiling is much too low, so that the lid of the tank tower cannot be lifted at all. Since the crane is missing, the extraction plant has not been installed in time, because the daily work in the sense of the state defense is only more suffocated because we have too little money and because primarily the money is to be spent on wrong things. Mr Minister, for your part I would ask for correction, and not this beautiful speech you delivered to us earlier, with the following note: Everything is going on, the federal government reform is budgeted, all this will be budgetary and financially manageable, and we will do all of this. Look at your own budget! Look into your own federal army, into the individual departments, there you will see that it is not enough! That is why I say: delete the fighter planes, get out of the Treaties and start a new future of national defence within the meaning of the outcome of the Federal Force Reform Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20372	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20394	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I broke my head, which moves the BZÖ and the Minister of Defence, apart from service Scheibner, so to speak with grenades on the Minister. The budget can't be, because the negotiations for the budget have been excellent – and if one still accuses him of being a civil servant, one must say: it has been very outstanding! This has never caused his predecessors to do so. But what makes me stupid when I think about it: Was it not perhaps Frust, Minister of Defense Scheibner, that, on the basis of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, you had to find that in times when you were ministers as the pilots were to be acquired, your own party colleague, your own finance minister, who was not even civilians, he pointed out flat feet in my knowledge in order not to have to go to the federal army, or stomach, that is just as tragic; but I do not want to assume that it was not really so at the time – without your knowledge – [[Abg. Stomach: Stomach!]] You've admitted that to yourself! – has already been negotiating with Eurofighter, about which later to be delivered 18 pieces and at the same time also offered a package without ever talking to his closest party friend, the Minister of Defence about it? One thing I rule out: It would never happen to Defense Minister Darabos that he would not notice if his Finance Minister disavowed him behind his back, he would be forced to order aircraft. That may be the reason why you react very sourly. I'd admit that, too. You can learn from the past. Mr Murauer, the Eurofighter Committee is contributing to this, but one will ultimately come out: We will together insist that the national defence can only be achieved together. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] It will not be possible to help Austria through mutual debt allocations. Mistakes that have been made are shown if you admit. At the moment, it would have been good to negotiate with the opposition to plan it in consideration of aircraft purchases. [[Abg. Murauer: The Federal Minister does not even talk to the coalition partner, even with the opposition!]] You didn't want to. Today, you are trying to support the escape from it, that you will assume that the SPÖ would have been for flu. The SPÖ wasn't a plane at all! You weren't asked. You didn't even consider knowing what the opposition was thinking. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That's the problem today, and you'll have to chew. I will, however, help you to reduce the cloister. We will conclude the investigation and then make decisions together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20455	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit; Your group's remaining speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20477	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr Darabos, Federal Minister, you said: For many, the budget is too much and for others too little. - Yes, you're right! That's how it's been for decades. The military in Austria, our federal army always gets too much to die, and too little to live. The only thing that has been done is to use the instrument of the federal army, the team's instrument there in party politics. That was already under Prader when the German army became the stronghold of the ÖAAB – and that should not be it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I'll give you that!]] The federal army is our all concern, it's our national defense, it's us, it's our youth serving the weapon there! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sounds]] Our youth – and what did it all mean? I remember serving as a one-year volunteer in Glasenbach in 1970/71: What were we wearing? How did I feel ashamed of being a Schärdinger who had friends in Neuhaus and Passau who served in the Bundeswehr?- Oh, my God! How were they equipped and how were we equipped? Because the German army had too little to die... – too much to die, but too little to live! [[Abg. Riepl: That's it!]] And we have a little more to think about, ladies and gentlemen. What have we heard so far? – We heard of fighters, Eurofighters, yes, the colleague Moser even talked about the M 109. I'm all out of the way that a green man takes something like that into his mouth at all. We talked about shooters, we talked about equipment, budget and everything, but we didn't talk about one thing: What's the federal army? – These are people. These are not any people, these are best trained people as trainers, as sub-offenders, as officers, as general staff officers, and this is our youth, our male and now also in part – unfortunately only in part – our female youth. These are people and, above all, people who have a job there. These are people who want to live their life's purpose there. On the basis of the results of the Federal Force Reform Commission, which has already been discussed so much today and which I have been involved in, which sometimes makes me sleepless next today, because I love this German army and this state defense with my full heart – therefore I am not so excited about the outcome of the Federal Force Reform Commission – some 6,000 professional soldiers will eventually hang in the air. Sometime until the year 2010. And who cares about it? In every company that is taken over by any global capitalist and that lets its shares rise, because he announces that he is dismissing 10,000 people, some social package is tied up from the outset – and we are only talking about it. I would therefore like to make a request, together with my group, to deal with this problem: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to include this in the negotiations – and finally allow me to say a few more words. I have already told you to the Committee: Let's check to what extent airspace surveillance is even a military task! Let's check it out! This is an assistant for internal security. Just as soil surveillance is a matter for the police – on the streets and elsewhere – airspace surveillance is a matter of the Ministry of Interior. In conclusion: Someone said the Greens have only one goal, they want to abolish the Eurofighter. No, ladies and gentlemen! The Greens – and I also fear some of the Social Democrats – have only one goal, they want to abolish the military.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20561	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20619	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20640	Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of my group, let me say a few fundamental comments on the debate over the last few weeks on the Eurofighter and on the comprehensive defence of the state, and also represent our position – without polemics, as I hope and believe, but also with the necessary clarity, which should be customary among coalition partners! Mr Darabos, I really regret to have to say: Unfortunately, we sometimes have the impression that you have not yet arrived at your office as Minister of Defense of the Republic of Austria. [[Abg. Pepper: Here you go!]] I say this, ladies and gentlemen... [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible!]] I am saying this because you are also putting the support and confidence of the coalition partner to a hard test through your behaviour and also through your statements. And we regret it, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Pepper: We too!]] I would like to expressly say this. I do not think it is right what Mr Scheibner has already complained about, for example, that our defence spokesman has not yet received an appointment from the Minister of Defence to discuss fundamental problems with him. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] [[Abg. Grill: This is an enormous arrogance!]] Thank God it is not so in all ministries. For example, I have an excellent relationship with Mr Faymann, and we are also talking about the basic problems of the transport sector. It should also be on this issue and in these important areas of national defence. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Darabos, you know: The former Federal Government has concluded a legal and binding contract on the procurement of Eurofighters, and the ÖVP is a government party to this Treaty. It is also a contract of the Republic of Austria. The Coalition Agreement also states that both government partners comply with such contracts that have been concluded. Sure – we stand for that too! –: This agreement can also be dissolved under certain conditions, ladies and gentlemen, and that is also good! As long as these criteria and these conditions are not undoubtedly met, however, we do not consider them to be politically opportune and unfounded and not acceptable to the international reputation of Austria, if you are constantly giving the impression that you are a minister for the dissolution of this Treaty and not one who is loyal to the Treaties of this Republic of Austria as long as they are valid and no criteria, no conditions, no need for the resolution of such contracts, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] I know, Federal Minister, that you have an important responsibility for this place, for the national defence and security policy of this country, and that is not always a pleasant task – we have also felt this for many years in the defence of the country. It sometimes also forces unpopular decision-making, but your first task is to provide for Austria's military security – to ensure these in the airspace, too, and not to think primarily of populist elections in the past, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, I have to tell you: The responsibility for Austria's security policy is now something different than being a party's campaign manager, and we also demand other priorities and attitudes – and we are missing this painfully, but we hope that this will change over the next few months. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the purchase of the Eurofighters was one of the best-tested procurement actions of the Second Republic. The Court of Auditors has noted this several times. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, what did he find out?]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: (in the direction of Abg. May. Kogler) Best bidder!]] But if we are now discussing the abolition and dissolution of these contracts, you also need to take a risk assessment on the possibility of an exit, and you are also responsible for the military policy component of this exit. In other words, you have to ask yourself the question: Are there alternatives? And if so, what? What are the costs involved? How to assess the implementation of a new tender and a new competition procedure? What are the risks to the Republic of Austria in this case? What about the counter-actions in this context? What additional costs will be incurred for taxpayers? Ladies and gentlemen! To all these questions, to all these unforeseen risks, you have, in our opinion, remained guilty of a convincing answer. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Talk time!]] We very much regret this, but we will have to ask for this responsibility.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20811	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20832	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kukacka, we are also talking about a common security policy in the military field. I'm looking for all of you: Let's go this way together! [[Abg. Murauer: But please make this possible!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: This should be said to the Minister!]] Federal Minister Darabos, I would like to congratulate you on the good outcome of the negotiations with Minister of Finance Molterer on the defence budget that can be seen. Of course, there are reasons, because important things are coming up. For us who live on the border, assistance on the Austrian border is of particular importance not only in order to secure the border, but above all in order to stop the inhuman tow beings, or to show them their limits. Efforts to get out of the contract or at least to reduce the Eurofighters to be bought must continue. We owe it to our people, and here I trust you, Minister of Defence. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is also hoped that the hopefully positive results in this respect will lead to the modernisation of the equipment of the Austrian federal army as a whole. Yes, Mr Federal Minister, and I would also like to thank you on behalf of the citizens of Burgenland for the quick solution in the lease of the so-called "Blue Break" in the Kaisersteinbruch. Here it was possible to prevent the possible degradation of the population there from being burdened by a lot of dust and noise. They acted quickly and unbureaucratically. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to all those who still criticise the person of our Minister for Defence: I have been with Norbert Darabos for a number of years, and I know him as someone who is honestly trying to find solutions, and if they are still so disintegrated. I think some of you are still underestimating him, but you will be taught a better person – I promise you. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I wish you, Mr Darabos, a great deal of strength for your responsible and beautiful task. The population, and above all the population of the Burgenland, is fully behind you! Finally, I would like to thank the soldiers and their superiors in their national and international efforts for their work in the service of the security of our Austrian population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20894	The next item is the speech by Mr Stauber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20915	Thank you very much, Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! If one listens to the debates here, one could think that the Austrian state defense is only moving in the context of airspace surveillance and airspace defence. I am also concerned with the people who serve here on the ground, especially the thousands of groundmen, soldiers and soldiers, around the military members. I believe that if the Eurofighter advocates here give them all serious comments that in the air the best and the finest of the finest is just good enough, while on the ground we have some conditions in which we have decoded accommodation, lack of clothing and safety equipment for these soldiers, then it can only sound like cock. However, I am very pleased that our Federal Minister has already been able to go a little further in this first budget and will be able to do much more for these people in the future. I would also like to thank you very much, Mr Federal Minister, for making a clarification in connection with the future of the state military commanders, because for us military commanders are very important, and you will ensure that they are even more anchored in the military overall structure than before. Mr Scheibner, I think it is extremely unfair for you here to accuse Minister Darabos and express your distrust to him. He is the one who now has to make mistakes and failures that have already begun under your responsibility as Minister. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our Minister has already arrived in his office and he is doing a good job, otherwise there would not be so much criticism of him. – Mr Minister, good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20960	The next speaker was Mrs Fleckl. It has also been given a speaking time of 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e20982	Madam President. Minister! Somehow this is the encounter of the strange kind: Here, the causers become defendants and judges; those who challenge construction sites are actually those who are the builders of these construction sites; and if you read the proposal here and today, then you have the feeling – with the many conjunctive, suspicions and suspicions that stand in there – that there was someone here at work who has soothsaying skills. [[Abg. Murauer:... the herbs!]] I have the feeling, for example, that in the past few days when Mr Scheibner and his colleague Westenthaler have written this request, Mr Scheibner and I have rather questioned the oracle or have consulted the glass ball. The fact is that, for me – and that is what I always notice in the personal and direct discussions with our soldiers – that today in Austria we have a Federal Minister who will bring fresh wind into the Austrian federal army and who is behind the soldiers – and that is important to people outside the barracks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me say one more sentence, because it is very important to me: In his statement or in his speech, Mr. Peter Pilz said that far too few barracks in Austria should be closed to him, that there is still too little closure around 30. I would like to invite Mr Pilz to my district to speak directly to our soldiers on the spot, to the people in our region, to whom the barracks is important not only as an employer but also as a protection for our people – and not only in the use of disasters. I would like to invite Mr Pilz, if he dares to come to the district and meet the people there with us. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Exactly! That's a thing...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21039	Next item is the report by Mr Faul. He'd like to talk for 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21060	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Scheibner, if you had been looking at the “Report” yesterday evening and heard the statement of Professor Welser – expert expert – then you would probably have addressed your request for distrust today against yourself and against those who were there at the time during the Eurofighter purchase. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Yes!]] Professor Welser – not under the cover of immunity – has spoken of extremely questionable and dubious transactions in the purchase of these Eurofighters, and I will also explain to you why: You are here today, Federal Minister, and say that you have flown to Sweden because you had to find out and find out that the MiG was not the right aircraft. Do you know what you can do? – You could sit in the back, but you were carried by your lobbyist. Only the Air Chief could tell you what was and what wasn't the matter. And when he said to you, Do you know what, Mr. Minister, would you buy a Russian refrigerator? Well, then we have to buy something better! - That's how it starts. That was dubios enough. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs Scheibner, on your statements concerning – dubiose – flight numbers and flight hours: At the time, you wanted us to know that we had to be in the air 24 hours at the new threat scenario in Europe 365 days, and then you calculated the flight hours! - Well, if that's not dubios, then what? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your speech!]] Mr. Federal Minister out of service, I am thinking of the dubious call for tender and, above all, of this after-sales game: At the moment when decisions have already been taken, directives have been adopted which have led to this decision. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are a real “expert”! - Maybe you could make the minister?]] Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Scheibner: Best-Providing Guidelines: Have you ever experienced in normal business life that an object is more expensive compared to another object, but after nine years or at 18-monthly credit financing then suddenly becomes cheaper? And when I asked the Chancellor how he could do that, he said: I don't understand, but the computer threw it out like that! – Well, this is dubios, Mr. Minister! [[Abg. Scheibner: It has not “been cheaper”... was best bidder!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: It has not “been cheaper ”!]] Now I would like to remind you of the dubiousest of all decisions: You go in with a finished flu request for breakfast, then there is the Semmerl and the coffee was a bit hot – and come out with the Eurofighter! – Wasn't that dubios, too, Mr. Federal Minister out of service? [[New call for tender of the Abg. Scheibner.]] And I'm thinking about the borrowing: Mr Scheibner, would you be in your private life if you bought a car for yourself or for your wife, leaving the credit transfer to the one that offers you the car? That's what I'm thinking: [[Abg. Scheibner: The BAWAG not!]] That's what you'd have taken care of! [[Abg. Scheibner: You're right: The BAWAG not!]] Mr Scheibner, at the same time that you, and not by the Federal Finance Agency – and there is also a very strong German chancellor behind it – have been offered by EADS itself, to 4,48 per cent, in my city, with a lower rate than Triple-A, to finance an art house – should I tell you? – 3.0 percent! – 1.5 percent you've been shitting and giving away all the time!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21210	Deputies!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21226	And if you come out today, Mr. Federal Minister, and here “doubt”, and Mr. Murauer, too, and then send young colleagues here, I also think of one thing that is dubios for me: You're just trying to save more of what's to be saved today! – You will probably know what I mean.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21260	There are now no further words on the budget chapter of the state defense. This is the subject that is being dealt with. [[19:09:00]] Justice Chapter 30: Justice
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21290	We thus proceed to the negotiation of the section on justice, Chapter 30. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Stoisits with a speaking time of 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21314	Dobar vecer, poštovane lady i gospodo! Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Bundesminister, I am pleased that you are present today. I regret yesterday that at the first reading you were not there on the bill concerning reform of conditional dismissal and then on the question of amnesty law, criminal compensation law, I suppose, could – and not: not wanted. That is why I mentioned this yesterday because it is in the era Federal Minister Dr. Michalek, also then Böhmdorfer and subsequently also Minister Mag. Gastinger and, as a whole, in the Committee on Justice, until now have always been used to trying to bring to an end as consensual as possible to achieve as high a consensus as possible in the field of justice, generally truly consensus, even with very bulky and difficult materials, where one would not suspect that there is agreement in Parliament, where ideologically the notions are already very far apart. That's why I'm glad you're here today. However, I do not repeat my speech on a conditional release yesterday, because the colleagues who wanted to have heard it yesterday, and you know it anyway, because you have now dedicated yourself to your first major press conference, if I leave the whole of Causa Elsner aside, precisely this topic – overcrowded ports, reform needs in this area, not only on the issue of dismissal, alternative forms of punishment. And I can assure you that we from the Green Group will support the efforts that are now being carried medially – but also in committee meetings we had the opportunity to talk about it. Our proposals do not cover themselves in all the details with the ideas of the Federal Ministry of Justice – and I now always distinguish the Federal Ministry of Justice from the Federal Minister for Justice in the field of Justice, because the Federal Ministry of Justice has been in this office for a long time, and I already know more what is wanted and not wanted there – but I can only say to you: We count on you in these questions! To the Jugendgerichtshof and to the latest developments in this field, Mr Hradecsni will then comment. I would now like to make a few comments on the budget itself. – It is always gratifying when budgets rise. It is particularly gratifying when the budgets are in areas where in recent years there has not been too great a success at the budgetary level and in enlargement, although it has also been under Böhmdorfer and Mag. Gastinger gave that. But the miscarriage still exists in the question of the longer procedures, of access to the right, of the feeling of many residents of this country, that, if they are right, they only wait for too long for this right, because the judicial organisation is the way it is, because the legal order is the way it is, and some right-seekers then have the feeling that it does not support it, but is hindering it. It is often so that it is organizational things that make this access to the right too difficult for people. That is why we are pleased with all the points where there are expansions – especially in terms of personnel, in other words, in the 2007 and 2008 establishment plans. It cannot be said that this is what would be necessary to live up to a condition that is a little closer to the ideal that is desired, for it is by no means ideal. We – all those who work in the field of justice; You can certainly now see this on the basis of these forever and always repeated cases, which are never the same but same problem situations, yes. Unfortunately, I was unable to take part in the budget deliberations on the Justice Chapter due to another commitment which was no longer delayed, and therefore I still have a question that I do not understand: Although it is now being increased in the 2007 establishment plan in the area of human resources – i.e. judicial institutions and judicial authorities in the countries as a whole – there is a reduction in the 2008 agenda. There is certainly a rational explanation for this, so that hopefully there are no fewer people than now, but I would just like to understand how that is to be explained – because otherwise there are no longer a total of 714 posts, now always compared to the 2006 establishment plan, because then finally 63 are missing in the 2008 establishment plan again. How many are they really? – That is why this is so relevant, Mrs Federal Minister, because – and now I come back to the current judicial issues – many things in the extension of staff automatically result from the fact that, in recent times, speaking in the last legislative period, there have been important implementations of large legislative projects: Tag Sachwalterrechts-Amendingsgesetz, a very important matter, patient supply law, also the question of the extension of the victim assistance facilities and the legal claim of those concerned. That needs more staff, and that needs to be made available. That is why I fear that the extension of staff will not lead to a reduction in the staff need where it already exists, but rather: New tasks need new people – and that's what's trying to do. That is why I am convinced that it would be negligent for the Greens to agree to this budget for a long time and for this positive assessment that there is more budget, because I already predict that we will be sitting here in two years, and that this is the song of the overcrowded prisons, of the lack of judicial guards – not singing, but speaking from the speaker's desk. And that is why I believe that this assessment is very focused on reality. One last question now is how justice policy has been done by the great coalition in parliamentary terms since the latest: Three or four weeks ago we were here, and there was a motion for a resolution on the evaluation of case law in relation to sexual offences. - Whenever I hear: Evaluation of case law, then I am somehow very nervous. We did not agree to this request either. Otherwise, I'm always for evaluation: Evaluation of the impact of legal provisions – yes! Today we are faced again – and I assume Dr. Fekter, Dr. Jarolim will comment on this – with a motion for a resolution concerning professional bans on sexual criminals. And it is no coincidence that this motion for a resolution, whose efficiency I am more than doubt, is coming today, because at the first press conference of the new party chairman of the ÖVP, Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer, am On Monday, there were two topics: first professional ban for sexual offenders, second, further sharpening in the tourism sector. So – and now my criticism goes towards social democrats – and there is already a motion for a resolution, which first wants a report and secondly already sets out – regardless of the content of this report, which the Minister will put forward – that, at least, a legislative proposal for the implementation of this report should be drawn up. Please, what kind of process is this: a report that will come first, whose content we do not know, but which we already know will be necessary for legislative action? Mrs Minister, I warn you: Don't be fooled! – And otherwise everything good!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21399	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Darmann in word. You know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21424	I'll do it very briefly. – Mr Stoisits has just said in her speech that the number of posts will increase in the field of justice in 2007 and 2008. The fact is that there is only one intermediate level in 2007, but if one compares the figures of 2008 with those of 2005, only 14 judicial guards are more planned and 31 places less in non-judicial staff. – So a circumstance that is not understandable at the best of will in the increasing crime figures.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21451	Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21472	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that this budget really reflects a successful budget negotiation. The area of justice is one of the few sites that really has a strong increase to make, especially in the personnel sector. Ladies and gentlemen! If we know the catastrophic conditions that have taken place in the area of justice in recent years, then we know that we are actually just before the end of an effective, efficient justice process. We were confronted with the Böhmdorfer course on the one hand/süssel on the other, which, however, has set a lot of actions that were actually completely pointless. In particular, construction activities that were not needed by any human beings have been carried out, and thus the budgetary development in the coming years has been seriously threatened, as we have often discussed. If, for example, I think only of the Riemergasse, ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to remind you of this, because I would also like to say that we are going to chew for many years what is going on, I would almost say, broken. The Riemergasse was still built by 112 million at the time, so it was more or less a flagship of a modern court building, a modern court building, built against the old Ministry of Finance, empty for five or six years, while one could have used still loose spaces. – Then Minister Böhmdorfer, the Federal Government of Schüssel, comes and says: The location must be gone! We need to get away from this decentralized situation! – The 300 meters from Stephansplatz! – It needs a central location, a central court building. That was in the Marxergasse, in the City Tower. 2 billion schilling back then, about 180 million € additional costs – only extra costs! – over the next 20 years! Here the money has been thrown out with full hands. On the other hand, there is a non-juristic employee for six or eight prosecutors to work. How should that have worked, ladies and gentlemen? Mrs Justice Minister, I should like to congratulate you on this, of course I should also like to thank everyone else for having made it possible to improve this in the negotiations together. Justice has again been given the importance it deserves. If we are talking about living in a rule of law, the framework conditions must also be consistent. As has been said, there is an increase in the budget in the staff sector. We also note that revenue in the field of justice is increasing. The Ministry of Justice is certainly one of the very few Ministries, if not the only one that is more or less very active; if the penitentiaries were to be distributed or not included, it would be highly active. The field of parole aid is getting more. We have also been presented a bond relief package that makes real sense, which shows that there has been a return to work with understanding, expertise and scientific expertise. It does not use anything, it must not be thought that with the increase of a sentence – and unfortunately God had to be announced to the masters of the FPÖ again yesterday; from the BZÖ I do not expect anything to change – already something. [[Abg. Dolinschek: We are not from you either!]] I think we will certainly discuss in detail with colleagues from the FPÖ when something really works here. I think the most important thing is accompanying redundancies. It is important that those who come out of penitentiary receive an accompaniment, parole aid so that the risk of relapse can be effectively reduced. Minister of Justice, once again congratulations. We're on the right track – thank you. We are looking forward to a good future for justice policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21509	Next item is the report by Mr Fichtenbauer. Your group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21546	Madam President. High house! Minister! The time is very short, so my speech is too short. We criticise the budget approach with regard to the right statement that more attention should be paid to victim protection in the future, a slanting and slanting situation. Procedural aid is better taught, very low is the victim aid, it has only 10 percent of that. We shall put forward a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aspöck, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Cots and others, calling on the Federal Minister to seek, within the framework of budgetary powers, a re-distribution of the funds budgeted for parole aid in favour of victim aid. Secondly, When you reflect on the field of justice, of course you are really annoyed – what my previous speaker has said, which is also my subject matter: Justice is an area that people who participate in the judicial system pay themselves de facto. In this respect, camera-listics are in truth unbearable. It is as if the budget is spent 1.4 billion on the justice sector. De facto, however, is the net delta of 300 million, and this is going to go completely into the judicial institutions. At some point you have to start this thing substantially again, because at the same time the gwerkst is more material, better equipment, more staff is a never-ending story. Of course, you don't have the yellow from the egg today, but that must be a point that will keep you busy. Next point: It is true that around 43 percent of prisoners in prison are foreign criminals, where they must be targeted to ensure that they are transferred to their home countries for execution. There is already a corresponding agreement at EU level. The non-EU soldiers are of course a particular problem. In the medium and long term, a common solution at EU level – which is likely to affect all other EU countries alike – will be to seek an EU-joint penalty. I believe that this should be cheaper and that it will be possible to implement human rights in accordance with human rights. Without time, I close my valuable remarks and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21585	Thank you, honourable Member. The next item is Mrs Fekter's speech; you have done six minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21609	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In the media, material components from the Eurofighter Examining Committee have been published over and over again. However, these acts must be treated as confidential under the Rules of Procedure. In particular, the following facts have been published in concrete terms, which violate the obligation to keep confidentiality in respect of expenditure and tax legislation: § 48a BAO. In the case of an official, such conduct would have to be punished in accordance with § 251 of the Financial Criminal Law in conjunction with § 310 of the Criminal Code. Other persons, such as parliament staff, club staff or also delegates, are liable under § 252 Financial Criminal Law in conjunction with § 121 Criminal Code. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Yesterday, the National Criminal Court Vienna in a media procedure not yet legally valid, but found that the Chairperson of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee Dr. Pilz found that the crime of breach of the obligation to carry out confidentiality in accordance with § 252 para. 1 Financial Penal Law in the form of a media crime. It is clear to me that I am protected from the persecution because of such a delicate Mr Pilz is protected by immunity, and he is faring behind it. However, there may also be contributors in this respect, and this is why this should be pursued. The Official Principle of § 34 para. 1 StPO also applies here. That is to say, on the basis of this principle, the public prosecutor has to intervene and initiate proceedings here. The prosecutor can't have this knowledge of the criminal court because it's been reported on all day in the media yesterday. [[Abg. Brosz: Is he legally condemned? This is an interim order!]] This Decision of the Landesgericht of the Viennaer Landesgericht refers in particular to the fact that, in accordance with § 252 para. 1 Financial Penalty Act of a person who, without being an official or former official, violates the obligation to pay civil liability, by the Court of Justice for breach of professional secrecy pursuant to § 121 para. 1 Criminal code to be punished. If you've realized this crime or you're going to suspect it, the prosecutor's office has to intervene. And that there is a suspicion here on the basis of the initial conviction – even if it is not legal – is in fact suitable for the prosecution to enter. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: The fungus should step back!]] [[Abg. Brosz: Not legal!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Berger, I therefore ask you: Has the prosecution already intervened in this regard? And if not, what do you intend to do to help the right to break through here? [[Abg. Jakob Auer: It is time for something to be done!]] ==References====External links==* Official website In April, documents came to Parliament, and immediately thereafter there were publications in the media. [[Call at the FPÖ:This is particularly objectionable during the week of the week!]] Again, there is a legitimate suspicion that the provisions of the Criminal Code have been violated. We MEPs are grateful for complying with the laws, and in particular those Members who work in the Investigation Committee are grateful for compliance with confidentiality. [[Abg. Brosz: You may also use the word “budget”!]] The fact that the chairman breaks the laws so shamelessly is a scandal! He should resign because it is also incompatible to have such a procedure on his neck and to hold the chair!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21721	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes; this also corresponds to the remaining speaking time of your group. I would ask you to pay attention to the matter, too, because that was not quite the perfect thing for the previous speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21759	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make two points in the near future, because more time will not remain. [[President Dr Glavischnig-Piesczek: Unfortunately, the word “budget” has not been said once!]] [[Calls and calls between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens]] On the one hand, I would like to give the Federal Minister a few figures to the discussion about the Jugendgerichtshof, because in the abolition of the Jugendgerichtshof, the savings were estimated by the removal of fixed costs and the aggregation of a Court of Justice, a public prosecutor's office and a judicial body with an annual cost of 620 000 euros and 80 000 euros. [[Continued unrest in the hall.]] This without taking into account the saved rent. That is to say, these additional costs will be reclaimed when a full Jugendgerichtshof is set up. The question of whether it will be a court of its own or a part of the grey house with its objectivity is therefore extremely important financially. On a second point... – Madam President, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21800	I ask for peace, and I ask Mrs Fekter to come to me briefly if it is possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21829	I hope this isn't about my speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21854	Let the colleague continue now.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21886	Thank you, my colleague. The second point I would like to address now concerns once again the debt relief package you have presented to us. I would like to point out quite clearly, of course, that we will have no problem with regard to the issue of conditional redundancies on various points, whether they are the footings, the development of this concept or the possibility of non-profit work instead of the replacement sentence, in order to relieve our detention centres. That won't be a problem. However, the point you propose is to criticise – and we will stay there and talk to you in the knowledge – the resulting release of foreign criminals after half the term of detention, with only the rule that these perpetrators have a voluntary right of return in their home country, in their country of origin, although they do not even have to be known or can, which country of origin is here. That means: How will this continue to be persecuted? – This is an essential point that has not been answered to us until today. In addition, it is certainly not in the interest of the security needs of the Austrian population if these persons return to Austria after being released, despite the ban on their stay for Austria. Another point is: How will EU law be manageable if, following this conditional dismissal, we have an Austrian ban on residence and in the rest of the EU countries, we have virtually no influence on what is happening there? These were the two points I wanted to address, apart from the fact that there are only two ways to solve the problem of the overcrowded detention centres, namely, on the one hand, the way that the red-black government is now going to go with the detention program: mainly to release the prisoners – through a conditional detention. On the other hand, there will be the way to create further detention rooms. We prefer this way, because it is necessary. If you look at the trend of recent years and if this continues, well 2 500 prisons will be available in Austria by 2008 too little. In this case, one must start projects today rather than tomorrow in planning, because an implementation of a detention centre, as we see it on the Vienna-new project, takes several years, and even the 350 detention sites that will be created by 2009/2010, will by far not be enough to achieve this rate of crime, which really takes place from day to day, from month to month. Monthly and in recent years, there has been a steady rise in margins. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e21932	Mrs. Dr. Berger, Federal Minister, has now spoken next time. However, I should like to ask Mrs Fekter to come to me briefly. - Please, Mrs. Minister. [[Abg. Steibl: Not at all! But you can come here!]] [[Abg. Brosz: That's incredible!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Greens.]] Mrs Minister, you are speaking. [[Prolonged calls.]] I'm allowed to ask for rest! The Minister for Foreign Affairs is speaking. [[Further ongoing calls.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Is the session now interrupted or how?]] I should like to ask for peace and quiet. The Minister is now on the floor. - Please, let her speak!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22008	Madam President. I am sorry that it has become so late and that we can no longer speak in such detail, because I very much appreciate that we have a good debate here that we have had it both in the Committee on Justice and in the Committee on Justice. I welcome the fundamental recognition and approval that has come from the previous speakers. In fact, thanks to the support - I can expressly say this - in the Justice budget, Mr Vice-Chancellor on all financial issues, by Mr Bundeskanzler and by Mrs Bures on the establishment plan, we are able to make very clear improvements. Of course, I am not 100% satisfied with these improvements, but in the circumstances and, above all, in comparison with the last ten years, they have been relatively clear. We have been able to negotiate an increase of 7 percent in the 2007 budget, and for 2008, we have an increase of an average of 8 percent. These are the average numbers. For example, I would like to highlight the increases in the execution of the sentence, because this is a particular concern to many. We have increases of 12 to 14 per cent in the approaches to the execution of the sentence. This certainly also helps to remedy the enormous problems that have been faced here and which have to be taken over. Mrs Stoisits referred in particular to the establishment plan. To this end, we have net 303 additional planning points for 2007. We will use these as a priority in the judicial institutions in the field of justice. A second priority is the reform of the criminal code, which is known as 1st. January 2008 will enter into force. We need additional staff, especially with the public prosecutors, and we can now add planning posts to both the public prosecutors and non-judicial staff. The rest is distributed to the courts, the Supreme Court and the others. The discrepancy of the increase in numbers from 2007 to 2006, as measured in 2006, is explained by the fact that, of course, the Ministry of Justice also has to carry out the pension deduction, as it is done at all ministries, and that in 2007 and in 2008 we no longer have any second planning point freed by retirement may be re-occupied. However, we will benefit from the scope of a very high level of staffing that we see this pension deduction and non-retirement mainly in the administration and that we do not carry out this pension deduction, in particular with the judges and the prosecutors. With regard to the additional tasks you have rightly mentioned, it is certain that additional staff will be needed for criminal process reform. These are essentially prosecutors and this is non-judicial personnel to support those prosecutors. The areas of victim aid you mention, where we will give more money, the parole aid, the authorities, we will finance from the effort we have made. These are associations that are active here, and we can help these associations to make the additional expenditure by increasing the amount of expenses involved. This applies in particular to the trade unions, where the increases we have in the matter can be financed by additional 60 bodies, in particular the new clearing bodies. If you are concerned that there is an evaluation of the convictions in the area of sexual offences, I would like to assure you – and I have said this in the debate we had in this House on this occasion – that: Of course, evaluation does not mean – and I have clearly distanced myself from it – that there are instructions and influences by the Minister of Justice on independent justice. Evaluation means that we have everything on numerical material available here: The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The special provisions in the field of sexual criminal law and sexual offenders, which are also addressed in a resolution, are already enshrined in the Government Convention. If you look at the exact demands, you will, I believe, also come to the view that they are quite reasonable and appropriate. I would like to thank Mr Jarolim very much for his general support for this budget. I believe that we can really work very well for the future. Unfortunately, Dr. Fichtenbauer was a victim of speaking times, which are now only available more. I can only tell you one thing, because you meant that the victim aid will only be increased by ten percent: In fact, we're doubling the budget here. We now have 2 million €, which will be spent for the victim aid, for 2007 we have 3.5 million €, and for 2008 we will have 4.5 million €. This is essentially about the new coordination body, about a newly developed victim hotline, more direct assistance to the victim protection associations and more expenditure in the area of process support, which has been very well addressed and where demand is increasing. I do not think there is a need for a shift from parole aid to victim aid. Especially in the case of parole aid, which is very, very important tasks, especially in our common sense, because it is a very, very important institution in the resocialisation of the perpetrators, it would certainly be wrong to save – even in the interests of the security of the population. A subject is certainly also that the clubs should specialize and there should be associations that work in the victim aid, and associations that deal with the perpetrators. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] With Mrs Fekter, I was able to hold a debate on the subject in committee. Here I can only say on your statement that this is a judgment you have referred to is not yet valid. It is an ongoing procedure. That's why I won't give you a comment in any direction. On the procedure of the prosecutors, I ask you to give me a certain period of time. We have no access here to the procedural register to see if something has already been taken into account here. Mr Darmann, who said that the closure of the Jugendgerichtshof would have given rise to savings, I would like to say: That may be at first sight. Only: The costs have been raised in several ways at the National Criminal Court, because the cases have not become fewer, because the young people have not suddenly disappeared, the youth judges, the youth lawyers, the additional judicial guards, which we unfortunately need to increase the number of young people who are now sitting in the National Criminal Court or in the Josefstadt Court of Justice. So they are still there, and their number has also increased significantly. I myself paid a visit to the Josefstadt Justice Centre yesterday. As a Member of Parliament, I have practically renewed the invitation that Minister of Justice, Broda, at the time, addressed to the Members, namely to visit the judicial institutions. I can also repeat this: Look at the conditions there! There are ten young people in a prison room. It all has to be completed in the afternoon, because too few staff are there. The young people then come up with stupid ideas. Then we have processes at the courts in Vienna, where it is about the rape of younger inmates in these cells. So the state of youth performance – despite all the efforts of the staff there, which is excellent; they try to really do the best there under the given building and personnel conditions – is unbearable. We certainly did not have any savings there. I would like to say: We need a Jugendgerichtshof again. He also offers us the possibility that we will have additional execution places that you require. At the location in the Baumgasse we will create at least 350 additional execution sites, with the focus on young people. But probably we will also bring women from the centre of Vienna to this new location. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you for bringing along parts of the relief package. Thank you also for the reference, Dr. Fichtenbauer, to the upcoming European legislation that will make it easier for us to carry out in the country of origin. We are already making use of this and will be able to make even better use of it in the future. But that alone doesn't relieve us enough. That is why I remain in favour of the proposal, which is also shared by many, that we should remember a solution to the citizens who are third-country nationals in the direction that half of the penalty must at least be set aside here, and that we should then ensure voluntary leave, guaranteed by a ban on residence – if that is broken, of course, immediate execution of the rest. We have the following problem – and you all know that from other contexts: We also have third-country citizens with us in the prisons we do not know where they come from. I can do that, even if they have the punishment for We are not aware of the countries from which they come. In these cases, we depend that there is some cooperation here and that the exit is, as it were, voluntary nature, but, of course, secured by a ban on staying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22120	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer's speech. You've done two minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22141	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! We have just seen it, and we finally have a Minister of Justice who is really important to the victims and their rights, and she has already proved this in the last few weeks. This becomes visible in the budget. Overall, the budget for victim aid will be doubled between 2006 and 2008. The Minister has already pointed this out. New is also the fact that the victim protection facilities are no longer politically combated or the existing Institutions shall be provided with senior bodies as to how the FPÖ or BZÖ predecessors/procedures have practised. On the contrary: There will be a new victim hotline, a coordination body for victim assistance, not instead, but with existing facilities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the meantime, the Minister of Justice has concluded contracts with proven bodies for the implementation of the process follow-up so that they can also be safeguarded throughout the whole range. And these costs are also borne by the judicial body. A new crime against long-term violence is planned. The Antistalking Act is being evaluated. The Civil Procedure Order is being amended in such a way that victims of criminal offences are no longer obliged in court to state their place of residence publicly. In civil proceedings, there will be the possibility of gentle witnessing. I can still remember very well how your predecessors all said that it was not because there was too little budget and so on. It's really nice to see: If the political will is there, then it can be implemented, and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also important for me to mention the Minister's plan to extend the interlocutory order for protection against violence in the family from three months to six months in accordance with the Law on the Protection of Violence. Again, your predecessor meant that you would intervene in property rights. That means that she was even more important than protecting people. Minister Berger proves the opposite and proves: If you want, you can also improve a lot in the sense of the victims – in the sense of women and children! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22197	The next item is Mrs Hradecsni's speech. 4 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22220	Madam President. Mrs Bundesminister, I have now been very pleased with your statements, which confirmed that there will be a Youth Court again. Then: In our view, one of the biggest misconceptions of recent years was the closure of the Jugendgerichtshof in 2003 under the then Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer or under the then government of Schüssel, which is responsible for this. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The sensuality of the Jugendgerichtsbehörde was already recognized in the 20s of the last century, because one knew at that time that it was important, above all, to combat youth crime – but not by harsh judgments and by terrible imprisonment experiences, as they have just been described. In view of this – and since we all know this here too – to speak of savings in this context, I find it extremely cynical, but not only cynical, but in no way acceptable. As far as youth crime is concerned, there is still the possibility of socialisation or resocialization. And that should ultimately be the goal: to reintegrate juvenile offenders into society. We don't want to see them locked away for the rest of the time! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig.]] As has been said, we are all the happier now about the decision that the decision taken in the last legislative period, that a second criminal court should be formed, has been amended in favour of a judicial court of the youth. What we are worried about now, however, is what I worry about after the call for tender has already taken place – the fact that a much too large prison is now being set up, with about 540 detentions; at least the press can be found. For young people and women, however, only about half of the prisons are required. How is it then to be ensured that this is actually a youth prison? I think that is a very important question. Another concern is to me, especially as Lower Austrian Members: What plans are there in connection with the Gerasdorf Youth Criminal Centre, which is always the focus of discussions, but whose future is completely open? I'd be interested in that too. To confirm: We are pleased that there will be another Jugendgerichtshof. We are pleased that the ÖVP is also in favour of a new foundation this time. We look forward to this with full confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22272	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22294	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Before I go into the budget and, in particular, the government programme, I would like to say that I am very concerned about the ease with which the Greens, in particular, deal with a very serious situation. [[Abg. Oils: Go, please!]] That we have a chairman of an investigation committee, who is found guilty by a court, please – that is not just any suspicion that stands in the room – of a criminal offence – even if the judgment is not valid, not a question – is already a serious circumstance, and that is, I believe, not so simple and so easily done. Especially the Greens have already expressed requests for withdrawal with much less reason, even if only some suspicion has been expressed somewhere. Please, do this now in your own ranks! Show that these are not just empty words when you call on others and create a very high scale! Do this in your own series! Mr Pilz is supposed to suffer the consequences. As chairman, I think he has become unbearable. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have also been concerned – and I am quite honest with that – that you, Madam President Glawischnig, want to prevent a specific case from being raised here in the field of justice in the debate on the Justice chapter, and believe that this would not be a contribution to the matter. I think it is a long-standing tradition in this House that concrete procedures, up-to-date procedures, are also being made in the case of judicial capitals. But I've never heard that there would ever have been a call to the matter here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me now turn to the budget and, in particular, to the next few years' programme. And I would like to take out a situation or a novel, which we have already decided in 2004 and which has already been referred to today. It is a very important, a profound change in the criminal procedure which occurs at 1. January 2008 will enter into force. With this innovation, important conditions were created to re-install the pre-procedure. As has been said, we have created the prerequisite for this by law. And with these budgets for the years 2007 and 2008, we have also created the conditions of financial and human nature to implement this preliminary process reform, which, I believe, is a very important and correct – even if it is not carried out by all here in the House. My request or my question to you, Mrs Minister, is therefore – after the personnel conditions are created with this budget –: How far have the other preparations been made in your house? I believe that a reform that will make the prosecutor's office the master or the centre of the preliminary proceedings will, of course, also require much information and training work. This will create completely new possibilities for investigation, and the process will be redesigned. Mrs Minister, if you can no longer answer this my question today for reasons of time, I would ask you to send us the answer in writing over the next few weeks or to inform us about how far the preparatory work has been done and what is still planned in this year to really start this preliminary procedure with 1. ==References== I'd be very interested. That would, I think, be very interesting to all of us. – I thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22342	Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, I can draw your attention to the following: Of course, it is permissible to address other issues in the context of a budget debate, but it is on and on usance here in the house that the majority of the speech should be given to the budget. Yesterday, a call was given to the matter, where that was not the case. I stick to the tradition of being here in the house in this sense. The second thing I wanted to clarify briefly: Words such as “open lawbreak ” also led to two calls of order yesterday. I would ask you to do this today. I have exhorted Mrs Fekter – and I have not given a call for order. But you can also handle this more strictly. - That's just for clarification. Thank you. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Haimbuchner. You still have 2 minutes of remaining speaking time of the Group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22378	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I shall now try to deal with the whole of the judicial policy here in a very short time; I am not likely to succeed. I would just like to say one thing for my group, namely that we are very concerned about the security of our country. It is not only that the executive ensures the security of the country, but of course it is also necessary to have a proper judicial system in this regard. I already have to express my dismay at the fact that time and again the forced release is being forced and the situation in Germany is also referred to. Once again, it must be made clear clearly that the German legal system does not know the possibility of partial imprisonment. In Austria, it is almost twice that one can now come to a certain benefit: first of all, that one is partially condemned; and then that one receives a part of the necessary sentence of freedom, which is a part of it. In fact, this is a matter that cannot be supported, considering that a study by Birklbauer and back-resters has shown that within ten years, 40 percent of the sexually released sexual offenders and 43 percent of those who had been released from prison were again subject to criminal penalties! In view of these figures, consideration should not be given to a conditional redundancie, but, on the contrary, to strengthening the criteria for conditional redundancies. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition, it cannot be the task that, when the prisons overrun, we will suddenly force the conditional redundancies. You have to make sure that every perpetrator who is sentenced comes behind the castle and bars! That's one thing you'll definitely have to force. It is also necessary to provide appropriate financial resources for Hie for this – and this budget is far from recognizable. However, I am still very pleased that our judicial guards are doing good work, most of them under very difficult conditions. We thank, above all, the judicial guards who do excellent work under the most difficult conditions. We will not abandon our judicial guards and will also ensure that the country's security will be guaranteed in the future and that every criminal will come behind the castle and bars.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22436	First of all, I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aspock, Dr. Fichtenbauer, has been properly introduced and sufficiently supported, and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22518	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Mulder. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22540	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thankfully, my previous speakers in the Group and the Minister have already given an opinion on the significant improvements in the budget chapter on justice. I would like to take only one point at a very short time, namely the government projects in the field of housing law, in particular the issue of greater legal certainty. There are two areas that need greater legal certainty. One is the point “More legal certainty for single-family houses”. This is also so fixed in the Coalition Agreement, and it is urgently necessary that something is happening. It is true that when the property is sold at a family house, a temporary lease is automatically converted into an indefinite rental contract and then only one month is a notice period. Other areas are not covered here either. This means that legal certainty and a change are absolutely urgent, also in the sense of the tenants and the landlords. A second area in which legal certainty is necessary is the OGH judgment, which occurred in November of the previous year. 39 clauses have been qualified as illegal. A central point of this judgment is the maintenance of spas. This judgment was certainly in the sense of the tenants. A second judgment is expected in the next few days. I think there's certainly a need for action. Legal certainty for both parties is required, and legal clarification is necessary from my point of view. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22573	The next item is the report (one minute) by Mr Oellinger, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22594	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am at the moment quite satisfied with the judicial impulses of Mrs Berger's Federal Minister, but not with what the justice spokespersons of certain political groups give of themselves. Mr Donnerbauer, you as a judge should know how it is with pre-conceptions. I myself have experienced at this point and in this House how Members of your group and the FPÖ groups here – just inside here – have trusted me that I would have thrown stones. Any statement outside this House would not have been possible. I therefore declare to you, Mr Donnerbauer, for Mr Pilz and in his place: Mr Pilz, in a media-political procedure, in a media-legislative, i.e. not in criminal proceedings, has been considered by a preliminary order. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] With an interim order! Some Members of this House are piled up in such proceedings and no one would think of accusing him of a criminal offence! [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the judgment!]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Read the judgment! It's in exactly!]] This is a shame, Mrs Fekter! I say this very clearly to you at this point: It's insanity! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] That's Call Murder! You may be able to live with this policy, but we do not accept this kind of dispute with security, Mrs Fekter.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22688	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). We only had 2 days to think. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Oils.]] Mrs Fekter has spoken on an actual amendment. You know the legal provisions, Mrs Deputies. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22724	Mr Oellinger has just tried to carry out that Mr Pilz would not have violated a criminal law in accordance with this non-legislative judgment. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] I'm actually correcting: The following sentence shall apply: The publication of the invoices on the website "www.peterpilz.at" implements the objective record of the violation of the obligation to provide confidentiality in accordance with § 252 para. 1 Financial Penalty Act. [[Abg. Brosz: Is that legal or not?]] Whoever violates the Financial Criminal Law in this Section is in accordance with professional secrecy according to § 121 para. 1 Criminal code to punish!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22775	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22796	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before I go into the budget chapter on justice: It has now made it clear to Mrs Fekter. I do not want to make a second clarification, but I would also like to ask for the following: All of us who work in committees and committees of inquiry have been explicitly promised by President Prammer to exercise the confidentiality and confidentiality obligations in a consistent manner. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: It doesn't matter to the greens!]] Evident is that the Chairman of the Committee Pilz has violated these obligations of confidentiality in a just-footed, provocative manner. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: provocative!]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: (to Green) Unheard!]] In this way he has done massive damage to the dignity and reputation of the House, among other things. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Prince: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: You don't believe that yourself!]] Since it is obvious that no action has yet been taken by the President of the Council, I call on President Prammer and expect her to take measures against the Member of the Pilz and the Green Group, who aim to see the oath that has been taken and the obvious break down, to have consequences and measures broken down. [[Abg. Ollinger: Talk to ex-president Khol, how he's keeping secret...!]] I would like to address this request to the President and expect that, in view of the honourable Member's reputation, it will also follow it with great consistency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Ask Mr. Khol!]] Now I turn to the budget chapter for justice. One of the issues I would like to highlight in a simple way is the group complaint which is under preparation. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Colleague Fekter regularly suppresses media representatives and journalists!]] Three years ago, with a resolution, we called on the Ministry of Justice to examine the legal possibilities. [[Abg. May. Kogler: We have enough witnesses for these processes! Col. Fekter has harassed APA journalists!]] There is now a draft discussion on the subject. It is clear that although one of the reasons given by the Ministry of Justice for this new form of action is also indicated in terms of the process economy and the saving of procedural and procedural costs, no sizes can yet be available for this budget, as it is only a debate paper. We expect the Minister of Justice to say that if the paper leads to the draft discussion in a government paper that is under review, it will also be called sizes that affect these cost savings. I would now like to make a few suggestions for the further process until an appropriate government template, which, I believe, is essential. In any event, it should be noted that the draft law clearly specifies the conditions for entry into such a procedure and that appropriate obstacles are also installed to avoid the misuse of this law: to extortion comparisons where this is not appropriate. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22965	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit of 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e22986	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! From a social democratic point of view, we can be extremely satisfied with the judicial budget. The fact that this time the judiciary has not become the Eldorado for Savephroth is really a welcome change! We all remember how ex-minister Gastinger had to defend her supported budget. It is a particularly reassuring sign for the regions that the Minister provided an inventory guarantee for the district courts at the beginning of her term of office. A warm thank you for that! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is also positive that the funds for parole aid will be increased. In the past, Austria has noticed that comparatively few conditional redundancies were made – which was partly regretted here – simply because it was not possible for judges to release a prisoner into freedom without accompanying and care. That's where you have to say: As well as our minister has proved himself to be successful in the field of legal aid. [[Calls.]] Victim protection is also a central issue of the new judicial policy, and this is clearly evident in the budget figures. As explained here, substantial improvements are planned. As a accompanying measure, we can also imagine a professional ban on sexual criminals, so that they can not seek the proximity of future victims as teachers, pastors and so on. That is why I am submitting the following motion for a resolution by Mr Jarolim, Mr Fekter, Mr Darmann, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Van den Broek on the ban on sex criminals. The National Council wants to decide: "The Federal Government is requested to: ==References====External links== September 2007 to report on the possibilities of introducing a comprehensive and effective professional ban on sexual offenders for the protection of potential future victims in the area of the federal, federal, municipal, local and other legal persons, in so far as they are acting in enforcement of the laws, in recognised churches, religious societies and religious denominations, as well as in associations and the private sector. 2. After a parliamentary examination of this report, the National Council will be given to the Council until 31 December. On 1 March 2008, a proposal for a law to implement this project, insofar as it concerns the legislation and enforcement of the Federal Government.’ If there is a need for change, changes must be made; if it does not exist, everything should remain as it is. I should also like to say that from this point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23060	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23148	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Sonnberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23169	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to talk about housing and housing promotion and to start with a very urgently needed innovation of the construction contract law in the interests of consumers. Consumers need more safety in this area. There's been a lot of things happening lately. One has to see that the costs are kept within the framework, because ultimately it pays the consumer over and over again. But I think there is a need to improve legal protection for consumers, which is also formulated in the Government Convention. The abolition of rental contract fees will be a matter in the near future, as will the reduction of commissions limits for tenants to be made in cooperation with the relevant professional group. To promote housing itself, I would like to note that a total of €1.78 billion is available. If you count the return flows of the countries, then in a ten-year period, on average, about €2.3 billion is available for housing promotion. The promotion of housing has a stabilising effect on price development and on housing activity. If currently approximately 43 000 housing units are completed per year, approximately 55 000 housing units are to be completed over the next five to ten years – as the Wifo recently formulated – in about 55 000 housing units per year. Residential investment has a very high employment effect. Housing investment of € 1 billion, of € 1 billion in addition, creates up to 12 000 jobs. Employment effects in housing, for example, are one third higher than in private consumption and twice as high as in exports. We must continue to work on the ecologicalisation of housing, through targeted incentives. Some countries are already active in different ways – in the area of new construction, in the rehabilitation area – and there are minimum standards that have already been required. For example, Vorarlberg has already set the passive house standard in the multi-storey residential building. There you have to be careful. Vorarlberg is a relatively small country where a lot is built in the one and two-family area and in the multi-storey area only a few projects are built each year. I am more and more in favour of incentives and not of imposing measures, but still believe that minimum standards must be required and that this is partly done quite successfully by the countries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A few words on the topic of thermal rehabilitation: The quota should be increased from 2 to 5 percent. I think above all of the single and two-family houses. There are over 600 000 single and two-family houses which were built until 1985, with relatively high energy requirements. We should also consider incentive systems: either in the form of tax incentives or in the area of building savings financing with corresponding annuities grants. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Let's change the control system]] There are quite some considerations as to how we can ultimately boost the economy and how the Kyoto target can be achieved through such measures. I think we're on a good path, but in the next few years we still have a lot of work ahead of us. Let's do it together!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23231	The next item is Mrs Ablinger's speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23253	Madam President. High house! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! I refer to a proposal which you have announced and which is already in place in the Government Agreement. It's about the Maintenance Advancement Act. We have 17 percent of the single parents who don't have any entertainment at all. 50 percent of single parents do not receive regular maintenance payments, although they are entitled to them. As a result, 50 percent of single parents are acutely poor and 17 percent of single parents are vulnerable to poverty. This makes it clear that something has to be done here urgently. Only recently was a public prosecutor broadcast in the ORF, in which it was shown that a woman had to wait four years until she received a payment at all. – Reasons: In part, fathers dispute paternity or, as it were, repeatedly question the basis of calculation. This is detrimental to the children who are driven into poverty over this situation. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! We discuss the minimum security for adults. In this respect, we should also discuss minimum child security. I think the presentation should ensure that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23292	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23313	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to address the areas of victim protection and victim aid, and I would like to point out that the protection of victims has not only existed since this government, Mrs Stadlbauer, but that this has always been a major concern of the two previous governments under the German Chancellor's court. Since 2002, a number of measures have been taken to provide concrete assistance to victims. A decisive step has been taken through the reforms of the Law on the Protection of Violence and the Law on Criminal Procedure. In early 2004, a reform of the Anti-Violence Act came into force, extending the protection of persons. Thus, among other things, the privilege of rape in marriage was lifted and the crime of sexual harassment was created. By regulating a central protection file, the executive was given another instrument to protect against violence in the family. Since then, there is a hotline that those affected can contact at any time of day and night to help them get professional help free of charge. Recently, in turn, we have seen a great deal of cruel reports about forced prostitution, abrasion and trafficking in human beings. On the subject of trafficking in human beings, we know that this crime is primarily affecting women and children. Worldwide, it is estimated that up to 2 million women and girls are towed annually and are forced to prostitution. What people's dealers and pay for it is incredible. The estimates amount to approximately €30 billion a year. There must be more control over this! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] With the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the control of trafficking in human beings in May 2005, we have demonstrated to Austrians that it is serious for us to act quickly against trafficking in human beings. Thus Austria has also been confirmed in a report from the US State Department on trafficking in human beings that we are very far ahead in the area of criminal prosecution, protection and prevention of trafficking in human beings. That's gratifying! However, the budget figures are also pleasing. We heard from Mrs Berger earlier that the budget for the victim aid had been doubled. Over the last few years, the budget for victim aid facilities has continued to increase. In 2007, an amount of €3.5 million is now planned, and in 2008 there will be € 5.5 million for the protection of victims. These figures are pleasing, especially because you know that the need for support is very great. No one can conclude the issue of victim protection, especially in the area of trafficking in human beings. This is a particularly loathsome form of exploitation and organised crime – and here we must not stop working on. I am convinced that we are on the right path to provide adequate support to victims.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23366	The next item is Mrs Rudas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23389	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The past six years have been more marked by a depoliticisation of justice policy. If we are on the subject of Jugendgerichtshof, this was an example: All the experts were against it, but the old government decided to close an important Court of Justice. This was not just about closing a small court, but about a trend change in criminal law. It abolished all the mildness towards young people, namely those young people whom they needed in particular. But it also abolished the further development, the further reflection on it and the further review of the Jugendgerichtheit and the Jugendführungsbereich. This has enormous effects on young people – I don't think I need to do that here – on individual fates that were actually affected. At last, however, this depoliticisation of justice policy has ended, with a minister who shows that law can also lead to justice. Of course, I am very happy that there will be the re-establishment of a youth centre as part of a youth competence centre, because it is also a social policy signal, namely that we do not abandon young people, even if they are not well, even though they have something “eat out” and are in trouble. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Mr Darmann, Mrs Berger has already given an opinion on the cost question. I would just like to add that it is also possible to reduce the costs incurred by young people who have become penalised again, which can be saved both for victims and for young people to be resocialized early on and to help them. Finally, I would like to quote someone who has to be quoted in the Chapter on the Court of Justice of the Youth, because he simply showed great commitment, namely Udo Jesionek, the former President of the Jugendgerichtshof, who said that justice can not only persecute people but also develop utopia. In this sense, I am already looking forward to the new youth competence center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23438	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. – The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Wittmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23460	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! In principle, it is to be said that in many areas it brings improvement. In particular, in order to mention it briefly, improved approaches are to be found in the area of victim assistance and in the field of probation aid. However, it seems particularly important to me to improve the budgetary approach of the Supreme Court, which receives a significant increase in staff costs: from 9.9 million to 10.4 million and then to 10.8 million euros. I believe that it is time to extend the staff costs of the Supreme Court in order to give it the opportunity to know. (ii) to promote the development of the Community's economic and social cohesion policy; This is a highly necessary and so far absent measure, which is now being finally corrected. I also believe that it is important to spend more money on judicial institutions. This is a long-term demand, but it has not been taken into account in the last budgets. It is of course remarkable that the judicial system brings back two thirds of its own expenditure. If the judicial institutions were to be calculated, justice would be given itself by means of their incomes! This is remarkable because there is no such “self - holding amount” in other resorts. A few words on criminal law, because it's my heart: I believe that it will also be necessary to anchor the prosecutor's office as an expression of the state's indictment monopoly in the Constitution, namely as a body of justice in the Constitution. I believe that there is also a development and a gradual approach in this direction. Of course, it would also be desirable to install a non-profit state attorney. I think there will be more problems with the coalition partner. But this is, of course, a requirement that we must continue to discuss in order to achieve a result. If one is already dealing with the reform of the main proceedings in criminal law, then one should also reform the oath procedure. You should not think about how to abolish it, but you should improve it. It is a kind of democratic judicial approach. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, one should introduce rights of rejection for the prosecutor's office and rights of refusal for the defence. You should make the law public. A written statement should also be requested. Then one would have an approach to further developing the swearing procedure. This democratic approach should continue to be kept in criminal law. – I do not consider any of the demands for the abolition of the oath procedure. In this sense: a good budget, and in many approaches in the right direction!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23524	The next speaker was Mr Köfer. You too took 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23545	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Incredible, but true: In 2001, a third of the Carinthian judges still did not have their own PC available, and it was not only Carinthian judges who were excluded from the most banal technique at that time, but it was most of the Carinthian population who became victims of a wretched wave of proceedings. The wave of closure of smaller district courts at that time, such as in Eisenkappel, Ferlach or Bleiburg under the then Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer, was also a completely indispensable charge against the rights of the bilinguality that were normed in the Constitution. The saving of judges and judicial guards was also an integral part of his reform concept for Minister Böhmdorfer, and the number of 3.223 million days of detention in 2006 is then an increase of this “reform”. In the previous year, this represents a new record value for prisoners in the history of our Republic. In return, however, there was also an incredible addiction. At the time, countless images were purchased for public space, such as Helmut Ditsch’s “Patagonische Eisberg” picture of “Patagonische Eisberg” and 1.8 million schilling for the Spittal District Court on Drau. As mayor I am of course pleased about it, but that would not have been necessary. However, it is all the more gratifying that Mrs Berger's current positive budget development is under Ms. Justice Minister. At this point, I would also like to thank all the judicial guards for their work in an unusually difficult profession. But you can only understand their situation properly if you have experienced everyday life in these Austrian prisons even personally. As part of my training at the Austrian Federal Army, I had the opportunity to get to know these working conditions – and I am convinced that the current judicial budget will bring a significant relief to the demanding activity in criminal execution.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23582	The next item is the speech by Mr Pendl. You've done 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23603	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the end of a long budget debate, I would like to make a few clarifications. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: A nice sound!]] [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] First of all, I would like to thank and congratulate you very much on your staff, Mrs Bundesminister Berger, but also on the entire judicial staff. I believe that we already have a long tradition of good cooperation with the judicial community here in the house, and, even if they say, there too little, there too much: The budget is better than the last budgets in the field of justice, which is a fact. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP, Bravorufe at SPÖ.]] That's a fact: We're all very, very happy about that. We have the effort to do so, we have the staff effort, and there is no need to discuss much, even if my heart – and I am forgiven – is naturally being beat for the judicial guard. We have more staff in the judicial area, in the public prosecutor's department, in the special area and in the guard area. And now we only have to do something about it, and everyone is invited, ladies and gentlemen, to debate in the Committee on Justice, so that we can implement the necessary legislative measures. Mrs Berger, and our thanks for the right analysis of the state of justice and, above all, in execution, thank you for taking the time to look at the difficult situation on the ground – yesterday you were in the Vienna-Josefstadt judicial centre. You have discussed with your colleague, and I am convinced that, accordingly, you will also have the right conclusions and impressions... – I invite you once, I have said it for a long time: [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Go into a prison, look at this! Some don't even know about passing by. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Lens: We're going to visit the mushroom!]] - It's just on the verge of this scumbag! It's not useful, it's not gonna be any better. Are we glad that we brought together a good budget for justice, I tell you! [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] I think it is very, very serious that it is very difficult in the Austrian execution facilities, and I said first yesterday: Let us not forget, it is our colleagues who are holding our heads together for all of us. We have a great responsibility here, and we therefore have to relieve them. [[Abg. Murauer: He's right!]] This is not a question at all, Madam President, and I assume that we will also bring something together. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes!]] Well, that's how I'd mean tonight. In this sense, I would like to share the strength that we will also take the necessary measures in the judicial committee meetings and, finally, decide here. In this sense, I invite everyone to work and fight for our justice, but, of course, for the execution. For today I thank you for your attention, wish you a safe home, a nice evening and a good night's rest!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23723	Mrs Berger has now been reported to speak. I'll give it to her with this. – A little more calm, please, so she doesn't have to scream like that! Mrs Bundesminister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23744	High house! I apologise for having interrupted the good mood that Mr Pendl has now given me, a little bit with some corrections, which are still important to me at the end of the day, or perhaps the mood must make a little less funny again. On the question Gerasdorf, because it is here in the room that the fate of the Gerasdorf judicial institution is uncertain. – That’s not true at all! The Gerasdorf Court of Justice, with its focus on the execution of the youth sentence, works very well, I was already there: an excellent leadership, very dedicated staff and great success in the resocialisation of young people. So: This institution will be preserved. Mr Donnerbauer has already asked for the StPO reform in committee and here again. I can confirm here once again that it is now taken from the personnel side the provision, on the planning side. The recordings are carried out gradually. In the field of computer interfaces with the police, we have the corresponding cooperations and precautions, the training is on high-speed tours, and we also want to avoid double-tracking and multiple acquisitions of police and prosecutors. The accompanying legislation, which is still necessary, will soon come to your house. I would also like to say here that it is a special concern to me to strengthen the public prosecutors in general. We are considering measures in the field of service rights, there will also be proposals in the framework of state reform to anchor the indictment monopoly, as mentioned by Mr Wittmann. Of course, there will be proposals from us. However, the reform of the main and legal proceedings, which will also include the jury's jurisdiction, will have to wait a little longer. We now want to take this first step in great care, so that the success of this reform is guaranteed. Since the resulting dismissal was once again referred to as a security threat, I would like to give some indications about this: We have very large regional differences in the handling of the conditional redundancies in Austria: In West Austria it is used more than in Eastern Austria. I do not think anyone dares say here that Tirol is more uncertain than Vienna. We have very good experience from Switzerland; if the German example appears to be too little gripping. I was able to say this in the debate at the last National Council meeting here: The best guarantee, especially for sexual offenders, is therapy. We really come down there with the relapse rates, where we can offer good therapies. There are quite significant successes, and these therapies can only be continued, in part, after discharge, if it is a conditional dismissal. Only then can it be ensured that, for example, treatment measures continue to be taken by conditions et cetera. On the group complaint, Mr Ikrath: Of course, we will take all measures to ensure that this cannot be used improperly, and the claim here is to make savings for all those involved, and for all those involved, that is, for ourselves. That is our own interest, so to speak, and it will certainly be taken care of. On the question of the Ablinger Member on the Maintenance Advancement Act: Of course, the figures are correct. There are huge gaps. We can only advance where there is a maintenance title at all. Where this does not exist, the current rules are not sufficient. This is where the new basic guarantee would have to take place. I can also announce here that tomorrow, together with my colleague in the government, Mrs Family Minister, I will present our common approach to this whole family law package at a press conference. Mr Köfer referred to the bilingual jurisdiction in Carinthia. So, it's a special concern to me, and for that very reason, I think we should certainly not close individual, though very small, district courts there. I would like to expressly support everything that has been said here in support of the judicial guard and the difficult work that the judiciary has to do. I would like to extend this thanks to you. Reply Thank you: I would like to thank you for the good debate – and I would like to thank my officials from the Ministry of Justice, who are my “deputies” helpers.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23813	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reported in the word anymore. The deliberations on the subject of justice have thus ended. I am now interrupting the session by Thursday, 26th. April 2007, 9 o'clock. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the budget chapter on the economy and work will continue. The sitting was suspended. [[20:40:59]] [[The meeting was held on Wednesday, 25 May. April 2007, at 8.41 p.m. and on Thursday, 26 April 2007. On 9 April 2007, continued at 9.01 a.m.]] [[09:01:02]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 26. April 2007, 9.01 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23867	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I welcome all of you very much. I'll take the interrupted 21. National Council meeting again. Deputies Dr. Hlavac, Mag. Arbitrator, Mandak, Mag. Weinzinger, Ing. Hofer, Mag. Stadler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23897	I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Günther Platter. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23931	The following speaking times have been set for today's session day, which has already been decided yesterday: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and FPÖ per 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. [[09:02:12]] Economy and work Chapter 63: Economy and work
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23958	We continue in the negotiations of the 2007 and 2008 budget. The Economic and Labour Section, Chapter 63, will now be consulted. The first speaker is Mr Mag. Kogler. 8 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e23985	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As the economic and labour chapters make up a relatively small part of the smaller economic agents, at least quantitatively, it will probably be useful to talk about economic policy in general and what the budget structure has to do with the economic policy framework. I really see this chapter as an opportunity, without great mutual polemics, to analyze a few things, to have a respectful look at where there are overlaps or where, in reality, there were said earlier: Ideology – if you want to, there are in-depth, ideological differences. However, we could agree that an agenda has been presented which will probably provide much more guidance for the economic policies of the coming years than this budget, namely the Wifo White Paper on the autumn of Last year. I believe that we have not yet debated or honoured this in the House. This kind of discussion or discussion would also allow this rather constructive economic dialogue to be conducted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] We will do this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. If the chairman of this committee invites me to speak kindly provocatively, then I can take a point of view. I believe that in autumn, when everything has calmed down, even on the government bank, if it is quite clear who on the government bank now wants to make opposition, who is more often going to the hairdresser, who else appears and who adjusts the areas in the newspapers with various activisms, when this is explained, then can talk about this agenda of the Wifo White Paper. I encourage a serious and a rather large survey here in the house. This once again in the light of the fact that I believe that this will provide much more guidance where the journey could take place in the next few years – in our opinion, it would even have to be. The Wifo has presented a programme for two years. Some things – many things, we would like to say almost – are covered by the green economic programme. Mr Federal Minister, if you stand up for this dialogue, you will experience it, but you often do not come where you should be. But it's never too late, we don't give up hope. At such a survey we will probably be able to expect you too. In the matter itself. In advance – because I accept what the following speakers will say –: I give right to all those who say it's not all bad with God in Austria. The statistical comparisons, at least in the old typology, show us relatively far ahead here in many lead indices, but spare me that I agree to say exactly where we are again, or that I now have to deal with this Jargon with three times in each sentence “future fit”, which you have maintained here since the last legislative period. Let us understand that God is not all bad. Some things have been quite successful, the data are at least such that you can build on it. That's undisputed. If you look at what Austria is for an economic area, what it really makes sense in 2007 to do as if we had created all this on our own, or – in reverse terms – where the so-called national areas of play are, as it is said in economic policy, there are questions here. To trace these scopes is indeed the task of economic policy. Where can Austria still be opposed to developments that, as a rule, – at least if one can believe all the contributions here in the House – not always be positively assessed as regards developments in international markets and the like? But if it is, then – he is not there yet – the clubman of the ÖVP, then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, has yet to be stopped, because we have agreed to discuss the whole thing along the budget developments. He has known yesterday mildly that there are also mild anticyclic effects in this budget. This is a finding we share – for the first time since long. That is what happened, I think, not even intended. I can tell you how this came about: because we have just decided on a double budget after the election. In the meantime, the eco-political credo of the EIA is more likely to be the way in which taxes are at least still increased after the election. Let's talk about it. In a similar way, it proceeds in such a way that, just before the next elections, tax reforms – “reform” according to its definition is some sort of reduction – are carried out, which also means that we do not consciously have an anticyclic budget policy, but simply and decisively tactic budget cycles. It's that simple. The best example is the year 2001 when one could see that an economic downturn has already been announced, but Austria has pushed on the restrictive tube very massively here – with the corresponding effects. In this way, too, the supposedly so legendary zero deficit has come about. So it's not supposed to be anymore. If we open the perspective for the years 2008, 2009 and 2010, it will probably have to be different. And if the term “reform” has a meaning, then on the tax side the revenue structure of the budget is probably the one that looks where the major weaknesses of the Austrian tax structure are. . Let's leave the expenditure out of it now. It is quite obvious that we are far too high in the pay-related taxes – just too world champions, apropos Benchmarking. We are at the property-related taxes – even if you don't like to hear that – at the bottom, at the back, depending on how you want to see it. And we are increasingly backward in the ecological elements of the tax structure. – This is once the starting result. If we want to counter this effectively, then, of course, reform can also be called structural reform, and then it is clear what it is all about, because we finally have to reduce wage-related taxes, vulgo wage-side costs. But the terms are not completely identical. Only, Minister of State, you will have to say where the money comes from. In one point we obviously do not differ: that at least we are not, kind of more or less friendly to populism – I am more likely to have this suspicion at SPÖ; at the ÖVP it is still ideologically motivated – to stand down and say that the tax and tax rate must be lower, cost it, economically, what it wants. If you don't write about this populism, you will obviously have to restructure when you come up, because the expenditure side also wants to be covered – and there is enough need to finance, as you, especially by the Social Democrats, always explain to us. You should finally confess that it is nonsense to fall back on capital taxes, just because it fits into the populist concept. This is, by the way, the word “performance principle” – we can still agree on that, because “tax justice”, you do not like it; “Justice” is a difficult term at all, I give you the right. But if that is the case, it would be very helpful if we could see that we could achieve some 100 million sizes there and not let them “outside” at the window, and, in return, either reduce taxes that are far too high in Austria or do so, so that the deficit does not become too high. – This is the serious difference, and this is also something in the economic policy approach. In this context, they have committed themselves to populism, we still confess to it: There is nothing to give, the budget is not a self-service shop, even for the ÖVP – I am now missing the approaches of the SPÖ – and you should simply enter into a dialogue honestly. I am excited whether the initiative is being taken up, that we will hold an economic survey here in autumn on the agenda of the Wifo White Paper. That would be a great step forward!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24079	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24100	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! “It’s good for the economy, it’s good for people,” you’ve certainly heard more often. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I take from your reaction, ladies and gentlemen, that you did not really understand the slogan, let alone understand it, because – in order to live up to the intellectual claim now – you just need to turn it around: Is there a country in this world where people do well if the economy does not work? [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: No!]] – Please answer the question, and then we will be quite agreed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek:... the income shears...!]] On the one hand, I already have to admit to you one thing: In my opinion, why the slogan is so incriminated has to do with the fact that many people have the impression that our businesses are making huge profits – the small and medium-sized enterprises are different – and the redistribution would – that is the subjective, emotional impression – not reach the individual to the extent. Perhaps, on the other hand, when we talk about the budget, we have sometimes given the impression that we always have to save – in the area we have too little, in another area we have too little – and that as the seventh-richest country in the world. Even when it comes to globalisation, one or the other has the impression: We are flooded with products from abroad! And there it is well, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday was the export day of the Chamber of Commerce, where all 72 trade delegates from all over the world were present and we found: 107 billion € in exports. – That's great! We are the European champion in export, and that is what speaks for the strength of the domestic economy! On the one hand, this also says that the slogan is correct and that we do not need to fear globalisation, on the other hand, one must of course, if one continues this thought, see one thing: that the economy is not a self-trailer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reheat]] I have the impression that speaking of economic and economic growth today, everyone says: Yeah, yeah, all right, but don't want to do anything for it. Because we celebrated this export day yesterday, I believe that we must use it – that is the only point where I agree with Werner Kogler, otherwise nothing else – and that we have to shape the national framework conditions accordingly. In particular, I see in the foreground the area of export, internationalization. The Committee was asked: There is an amount of 13 million going to the Chamber of Commerce – does the Chamber of Commerce need to be supported? On the contrary: We are not being promoted, but the amount goes towards export and is doubled by us! In other words, we have put millions of euros in exports in recent years – with the following result: One, the number, I have already mentioned, the other is that the middle class could also be motivated towards export. We have opened up new markets to motivate new businesses. This follows – as it is today in the “Panorama” of the “Press” – as follows: Craftsmanship is a good ground, but the market is not only in Austria, not only in the domestic area, the market lies in the future, and the market is mainly because we use the creative mechanisms. In this context, I think that we have the right structure in the budget area, and I thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point. I also believe that we need to take advantage of the opportunities that are open to us in time. I therefore welcome the fact that if we are already in the window of sport next year, the 2008 European Football Championship will be used to set up a location initiative to keep the economy in line with the needs of the industry. It is then up to the economy to use the appropriate framework conditions. The third thing is: Economy is always working with people, so I think it is very right that the sector of business and work is still an area and that it has not been separated. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we have declining unemployment rates, and this speaks again for the slogan “Economics and work belong together” and that especially the apprenticeship sector is also given a corresponding importance. [[Abg. Riepl:... Your logic not! ... numbers of unemployed!]] Mr President, I do not know why you are so excited about this, it is a programme of success and nothing defensive. - Please? – Over the past seven years, we have had an international economic crisis, while Austria has remained amazing and delivered the best figures in the international environment. [[Abg. Riepl: What has been in the last seven years?]] [[Abg. Riepl: What has been in the last seven years?]] This is a good performance of the domestic economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When we look at this overall, especially what is happening to the labour market and apprentices, with the new construction also the reception networks, with the possibility of also canceling teaching contracts: This sounds counterproductive, but in reality it will open up the market, reducing the thresholds, because everyone who is being terminated has the guarantee that he will have to get another training option. Ladies and gentlemen! Summary: It is actually a narrow area, which is budgeted here, but it is an area that sets the right framework for the domestic economy, both in the area of export and internationalisation and in the area of jobs and innovation. That is, we are very well placed with the budgetary possibilities we have. – The domestic economy will use it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24235	I call Mr Themessl. Requested time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24256	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I have to give my previous speaker, Dr. Mitterlehner: If the economy is going well, people are fine. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Mitterlehner, also asked: Do you know a country where it is not? I can tell you that there are a number of countries in the EU that are much better because they have made much more out of very good conditions over the last two or three years. You just don't come around... [[Abg. Grandruck: Who?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Yeah, I know. You know, if ten ÖVPs are excited, if I give a speech on economic policy here, I know that I am 100 percent secure. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you should actually think if, in the meantime, the Greens as a women's, environmental and asylumist party criticise the EIA's economic policy: Then you're really wrong, you can believe me! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the Greens: This is such a humbug!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that in Austria, economic growth is around 3 per cent, and in EU top countries, it is between 4 and 5 per cent. The unemployment rate – as you calculate it – is about 4.5 to 5 per cent of us, and in top countries of the EU it is well below 4 per cent – that is to be read. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Do you want Romanian level? Romania and Bulgaria?]] Mainly responsible for this is the fact that the purchasing power does not go as far as in other countries. Why? – Because we still have additional labour costs, which are more than 9 percent above the EU average, above the EU-15 average, and not the EU-27, otherwise we would still be miles further away than is the case anyway; and, of course, because the people who work who are diligent, the middle class, the small and medium-sized enterprises remain much less than in the EU's top-ranking countries. That's a fact you just don't come around! They always try statistics: But if you look at the statistics of the EU, you will find that we are not at the forefront! We may be the first in the second third, that may be already. But first of all to be in the EU, as Mr Molterer has announced in his budget speech, is just a pious wish! I also hope that we will succeed. But then you have to change your economic policy! Mr Bartenstein, perhaps She remembers that a sketch was performed at the opening of the Dornbirn Fair last year: That's what they asked: Who's the man who just talked? Then came the answer: This is the Federal Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs. That's where the cabaret asked: How do you do that? I can either work, or I'm in business. – I say to you: Obviously, this isn't going along with you either! They cannot work and at the same time be in the economy. That's why it would probably be better for you to share the resort! But your friends from the SPÖ were not willing to take up the field of work, so you will sit on it! So make something out of it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact is, our purchasing power is falling. There is a Wifo study, according to which real wages in 2006 are below the average of 1997. Therefore, we must not be surprised that the purchasing power does not jump to the extent that it should actually jump, because you still take too much money out of your hands to the people! I'll tell you: If you do not support small and medium-sized enterprises more strongly in the future and break them away from us, then one of the most important economic columns of this country will break us away! They know that over two thirds of all businesses in Austria are small and medium-sized enterprises and most of them are enterprises with less than ten employees. This employs 1.7 million people in Austria; there are 3.1 million jobs in total; we show your new statistics. In recent years, they have only been lobbying for the large industry and for large businesses. This also proves your 2005 tax reform, which admittedly was not bad, but which, as has been said, shows that you are doing only a lobbying for the large industry. I would like to give you an example from my federal state of Vorarlberg: The company Doublemayr – lifts, ski lifts and so on – which will probably be a term for everyone, employs more than 600 suppliers from the SME sector in Vorarlberg. That is, small businesses supply the company Doublemayr. And you know what happens if you don't support these small businesses and don't get under the arms of them? - Then they break away! But then the great one dies. In the animal world it may work that the big one eats the little one, because mice, rats or rabbits probably get a dozen boys or more three times a year. Small businesses, on the other hand, do not grow like mushrooms from the soil, and if the economy in Austria and you, Federal Minister, in the future are not able to provide small and medium-sized enterprises – as soon as possible, and not only with a announced tax reform in 2010! – to relieve, then we are in danger of one of the most important sectors of the Republic breaking away! I'll tell you something. They collect taxes not only from workers, but above all from employers who are more than cost-effective, and I wonder where the money disappears. – I will give you a few examples: In this year – and in the last year it was similar – revenue from unemployment insurance and the amount of cash in the amount of € 4.5 billion is planned. This is compared with expenditure of €3.5 billion. A surplus of more than one billion € will be generated from these contributions alone! That's what I'm asking myself: What holes do you make that disappear? Similarly, the AUVA and the insolvency contribution are: More than €100 million of surpluses were generated last year. These are taxes that concern only the service provider and you are not able – although you know that we are 9 percent above the EU average in the case of additional wage costs! – to reduce these costs in order to make small and medium-sized enterprises more competitive and also to enable them to provide more jobs than has been the case so far. You're not doing anything! And if In times of a high economy or a good economy last year, you have made €5.7 billion more of revenue, but you are not now able to achieve a balanced budget and make a tax reform, I wonder: When do you want to do this? Do you think that's what's going on? I can't imagine! Today's economic policy is an impossibility to introduce tax reform or tax relief for small and medium-sized enterprises in the range of €3 to €4 billion in 2010! Why don't you start with this now, so that a tax reform will take effect next year and, above all, will relieve small and medium-sized enterprises? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They, like SPÖ, promised to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises in the campaign. But now you create additional loads! We have already experienced this in the course of the debate on the budget accompanying laws. The increase in mineral oil tax alone, for example, is taxed on the transport industry. In addition, there is a massive load because you plan to lift the truck toll. Do you know that a transporter per truck per year is now burdened with additional costs of €2 500 to €3 000? This is not feasible for the transport industry! This, of course, depends on transport costs: Who'd you like to pay for this? This makes all consumer goods more expensive, and that in turn concerns the “little man. ” You're to blame for this! If you would have the honesty to handle with effective figures, we would not have to ask how the unemployment rate is calculated, for example. On the basis of the latest statistics from the Federal Ministry of Finance, I explained yesterday that there is a workforce potential in Austria – self-employed and self-employed – of 3.5 million jobs. According to these state-of-the-art statistics, we have an unemployment rate of 237 000 in Austria at the end of March 2007. In addition, Mr Federal Minister, you will be right for me that the persons reported about the AMS of not quite 60 000 – 59 000 and a few squeaks – are not yet in the work process. That is to say, according to AMS statistics and statistics of the Federal Ministry of Finance summa summa under the line 296,000 unemployed in Austria. In view of this, I asked myself: How do you achieve an employment potential of 3.5 million and an effective unemployment rate of almost 300 000 to a figure of 4.5 or 4.7 percent? - I was wondering how you calculate that. In the meantime I know, and I thank you for your answer! It's sensational how you calculate unemployment rates! And if I still assume that the case must be the case across the EU, I have to tell you: I'm grey! They determine and calculate the unemployment rate by means of surveys and samples! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's incredible!]] There is a definition of unemployment in the questionnaire of questions with the following criteria: “Without work”, “active job search” and “promot availability”. And now the hammer is coming: The unemployment rate is calculated on the basis of the above-mentioned potential of 3.5 million jobs for self-employed and self-employed workers, with persons who worked at least one hour before the survey and with family workers as employees! With this in mind, it is clear to me why, in the case of 300,000 unemployed people and a total employment potential of 3.5 million, you come to an unemployment rate of 4.7 percent! [[Abg. That's where it's tricked! This is an uplifting of the unemployed!]] If you were honest, you would say here that the unemployment rate is definitely between 7 and 8 percent and it is fast time to do something! Get a heart, and have a little courage! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I hope that the ÖVP, which is obviously no longer available, will eventually become active again. Then the small and medium-sized enterprises would be helped, and you could relieve the middle class. But now you're making an attack on the middle class. They operate an extermination campaign against small and medium-sized enterprises and thus against the medium-sized enterprises that support our economy significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24398	The next point is Mr Bauer. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24421	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, I come directly to my previous speaker: It is of course an experience to discover, so to speak, Eurostat statistics. [[Abg. That's not social! That's social!]] However, it is simply a fact that we also have to go to Eurostat in Austria to make comparisons. [[Abg. The statistics have nothing to do with social responsibility!]] We know, however, that there is also an Austrian statistics, which is slightly different from that. But I do not want to go into this now. I would like to discuss something about the statement “the business’s good, it’s good for people”. – In principle, such a discussion does not lead to anything, because it cannot be assumed that, if the economy is doing well, it will also be good for people. However, the economy is undoubtedly an important basis for the implementation of distribution policy. Especially in recent years, it has been shown that there has been no corresponding growth in the flourishing economy in large areas, for example, because domestic demand has been far too weak, and especially the lower incomes, which are becoming immediate consumption-effective, have been weakened. We know, because the Wifo experts took this into account: If the lower fifth of the income earners have a 19 percent reduction in income and if the second fifth of the income earners have less than 11 percent, then simply set an impulse to get the lower income referees back to the purchasing power needed for a long-term security of the good economy as we now experience it. To the export results: Mr Mitterlehner, of course we are proud of this export success. 107 billion € means we've run through the sound line of 100. But that also means something else, namely the competitiveness of the Austrian economy. If there is always a pity about the additional wage costs and talk about their breakdown, I say: Competitiveness is the best proof that one gains competition over labour costs and not about the distribution of labour costs. Nevertheless, I am convinced that it is necessary to open up the discussion on how we can gradually reduce labour costs as regards the method of settlement, because there must also be an objective of achieving full employment. This means creating transitions to value added taxes, because everything else is simply a dead end in the high technological economy. I mean, you should talk about it openly! I would like to address a number of matters relating to the transparency of the place of business or some of the positions of this place of business. – If you look at the documents, you can read about grants to the economy here, and it is very pleasant that they are marked with €17 million, which is ultimately a doubling. But if you want to take a closer look at what's going on, you'll find out nothing. I then sought further and thought that this might happen over the AWS. But even at the AWS you do not know, but it is only indicated the increase. I believe that this should be a little more comprehensible in the sense of transparency. The promotion of the external economy will be carried out exclusively through the Chamber of Commerce in the future. This is not to be rejected in principle, but one should know that this reorganisation of the foreign economy is export promotion, which is ultimately exclusively distributed and managed by the WKO, and ultimately does not go to Parliament under any circumstances. In this sense, the discussion should be kept open and the appropriate transparency, Mr Federal Minister, should also be ensured. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24471	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24492	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! It is very gratifying to be able to look forward to a fact as an opposition politician at this point, namely the fact that our economy is booming. However, the 2007 good economic data are based on the good performance and planning of the previous years, in which the BZÖ was significantly involved. For example, unemployment has fallen sharply, skilled workers are urgently needed, and 800 people from the new EU countries are even wanted to be collected. Mr Federal Minister, the latter really cannot be your intention, because there are more than 4,000 young people without a apprenticeship in Austria, and the number of jobseekers will continue to increase with this school degree. What it means to a youth and what it means to him is that if he does not get a job or a apprenticeship, I think it is difficult to understand. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! I call on you to become active and to do more in the apprenticeship sector! I know there is the Blum premium that you want to continue paying until 2008, and the federal government is contributing €1,000 a year, but more needs to be done as the situation looks! Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you are acting on your clients, the entrepreneurship, one, more apprentices, because only when companies and economic operators are willing to train apprentices will there be no shortage of skilled workers later! Especially you of the ÖVP should be able to convince companies that not everything can come from the state, but that it corresponds to a Christian social attitude to train young people! Ladies and gentlemen! For example, if someone wants to be a good donor, mason, carpenter or electrician, then the craftsmanship requires, but not necessarily a preferred certificate. You have to give the apprentices the opportunity to learn something, you also have to review the legal framework here, because it cannot be that a spengler instructor should not get up on the roof to assemble a sheet metal. [[Abg. Riepl: He can also climb to the roof!]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You have to use it meaningfully first! Ladies and gentlemen, it should be the highest bid that male and female school leavers will ultimately not be on the street. Those who do not already receive a teaching place should at least be admitted to a teaching workshop, and the Federal Government is required to use these facilities even more widely. Mr. Minister! In the professional year, the link between entrepreneurs and school needs to be intensified in order to give apprentices the opportunity to determine for themselves what they are suitable for and what they want to do or want to do. Only from well-trained apprentices can become good professionals. Mr Federal Minister, if you are all against the fact that there is too little budget for this, I can only give you one tip: Go past the AMS, where a lot of money is spent on pointless training! Mr Minister, I would like to address another problem. My previous speaker has already mentioned it: I only mention ‘active foreign trade policy’ in the budget. Support for an export offensive in 2006 with over 15 million will be set to zero next year. – I don’t understand this at all and may read to you the following: ‘Recording in domestic current account. The domestic foreign economy has achieved a new record result in 2006 – with € 8.2 billion (three percent of economic performance) even the highest surplus in its history, reports the Austrian National Bank." But what are you doing? – This is remarkable: They will give the money next year to the Chambers of the Industrial Economy, and without any commitment to that end. I don't know. Are these hidden subsidies? [[Abg. Parnigoni: What you hide! A little under the pillow?]] Are the hidden funds you don't want to reveal? Does the Chamber of Labour also get money from it? Federal Minister! Please note: Money only fulfills its purpose if it is used in the right place. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I should like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24563	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been properly tabled, is also sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24615	Mr Bartenstein has now been reported to speak. Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24636	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Schalle, I can You calm down: Of course – we would be crazy not to do that! – the internationalisation offensive will continue, of course it will continue to be taught. It is only because of this that the 2007 budget does not contain an actual approach, because we will deal with this from reserves. A budgetary dispensation is only planned for 2008. But the funds will flow, both in 2007 and 2008 respectively, € 16 million, ensuring the continuation of the Internationalisation Plan. Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, every young person in Austria who is looking for an apprenticeship also has the opportunity to get such a teaching place. Among other things, the Blum-Bonus has been a background to the fact that more courses are offered in turn. After years of decline, the number of apprenticeships, teaching contracts, both in the first and in total, increases. But that's not all. We have, by the way, always in agreement with the social partners, built up training opportunities over many proven years, which, if there is no regular teaching place, ensure training for young people. So no one's standing on the street, we don't want to, that's perfectly clear. Young people who have an interest and also have the necessary background to do so can and will continue teaching in Austria in the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The shortage of skilled workers is undisputed. AMS and the Chamber of Commerce say that by 2009, if we let the reins be sanded, no fewer than 50,000 professionals will be missing. That's where you have to counter it, it's clear. There's a three-stage concept. First level: First of all, the skilled workers need to be trained regularly in the establishments. That's not why we're coming around. This is also in the company's own interest. Whoever wants to have a skilled worker, a skilled worker tomorrow or tomorrow, must start training today, best of all yesterday. The second stage is that job seekers and others find ever better opportunities in the field of the AMS. For example, I call the vocational training centre. I was on the Engerthstraße a few days ago in one, I would like to say, model company, a model training facility where people have the opportunity to re-acquire skilled workers in some of the months, at least in 15 to 18 months. These are also travelers, entrepreneurs, these are very, very often people with a migrant background, which are partly also brought into this rail with German courses. But in any case, it is in principle Austrian or foreigners who are being trained here. Only then, if the first and second stages are not sufficient, do we set up the labour market for just 800 workers from the new EU Member States in a sector-by-sector and specifically adapted to certain professions – welders, turners, milling agents – strictly as needed and clearly only for those jobs for which there are no Austrians. This is also demonstrated and verified in the replacement force process. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! “If the economy is good, we are all well!”; that has been quoted several times, and there is already something about it. [[Abg. Bitch: Don't be! Can't be good for people, but don't be!]] And there is also the reverse: Unfortunately, where the economy is not doing well, people are not doing well either. It is not that one should not also be taxed there; I then come to talk about it later on with employee participation. In the past, the colleagues from the Socialist Group have also made a great deal of criticism of the tax reform, of corporate tax reform, of the reduction of corporate tax, of the classic corporate tax, which, by the way, Mr Schalle, Mr Themessl, also paid to the middle class. These are mostly capital companies, GesmbH's proven form. Just because criticism has been made, I say that the economy is so good that, despite a lower rate, 25 percent – you know, Mr Riepl, with 1. January 2005 – since then, corporate tax has increased by no less than 25 percent. So we reduced them by about 25 percent, from 34 percent to 25 percent, and the revenue has increased by 25 percent in these two years. And the first quarter of this year shows an increase in this revenue by just 70 percent, i.e. a particularly nice increase. That means that the economy is doing well, but it also pays good taxes for it. This is good for the Minister of Finance, for the budget, for meaningful investments in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this has a lot to do with the successful internationalization of our economy. I would like to join Members of the Middle Lehender here, also because yesterday, by the way, for the first time since Julius Raab, all foreign trade delegates from all over the world came to Austria. It works great. Austria, said Mitterlehner, has become a European export champion; this concerns the increases. Austria is now, after years of alpine isolationism in the fifties, 1960s, and 1970s – how long have we needed to open up to take some courage and confidence again according to the horrors of the Second World War and the Nazi regime? At the front. In the meantime, only more Holland, Belgium and Ireland are even more open in terms of internationalisation than economics throughout Europe. We have overtaken Switzerland, we have overtaken the Finns, we have overtaken Sweden – with a share of our foreign economy in the gross domestic product of almost 60 percent. And I now count not only the exports of goods, but also the export of services to them. Think of Austrian architects who build the renomming building of Europe, namely the ECB building in Frankfurt; and there are many other examples of successful service exports, as well as our tourism, which also belongs to it. So, as I said, we now have almost 60 percent of GDP. So more than any second job, more than every second euro is earned through our external economy, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This way we want and will continue. And this does not come from the economic resort and not from the financial resort, the number has already been mentioned: Current account was laid, a current account – nomen est omen – that shows how powerful our economy is: plus €8.2 billion – after the good old schilling, that would be more than 100 billion schilling – current account surplus! Never had, never known – a clear proof of the performance of our economy! Second: How much do foreigners invest in Austria? How much do Austrians invest abroad? For decades we had to deal with the accusation, Austria is being bought up, Germans and others are buying here; now it is the Russians, also beautiful. But what's crucial is: We have turned this Foreign Direct Investment balance, Austria's entrepreneurs invest much more abroad than we invest, especially in Central and Eastern Europe, South-East Europe. This is a second proof of how our economy has become strong in the last five, ten, 15 years. Finally, this is the joint success of the policies of the governments, but above all the social partners, whom I would like to see in this place for today's good conclusion in terms of working time flexibility. It looks pretty good. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! From our export economy, from internationalization and from what we are doing here – by the way, thanks to the Chamber of Commerce, thanks to the External Economic Organisation, it is excellent how this is designed, that could not be better; this is already the best foreign economic organisation in the world and only in the future! - to the labour market. There's a direct connex, we know. Growth is essential for the labour market. The qualification offensive, labour market policy, labour market funds are also important, but I believe that a growth of 3 percent is, of course, the best prerequisite and that I was pretty close a year ago, it was the 1. May, by the way, you, Mrs Csörgits, and others were not very well-informed at the time, announced the trend change on the labour market, because I knew that the labour market is currently running. In January 2006, he turned, and he went on to turn; we are now at a rate of 4.4 percent, very dear Mr Themessl. And don't be angry, Mr. Strache, I've heard your calls: We have been a member of the European Union since 1995! You were for it back then. [[Abg. Strache: We weren't for it at the time! Stay with the truth!]] Accordingly, my venerations Ladies and gentlemen, we adhere to Eurostat data and adhere to European comparable statistics. Eurostat is not dogma, it is not the truth, but it has failed, at least, to focus on it as on the statistics of Mr Themessl – I can guarantee that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: One hour of work a week cannot be described as work!]] That's 4.4 percent, and now we're Europe's peak again. We are the country with the third lowest unemployment rate; it should become 4.1 to 4.2 percent this year, the economic researchers say. [[Abg. Strache: This is exactly the social cold that gets through!]] So we're on our way to full employment. Our goal for 2010 to have a three-way forward, which is not guaranteed, but possible if the growth fits; the government is at least very, very committed to it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the AMS is also doing an excellently active labour market policy. You can still do everything better, but I spoke to Mr. Wies, the head of the German Federal Agency for Labour, and he is full of praise for our AMS. Our AMS has taken top places in all rankings in Europe, in part number one places. We are efficient, we are excellent in terms of mediation times, the AMS is doing excellent with regard to qualifications. This, of course, costs money. Mr Themessl, I will then give you this landscape on your further information. It is true – I say: unfortunately – that we are currently making surpluses. We make €477 million in the year 2006. This is not just about unemployment benefits, you have to look a little further: This is also an active labour market policy, and even if the AMS is economical: the administration, the approximately 4,000 employees, or a little more, also costs money. There will be €477 million in deficit. From today's point of view, I hope that in 2008 in the area of labour market delivery, as it is so beautiful – that is, income from unemployment insurance and what is spent on qualification, unemployment benefit, emergency aid and cetera – will be zero. But before that, this is not the case. There's no money missing at all, Mr. Themessl. Labour market is not only labour market policy, but also labour market. And here we are facing very exciting and important developments, and I believe – in this context I am now adding: If the economy goes well, then we can all do well – that adjustments are quite appropriate there. [[Abg. Strache: That was the right formulation now! Then everyone can do well!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it has not only been so in Austria, but also in all other countries that capital incomes and wage incomes are severely divergent: Record levels on the stock exchanges, also in Vienna – wonderful, there are also more and more shareholders – but wage incomes could not keep up. There were not the social partners, in no way the trade unions that made a mistake here, but you looked at unit labour costs, on competitiveness, and the responsible wage policy of our social partners was and will be a guarantee of the competitiveness of this country. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] – So much praise for the social partners and just so shaky applause from the employer side! [[New condolences with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, it is true that in the next few years we want to put in place measures to increase the participation of workers in capital income. That's the way it's going. This will certainly be a real capital contribution in the case of large listed stock companies. If there are no AK directors or presidents who want to prevent workers from taking profits in a federal country, this is even more successful and even better. For the large small and medium-sized enterprises of this country, profit participation is more likely. And as long as this happens at voluntary level, I believe that we should do a lot in 2010 in the framework of the tax reform. By the way, I am entirely with the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany that we should create additional incentives for such profits to be included in an occupational pension scheme. This would then be done twice, in favour of workers and in favour of their pensions. But it is not only about profit participation, it is also about a working world that I want to describe with the term – borrowed by our German friends – “good work”. It is a matter of re-codification of labour law that we should be more focused on the fact that the full-time working relationship, the indefinite working relationship, is to become standard. It is a European development that we do not wish to exclude that only more than 60 percent of the people are working full-time, and 40 percent are employed part-time, temporary, do internships, are self-employed and, and, No criticism of these conditions, not at all, but I believe that the signal should be present for young people in particular: We are not a "generation internship", but we also have the perspective of an indefinite full-time work relationship. That's supposed to be the standard, and I want to get involved in that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We also want to take further steps towards flexicurity in Austria: more flexibility, but at the same time more security. If the social partners today make the breakthrough of making working time more flexible in Austria, then of course there is also a greater need for social security, so are overtime supplements for part-time workers and more. In the next few weeks, we will discuss how we can give more social security to people who are a little dependent on social security. These are, in part, workers, free workers, but they are also self-employed. What is different about the risk factor of small self-employed, tradesmen of employees? - Nothing at all! They're immediately exposed. That's why: Yes to better social security also of self-employed, keyword for example: Unemployment insurance for self-employed persons. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. At last! It's time!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I have three or four minutes left, so one last aspect that has become particularly important in these days, and I tell you that this aspect will accompany us for years and decades: Energy policy. This has resulted, and I am grateful for the broad consensus in Austria that what the OMV is doing in Iran is happening and right. There are calls – I expected them. The political sensitivity of the project is very clear to Ruttenstorfer and me and all of us. We will not be able to discuss the Iran/Libya Sanctions Act and its successor model as much as the Helms-Burton Act, but it is about the applicability of these rules in Europe. The OMC is not alone in the whole game, not only on further hall, not even the spear tip, but there are also others: Statoil Norway has already signed such a memorandum, Shell has made it, Totally allegedly also, Repsol of Spain completely, quite sure. So if you take care of security of supply, you must not only look at Russia, but also look at Norway, you also have to look after Iran, Qatar and, and, not only can you take care of individual pipelines coming from Ukraine to Austria via Baumgarten – that is what we did on 1. Last year’s Januarys are painful – but they must also strive for “Nabucco”. If one wants not only Caspian gas, but also Iranian gas, and also for “Nabucco”, one will not want to hit the Iranians in respect of the South Pars gas field – of course, in compliance with all international regulations. Apart from that: There is no general economic boycott to Iran, the Americans also do business with Iran. There is no doubt that where we Europeans are full of solidarity with the Russians with the Americans, the Iranians are “invading” and integrating them into the international solidarity when it comes to the non-enrichment of uranium. And there, in some cases, embargo measures are necessary and, of course, they are also carried by us, they are also covered by the Security Council. So far, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, energy policy is a particularly exciting field. I conclude with a formula that is: 2020: 20/20/20. This is not a stuttering, but actually the content of European energy policy, as last decided: by 2020 minus 20 percent greenhouse gases, plus 20 percent energy efficiency and 20 percent renewable energy sources. We are fully involved here, Josef Pröll is doing excellent work here – a little bit we are looking at the cost. We are a country that is committed to taking a step forward here, for example in the case of biofuels. We have set up a climate protection and energy fund: €500 million within four years, a Europe-wide example project. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, after this brief excursion in energy policy, I conclude with the attempt at a small warning. In these months and years, I see a little risk that with 2.5, 3.5 percent of economic growth, an excellent employment situation, a cloudless sky – not only outside of Vienna, but overall on the economic sky – we might tend to let the reins grind a little. I thought that was a mistake, and I would ask you to cooperate, because: Whoever doesn't grow, he's shrinking! Those who are very, very well placed in this international competition, in which we are currently very well placed and are certainly among the top-ranking countries, are not constantly working to get better, they fall back into the middle field – as in football. If Milan doesn't watch for a few minutes, Manchester is right there and Rooney is making the goal in the 91. Minutes. We don't want that! We want to continue to be the top, that is, we must continue to engage in the site, but according to the principle: We want a solidarity society in this country. This is possible: Solidarity on the one hand, performance on the other. We are the winner of globalisation – at least we are the winners of the opening of the East, and we are a winner of globalisation, says the note bank. 80 to 90 percent of people benefit from globalisation. However, in the coming months and years – perhaps even a little stronger than last – we will take care of the modernisation and globalisation losers, who also exist; Keywords: Minimum wage, minimum security, minimum pension. This also includes: a policy that looks at one another as well as the other. [[Abg. Street: 80 percent of citizens benefit? Where? 80 percent of citizens do not benefit! 20 benefit and 80 suffer!]] We will not, as a government group, rely on something, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but I am not so sure of you, that is, on the lazy skin, because that would be bad for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24870	Next, Mr Amon. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e24933	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by congratulating you, Mr Federal Minister, on the housekeeping law presented yesterday. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I believe that this will make it possible to ensure a very important point in the future in the area of care, home care for up to 24 hours, namely legal certainty, also in the sense of labour law. That's a nice, good success. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Care level 5!]] We wish Mr Buchinger all the best when it comes to financing, that this can be achieved in the negotiations with the federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: When it comes to asylum, the federal states immediately pay for the old-age care, the federal states are not willing to pay!]] I would like to start by focusing a little on the labour market – Mr. Strache, less on you, but on the labour market. In recent years, we have had a relatively difficult development on the stagnating labour market, we have had to fight with relatively high unemployment rates, not only in Austria but throughout the European Union. However much one may assess the past legislative period, one may find that it is well beyond the last legislative period: I believe that in close cooperation with the social partners, Austrian federal governments have always managed to achieve a relatively - I always say: relatively - low unemployment rate. This is a beautiful success of the last German government, but of course also the current one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Mr Amon, you're not very accurate!]] Mr Bartenstein has also mentioned this in his remarks – I have allowed myself to visualize it a little, so that not quite the impression that the labour market has only occurred since 1. Last October, because you've been trying a little bit to represent it like that. I mean, it's nice when we can say that the labour market has turned overall. If you look at the decline in unemployment, you see that we still had some growth in the January of last year and that these have then fallen relatively sharply in February and March, and since then we have actually had a continuous decline in unemployment in Austria. [[The speaker shows a graphic]] A fine success of the last and the current Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: But before that you made it rise!]] I do not want to go too far into the discussion that the figures that have been breached would be, as some people say, because many are in training. Firstly, of course, we also have net declines in unemployment, but even if someone is in training, this is at least a progress towards unemployment. Of course, it makes sense to further qualify people who are in the difficult situation of unemployment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It seems particularly important to me to deal with the issue of youth unemployment. Mr Veit Schale has also raised the issue. I believe it is very important, Mrs State Secretary, and I am also grateful for continuing the measures we have introduced since the last legislative period, such as the measures in the Youth Training Security Act or the apprenticeship premium, where we are very consciously supporting businesses that are willing to train apprentices. Think of the social partners' initiative of the apprenticeship acquirer or of the extraordinary success story through the introduction of the "Blum-Bonus" or the "Jobs4Youth" initiative, which has added 63 000 young people to professional qualifications in the last year alone. There are important points that, I believe, have been summarized with the quote, if you want to, which has already been the subject of the debate several times today – Mr Mitterlehner has mentioned this –: If the economy is going well, we're all fine! I'd hope that's a equation, and in equations it's like this: If A is equal to B, B is also equal to A. And that means of course: If we are all well, then the economy is going well, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is, I believe, an important point which is particularly important in the context of employment. [[Abg. Riepl: What if B isn't A?]] That is why I would also like to thank the social partners who are very much committed to making the minimum wage of 1000 € in full employment a reality, because this is an important social contribution for our country. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25068	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Honey to speak. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25089	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I wanted to say something about the budget figures, but my previous speakers – in this case the speakers – are giving rise to reference to their statements. Mr Bartenstein, I would just like to address one of your statements directly. They say someday the full-time job is supposed to be the rule. - It's supposed to be someday! But I'm wondering, Which policy has led to this in recent years – keyword: Flexibility – that this is not the reality? – No, you don’t understand, okay, well, don’t wonder because you do this policy. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: (in the direction of Green) applause!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Mitterlehner, you say: If the economy is going well, we're all fine! – Not only do you say that, but also your colleagues. – Yes, it is necessary that the economy is doing well, but that is not enough. A prosperous economy alone does not result in the majority of people doing well. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Riepl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: We also have social policy and the...!]] - Yeah, that's right. But it's a keyword. Flexibility, neoliberal globalisation – and then you continue. We have nothing to fear from globalisation policy, you say, too, Mr Minister. This “we” can only be meant as Pluralis Majestatis in your usual solidarity way, because if you talk to the workers in that country, you see, they are afraid – they fear for their work, and precisely because it is not enough if the economy is good, so that all people can be confident. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Because you're telling them that!]] [[Abg. Head: If you keep scaring them!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheelers: proposals!]] But now on the figures of the budget, specifically on the figures of active labour market policy, i.e. those available for advice, mediation and training by the AMS. This amounted to 938 million in 2006, 934 million in 2007 and 933 million in 2008. That means quite clearly: Funding for active labour market policies is declining. We therefore have less money for active labour market policies. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] - That's right. We know the government says you argue with this: We have fewer unemployed people, that is why we also need to look after fewer people, and that is justified! That's your logic: less unemployed – less resources! Above all, one could understand this too, but let us look at the core of the matter. The equation: fewer unemployed is equal to less means, implies a constant, and these are the quality and level of benefits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] If everything remains the same with the old, everything will remain the same, then this could be true: declining unemployment rates – falling expenditure on the measures. But who here in the hall wants the level and quality of the performance of active labour market policy to remain the same? - We're not sure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I've had the opportunity to tell you cases of people being cared for by the AMS over and over again. I don't want to keep one from you, but last week he was told by an AMS supervisor. A former coach for job coaching, who became unemployed, came to this AMS supervisor. A coach for job coaching of the AMS became unemployed and came to the AMS consultant, and the only one she could offer him – and that's not a joke now! – was a job coaching! - That's not an individual case! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] That is why I do not want the quality and level of active labour market policy to remain the same. Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens have been demanding more money for real, also certified trainings for a long time. Only 18.3 percent of the resources for active labour market policies are used precisely for this purpose. That means 81.7% disappear for job coaching and computer courses. This is a shame, it is not sustainable, and this certainly does not correspond to the ideas of the Greens as regards meaningful labour market policies. Because we have already heard various rankings of our active labour market policy today, I would like to briefly explain what the “New Zurich Newspaper” writes about this – the “New Zurich Newspaper” is not really a left-wing, socially oriented sheet, but a conservative Swiss newspaper. And she writes on the 16th. April: “There has been nothing except fees”, “degrading judgment on Austria’s active labour market policy”. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That was a letter from the reader...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, we need a change of strategy on this issue, which is quite clear. I would have liked to explain what it looks like with the end-of-life cover, that is, the federal grant, why it is somehow not consistent that we have 0.8 percent unemployment on the one hand, but 6 percent reduction in expenditure, unfortunately, no longer remains the time for this. In short, the point is: We need more resources for active labour market policies. [[Abg. Rädler: What are the proposals?]] – Proposals? We're not here in committee. My point was: From the point of view of the Greens, more money would be now – right now! – necessary for active labour market policy. I already know: anticyclic budgetary policy. Nevertheless, the budget estimate has unfortunately disappointed us in this post, and this disappointment is unfortunately cyclic with us!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25267	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25288	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add the following to Mr Amon's statement: If the economy is going well, people are fine. – It is, however, very crucial that people are well, which is also crucial because otherwise the economy is not going well in the long term. I think in recent years it has been shown that the increase in “working part” has not always been the right line, just that the economy is doing well. But I am glad that this has changed. In this context, a visible sign in the budget will also ensure that the situation on the labour market will continue to improve, as a large part of the budget is available for active and active labour market policies over the next two years. That's necessary, and that's a good thing. I have already responded to the AMS and would like to thank the colleagues of the AMS on this occasion very warmly for the work they have done, which was and is not always easy, but they always do great. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On this occasion I would like to make a request to you, Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. Studies have shown that in the area of the AMS employees are also missing, approximately 300. On the one hand, to improve the situation of workers in this very important institution, on the other hand to ensure that unemployed people receive even better, even more precise care and treatment, it would be necessary to also upgrade in the AMS – in the positive –. Another point, which is very important to me, is the fact that the resources available to the AMS are kept in mind that, according to them, there are many means of promoting and qualifying women – re-entry, very important, further qualification, very important. Finally, I would like to refer to a measure which has already been suggested in speeches, namely the promotion of flowering. This is undoubtedly a good thing, but I think it could be improved in many areas. In the context of Blum funding, one should perhaps consider whether there is a achievement of the teaching goals not only for the apprentice, but also for the employer, the teacher. One should perhaps put a little more emphasis on the fact that training in the farm is well completed and that girls have the opportunity to go even more in future-oriented professions. We should work together to improve this good measure. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25336	Next item is the report by Mr Kickl. Requested time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25358	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Estimated Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour! I spoke to the sports sector yesterday before this auditorium and wanted to be particularly fair, because I have agreed that the sports sector is basically not one of the worst – compared with other budget chapters that we are presented this week. There's actually a little money there, you have to admit. The question is: How is that due to what fact? And there you have the happiness of benefiting from more revenue in the lottery. However, you, Mr Federal Minister, have given us an attempt here, or you have acted as if you were responsible for it. And that's something that's going through with you: You reap something you didn't sow! That's exactly what it looks like in your budget design. If you formulated it salopp: Ladies and gentlemen, you are drivers of the world economy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And you would probably have good reasons to hike to Mariazell and say thank you there instead of constantly praising any measures that were responsible for it. It's amazing when the half here in the hall says: The fact that we are now doing quite well economically that the figures are developing positively is a merit of the great work of the previous government! [[Demonstrative applause with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is just as wrong, as the other half here says, in an already almost penetrating cramp towards Chancellorship in search of this lost red manuscript that the SPÖ had now torn the row around. There's no red manuscript! This becomes particularly clear in the chapter on employment and the economy. There's something else, there's a red thread, and that's this kickboard drivership in the world economy that you can use, but you can't use it – and that's the accusation you have to make with all the hardness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This accusation, ladies and gentlemen, is all the more serious than what you are presenting to us here is a double budget. You would have had the double chance of doing something good, but you fail in a double way and thus, in a time when you would be able to make it better to make the course in a completely wrong direction. If you strapatize the word “anticyclic” – yesterday it was very often liked here – then I say: The word “anticyclic” is nothing but a cheap excuse for the fact that the coalition climate is obviously not enough for one to sit down now and achieve something reasonable. Let’s move it to some point when we still have it, and let’s call it “anticyclic ”! - That's what's really behind it. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately it looks like the chapter “Economics and Work”. Today we have already been talking about this, we have to ask the basic question: Who creates and who actually saves work? And apparently it is part of a kind of secret or independent government programming that you always attribute to yourself the merit, to create work and to secure work that you are once again a party to the hat that you do not have at all, just as before the great initiatives in the field of export industry. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] I should just like to remind you, Minister of Labour, that it was, so to speak, a big-coalitarian gag attack on the companies in this country, where it is really necessary to equip everyone with an order that has overcome these bureaucratic obstacles and has nevertheless become offensive in export. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] This is your method: You're stuck to the hat you can't stand! In reality, ladies and gentlemen – you are right – it is the economy that secures jobs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But you have to ask a little more precisely now, because it is primarily the small and medium-sized enterprises that deserve this. And these are exactly the ones that, above all, the ÖVP's very grueling mention of every Sunday's speech. And now you have done nothing to relieve exactly these small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no reduction in additional wage costs! The opposite is the case, you give them one. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: That's not true!]] They drive numerous hosts into a crisis of existence, because you are almost hysterical – I say – leading an anti-smoking campaign, which will eventually become a major economic problem for many. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mikesch.]] – Yes, a smoker hat is what you do! They increase petrol and diesel prices. Do you believe that this is an economic impulse that you are putting with it, and that you are doing anything good to small and medium-sized enterprises? What you really do with it, ladies and gentlemen, is: They admit that you have opted for a policy that basically sees their role in making yourself the step-band holder of the big corporations. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I say only one sentence: the opening of the labour market for the so-called workers from the East. – This is a strange concept you have. That's really weird. The Chamber of Labour for April notes that there are 10,000 skilled workers from the metal sectors in Austria who do not have work. And how does your solution look like? – They open the borders and want to bring in 800 workers from the east. Well, good night, Austria! What you do with it is to advance social reduction, you open the wage dumping door and gate, and you operate a policy that actually only serves to maximize profits. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mikesch.]] That's what you have to say. Unfortunately, the SPÖ – this is the accusation in your direction! – apparently so blinded and so impressed by the renewed Chancellorship that the white flag was raised in this area in advance. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: These are also climbing hangers, probably!]] Just remember, ladies and gentlemen, especially the SPÖ, that last autumn you did – and this is of course a little longer – to bring about climate change also in the area of employment policy in this country. Today you are a Chancellor's Party and do not even have the working days. We have then also received a Social Minister, who is not concerned with teeth and claws, just as it would be his job to put before Austrian workers, but who has nothing else to do but also to support the early opening of the labour market. This is one of his magnificent ideas, just as he had the other great idea – he was particularly visionary – that you should go to bed later and later. Doors open, ladies and gentlemen, inspected – the sooner the better! – This is obviously the Bartenstein/Buchinger course. But I am very clear to you that this is a course in the dead end. [[Abg. Rädler: Is that all?]] Ladies and gentlemen! We are missing very, very painful in this budget strategies and means of getting out of unemployment. [[Abg. Grillitsch: I think you have read this badly!]] Perhaps you have forgotten this because you are, in fact, already following a different thought, namely that of minimum security, where you get something for doing nothing more. We miss a labour market offensive that deserves this name too. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Where is the Stadler?]] It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that there have already been more people without work, but there are still 297 000 people. [[Abg. Grillich: Where is Mr. Stadler?]] You yourself always say that the reference to the bad times should not be the standard, but you want to become the number one and should be oriented to the good. [[Abg. Grillich: Tell us where Mr. Stadler is! It's been missing for three days!]] So if you come up with some statistics, with Eurostat and the like, it may sound quite logical, just, with reality, it has nothing to do with it. It reminds in many areas of this game with the quantity teaching – you will know that – where two people are in one room and three go out. Then someone's got to go back in so nobody's inside. This is very, very logical, but it has nothing to do with reality. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Because we just spoke about the AMS – this is another important point –: I am very pleased that a German expert believes that the AMS is a very, very, very much – how to say? – effective device is. But this can only be said from a distance, because, unfortunately, the AMS is something like a sad permanent burner, where it is not and does not succeed in breaking through the frustration spiral that exists on both sides, namely those who are supposed to mediate the jobs and the jobs to provide higher-qualification, and the others who, because they no longer know what else to do, turn to this AMS in the hope that they will be helped there. There are a total of resources in there, and the only ones who really benefit are apparently people who offer courses that really need to talk about their sense of meaning. When you see that there are courses on relaxation techniques, where you take common walks – obviously group-forming – so that you may be easier to do if you stay in unemployment longer, if you are organized card games, or if you are doing yoga courses and drum units, that is, I think, not something that is done to make people get back into the working world easier. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The AMS offers many possibilities when you use them. But if a victim tells us that he has to attend the same course eight times at the AMS, and in this course the engineers sit right next to the special students and answer any pointless questions, we do not understand this by an efficient labour market policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] We don't understand that. Unfortunately, these are not individual cases, but they have in the area of the AMS system. That's where you, Minister of State, failed in your control function. This is also said by the Court of Auditors, which says internal reports by the AMS itself. So you'd have enough to do. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to abstain from you – I know that will now be annoyed by the Gutman Group: What we are not talking about here is unemployment among foreigners. That is something that is not officially available, because the foreigners are all here to ensure that we have the social standard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bayr.]] I'll tell you: On average 197 000 people identified as unemployed were confronted with 42 200 unemployed foreigners in 2006. That's about a fifth we're dealing with here. Since 2000, registered unemployment in foreigners has increased almost twice. So these are people who come to us, as we always get it explained, so that they can secure our social system – and at the same time that social state is on the bag. I tell you, our concept of the Freedom Party is different. We want to link our stay to employment and allow employment at all if it is not possible to resolve it in the medium term in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – I tell you, in the rarest cases, this is the case. The path you've taken is a wood road!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25573	Next came Mr Hörl's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25594	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! They understand that I care about tourism, because I believe that tourism is still one of the most important and growing sectors in our country. Strongly forward-looking, it secures a broad prosperity for the entire population up to the remotest Alpine valleys and peripheral regions. He receives and constantly creates new jobs and increases the quality of life of the Austrians with his infrastructure. The hospitality of Austria, the beauty of our homeland was known by tourism throughout the world. [[Abg. Murauer: Right!]] It can be claimed with fug and right that it is this sector that has made known to the culture and music of this country all over the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Murauer: That's it! Bravo!]] Tourism, Mr. Hauser, is also the form of business... – Can you listen, too, Mr. Hauser?! - Please. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Tourism was...!]] [[Abg. May. Hauser: Tourism was the preparer for...!]] Tourism is also the economic form with the greatest wealth distribution. It even brings prosperity to East Tyrol, Mr. Hauser, and you should be very pleased because you come from East Tyrol, right? - Good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Hauser: There you have to do a little more!]] Tourism and the leisure industry employed 222,000 people in February 2007. This is an increase of 3.7 percent compared to the previous year. Last year, the tourism industry made 14 766 apprentices – a plus of 2.2 percent in 2005. In March 2007 more than 1 000 teaching places were available for 450 students. A third of the new apprentices are already being trained in this sector. Mr. Veit Sounde, it is Christian-social policy that we are just taking care of these clients. If I see that we are now strengthened in the Ministry of Labour with a charming and very competent State Secretary, then you can assume that it is Christian-social policy that we take care of apprentices to train. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] The value added of tourism alone in terms of GDP amounted to 8.7 percent and tourism and leisure industry to 16.4 percent. The investment power is enormous and also ensures many thousand jobs in other sectors, such as construction and construction. In tourism, too, many farmers are busy and we can thus contribute to ensuring that farmers can continue farming at their farms in the valleys. The cable car industry, for example, brings the budget to €500 million in sales tax alone. For good reason, in the coming two budgets, €24 million are planned for Austria's advertising, €22 million for the ÖHT and €18 million for Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH. Further funding from the Ministry of Science is planned for the AWS. And with €2.2 million we support the shelters. I thank our Federal Minister Bartenstein for this. Minister Pröll also has a heart for tourism, not only for farmers, his budget includes an additional €4 million. Thanks also to our Minister of Life! In yesterday’s issue of the newspaper “The Press”, it was said that our Federal Chancellor is slowing down the eastern opening of the labour market. The need for skilled workers, especially in the West, is particularly great in small and medium-sized enterprises. Last year, for example, the average unemployment rate in Tyrol was 2.9%. So we have full employment. We in Tyrol were the best. The other federal states are just behind it, only Vienna once again sees bad as a negative leader – at 8.8 percent. Mrs Csörgits, perhaps in the AMS-Vienna one should increase the motivation and also the willingness to do so. [[Abg. Reheis: Do you have the directive to pick up on Vienna?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Let us finally open the labour market towards new EU countries! We need these employees urgently! The initiative of Minister Bartenstein to leave 800 sweaters and castles in addition to Austria is correct, but it is too little. Let us not wait until 2009 – and then experience that good labour in this country is already working with our neighbors, because we are already provoking that. I'll get you together. Tourism is one of the most important and growing sectors in this country. He creates work and thus prosperity also in the remote regions of our country and thus ensures the quality of life for the population. Secondly, According to the principle of the economy and sustainability of the budget, which our Vice-Cancecian Molterer rightly stated, tourism is enough. Thirdly, We finally open the labour market, we bring the workforce to the enterprises, and we prevent businesses from moving to cheap labour markets and we sit in empty halls! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25729	Ladies and gentlemen! Because it fits on the subject and you are discussing the labour market, I would like to welcome at least some of those girls here at the top of the gallery who are taking part today on the International Day and are exploring Parliament's jobs for a whole day: Welcome! [[General condolences.]] I would also like to thank all five political groups for taking an active part in this project today. Mrs Haubner's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25766	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! And above all, dear visitors – daughters who are in Parliament today on the occasion of the Girl’s Day! The fact that the situation in the labour market is satisfactory is that the unemployment rate is declining, that we have a high level of employment – especially among women – and that we have good economic growth is primarily a result of the labor and performance of employees in Austria, but also of innovation and the courage of entrepreneurs. Of course, framework conditions for employment policies and social policies also play an important role. We have made real sustainable choices in the area of social policy in recent years. I am thinking of the largest tax relief in the Second Republic, where we have just made very strong pressure from the BZÖ that this tax relief comes to strengthen the purchasing power of the people in Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am thinking of the new “handling” – also an idea of the BZÖ that we implemented during the last legislative period. In the last committee, the Secretary of State said that two million workers already benefit from this new “handling” as employee participation and as employee care. Mr Bartenstein, therefore, I am very pleased that you said that a next step must be taken towards employee participation, participation in the profits of employees. I am really pleased that you are thinking about taking further steps, because you are also taking an incentive from the BZÖ, which we have made towards Investivlaan. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Employment and training of young people – my colleague Veit Salehat has already said it – is particularly important to us from the BZÖ. We know that we need the best minds in our country today, but also in the future, and we need people on the labour market who also meet the new technological developments. That is why we also need lessons with very modern training content. The economy – and we have already heard that – has a great need for skilled skilled workers, and it is always said that in the search for suitable apprenticeships, one will not always find and that this will become increasingly difficult. I think, on the one hand, that school has been a major task in the last year, but also concepts developed in recent years need to be optimised and further developed. A concept that – I think – has been very good in recent years was the concept of “teaching and matura”. I think you should go on now and say: ‘Teach with Matura’. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This means that, within the training period, the professional maturity test can already be carried out. The great advantage is that there are two degrees that there is a training with a very high share of practice and also different modules in the field of personality development. A model of this kind is currently being carried out in Carinthia, and I think it could also be exemplary for the entire federal territory and also contribute to the image appreciation of the teaching. I would therefore ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to invest even more in these models, such as those just mentioned, and above all not to use the energies on the question: How can we avoid the protection of termination in young people? If, on the one hand, we say that no youth is allowed and should be on the street, and on the other hand, this government is concerned with how to loosen the protection of termination, then this simply does not fit in. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Our path from BZÖ is to promote and support young people, but not to fire them from a job that is very, very important to them. A second area I would like to address is the area of better reconciliation between work and family life. Mrs Marek has said in the Committee that the motto of this government is 'good work', and I can only fully support it, especially when it relates to permanent working hours, to full-time jobs, but also to quality part-time jobs. Finally, we must separate ourselves from the assumption that women are always forced to work part-time, there are many women who want to work part-time, and therefore the quality and the corresponding social security is of great importance here too. Because today the Girls’ Day is, I think, also important, the steps that we have taken in the past towards the access of girls to women’s untypical professions are still to be strengthened, even better informed, but on the other hand also not to neglect the so-called traditional professions, for ultimately every young person has to decide for himself which profession he chooses. The offer is a diverse one and should therefore be underlined and supported again today. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! What I lack in this budget, also as a strategy and as an orientation, is the family orientation of companies that are particularly supported and promoted. We have so far had several voluntary instruments, and we hope that they will continue to have companies that offer flexible working hours, companies that offer special services in the sense of childcare, here on free will. For example, the audit family & profession are supported, because we know it is worth it for both sides: for the company as well as for the employees. The next step should be that there are tax incentives here too for businesses, and there should be a family allowance similar to the education allowance. Mr Federal Minister, you said that the Minister of Finance is doing very well now because he is taking a lot of taxes. This would be the opportunity to take a step towards a special tax incentive for companies offering a corresponding family orientation. At the end of the day, I would like to highlight a current problem, and it also has to do with day care for children. Since 2005, there has been a recognition by the Administrative Court that au pair relations such as regular working conditions must be treated, which has not yet been the case. So far, there is no solution, and I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, not to move between the Ministry of Social Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, but to make a quick solution in the sense of the families, and also in the sense that the better compatibility of work and family is not put in the way of further stones. -Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25865	Now comes Mrs Mag. Muzzle on the floor. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25886	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget chapter of the economy and work is very extensive, covers many areas, and one of them is the building area I would like to comment on briefly. This also includes the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft, whose owner representatives you are. At the end of 2006, the BIG manages mite-relevant building areas of 6.6 million square meters, and the rental income is of course also an essential component of sales, with federal schools also being an important part of this rental income. But the BIG is not only the landlord, it also invests considerable parts, and I think this is particularly important, especially with regard to the dedicated projects undertaken by the Federal Government in the field of education. It is also necessary to provide sufficient school space. It is not the case at present that the students everywhere near their place of residence find a school place, just as it is unfortunately the case of God so far in my district, where many students have to commute. However, shortly after the National Council election – and this is particularly gratifying – a paradigm change has taken place, and under the leadership of the BIG there is now greater investment. Two school centers are being rebuilt, one with 930 schools in the Danube City, and a new gymnasium is also planned for Aspern. The structure of the BIG is also very detailed in the budget chapter. Unfortunately, the time is now too short to devote myself to this, I would just like to draw attention to the need for a real estate database, which should also be available to all departments, so that parallel activities are excluded. A very short point on the promotion of housing. The Coalition Government is committed to promoting housing. This is very encouraging, because in the past that was not always the case. There have always been votes to promote housing cut, cut. The promotion of housing has a very important economic importance, and this was briefly cut by my colleague, Sonnberger, yesterday. 80 per cent of the residential housing is supported, and this is an indication of the economic importance, but also of the social importance, because it also guarantees sustainable living. With €1.8 million in the 2007/2008 budgets, there is now no significant increase, but I would like to draw attention to the need to increase this housing support in the medium term, as we know, for example, from a recent Wifo study, that the population will increase, that more housing will be needed, and it is therefore also important that cost-effective housing can be made available. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25935	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e25956	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister Bartenstein, you have been quite broad in your opinion – yes, the “New Zurich Newspaper” is already coming – and one issue was of course and is also active labour market policy for me. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Are you a judge?]] You're a judge. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: No!]] – You are not a lawyer, but you should recognise yourself as a lawyer on legal issues, and you should know, just as Mr Fekter did, that he was not condemned in a criminal case. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Has a criminal court found out or not?]] – A criminal court found that out? Don't you sit with me in the immunity committee and know that he couldn't be convicted of a criminal court not starting investigations at all? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier.]] Mr President, Mr von der ÖVP, and ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, you have defamed not only me here in the House, but also Mr Pilz – now, yesterday, so often, so often. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you do this outside, make it out in front of the house, then you know exactly that you are being sentenced. Let it happen! Say that outside the house, but don't try to disturb a debate that has nothing to do with it, by your really inappropriate ideas. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: It has something to do with it!]] I would like to return, Minister of State, to the active labour market policy on which the ÖVP obviously does not want to discuss. That's the amazing one. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: This is a breach of law!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Madam President, I should like to thank you for your I would really ask you: Can't you slow down the ÖVP delegates a little? That's unbearable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] The issue has nothing to do with it! Didn't you understand? [[Abg. Morak: You have to explain this to you! You didn't understand!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] I would like to discuss active labour market policy, and I can say, Federal Minister, you have the economy you are so proud of, which we all are looking forward to, not hindering with your active labour market policy, but you have not specifically supported it. I take this article from the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, which describes a study on active labour market policy. There are several studies on active labour market policies in Austria, and there are very critical results. I am not now standing out here to say that everything was bad, Mr Federal Minister, in active labour market policy, but after years of intense debate – not only in Austria, where the debate was not so intense, I admit, but within Europe – on certain instruments of active labour market policy, I should think about whether the measures that Austrian active labour market policy has set in recent years were the right ones, because – and this now concerns Mr Mitterlehner, there is likely to be an intermediate call, please be careful – these very business-related active labour market promotion instruments, which have not at all brought it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – I knew there was an intermediate call. Timely. Thank you! I'm glad about it. The economic impact of active labour market policy – I read to you from the “Zürcher”, Federal Minister – is very small. Only the public and non-profit sectors recorded increasing employment due to the support measures. – Not the private area! This concerns the years 2000 to 2003. This is the core of black and blue labour market policy. The only detectable effect there has been is the relative improvement in the competitive position of unemployed people in relation to other jobs. - So it's a displacement effect. In addition, participation and substitution effects are identified in the field of active labour market policies. It has not changed anything in recent years – even if you say, Federal Minister, that is very old – on the instruments. And that is why I believe that, beyond the debate on job coaching and what the colleague has already suggested, we should consider whether we should not re-enact and renew certain instruments of active labour market policy, which I believe to be useful. There is no innovative labour market policy from your side in recent years. The last innovative labour market policy in Austria was developed and promoted by Federal Minister Dallinger. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] Since then, nothing has essentially been done, except that you have reduced significantly in the field of non-profit, where active labour market policies can actually and have taken place. And I'm just asking the question: Does that have to be? - I don't think so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point, Minister of State, because it always comes back. If you have a threesome in front of the command of the Eurostat numbers on unemployment in Austria, this does not mean that we have full employment yet, but that can be 7 percent unemployed according to the register unemployment rate. I repeat: We were still the country in Europe in the early 1990s, with the lowest unemployment rate. Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Denmark, Ireland, Switzerland, Norway, some UK have overtaken or competed with these countries, but many are better. Six or seven countries have overtaken us over the last fifteen years. So come on. You don't, therefore, and don't say we can knock on the shoulder. I would appeal to the address of the Socialist Group: Please don't do that! Please don't do that, even if you're in the government, pretend to be all right, just because there's a threesome in front of the comma. Last point: I would like to take up a point from Mr Haubner. In the last legislative period, there was a draft au pair law from your place of business, Mr. Federal Minister. He wasn't that bad at all. You could have discussed it with us. Don't discuss with us, but the point is: You let the design disappear in the sinking. If we want au pair employment to be regulated in such a way that the au pairs also have something to do with being not only cheaply employed, then we will discuss it. But that's not exactly what the draft did. I didn't find him so bad. If we want them to have educational opportunities, and if we think that this is a meaningful employment, education and employment exchange relationship – because this is a complicated story – then something should happen on this point. But one thing you should not do, Minister of State: not to mention that there is a ruling of the Administrative Court which makes at least legal au pair employment impossible from May 2007.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26140	Mrs. Dr. Karl is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26161	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I'm convinced that work doesn't go out of our way, it's just changing. Let me mention, for example, some of these changes! In addition to a greater interplay of work, leisure and family work, there is also a stronger outsource of private activities. Think of care activities, childcare or cleaning. It should also be noted that workers today are demanding more mobility and flexibility. There must also be an increase in continuing and continuing training. The faster the working world changes, the more important it becomes to further education and training. Finally, the forms of employment are also subject to change. Mr Bartenstein has already put this issue to the fore. But unlike you, Mrs Mag. Honey – unfortunately, it is not here now – I do not want to confine myself to criticizing, but I would also like to present some concrete suggestions for improvement. I see a concrete need for improvement, for example, with the part-time workers already mentioned today. On the one hand, it is necessary to facilitate the change from part-time employment to full-time employment. For example, further qualification measures by the AMS should be promoted not only for the unemployed but also for part-time workers. On the other hand, there must be the possibility of carrying out qualified activities in this form of employment. This means that the offer of part-time jobs may no longer be limited to positions up to the middle occupational hierarchy. I also see the need for reform in connection with the so-called amendment announcement. Based on German law, the employee should be able to accept the employer's offer of change subject to the fact that the proposed change in working conditions is not socially unjustified. This is the case. the worker should be able to review the illegality of the amendment without having to put his employment relationship at risk. These few examples already show that, in addition to labour market policies, reforms of current labour law are also needed. The budget we are dealing with today offers the opportunity to actually put in place the necessary measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26213	The next point is Mr Grastaur's speech. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26234	High house! Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Dear young friends at the gallery! [[Abg. Großruck: These are not your “young friends”!]] - To me, they're young friends. [[Call:And girlfriends]] - And friends. Of course, of course; thank you for the correction! [[Abg. Großruck: Young they are, but not your friends!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Maybe it's our friends!]] I would now like to come to my statement. Mr Minister, if you say that you are expecting the unemployment rate like the EU, I would like to say that the basic accounting methods for the EU should first be dominated, because that cannot be true. With 3.5 million employees and almost 300 000 unemployed people, 4.4 percent cannot come out. That's what everybody knows who's sitting up there on the gallery. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The second is: Thank God the economy is fine. The reason for this is, Mrs. Haubner has already said it, and I can only agree with it, that it is prudent companies, that there are skilled entrepreneurs, that are skilled people who work here and who are willing to carry on a little bit. There is a very good framework programme, the international economy looks very, very good. If one had not taken the economy to the political gangbands in the 1970s and 1980s, it would probably have been much better today. I recall the time when there was a Voest Works Councillor Ruhaldinger who called Mr Kreisky and said: But we don't do that, and that was the story from the table. When the ÖVP reached: Mr. Dr. stupidly, you really excited me yesterday, I have to say, when you did, as if you had nothing to do with the debt our state has, these 190 billion, at all. I would like to say once again: The ÖVP was almost always there when debts were made in this state! You can't be here... – Good, Mr. stupid. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I will explain this to you in four eyes afterwards!]] Then I'm excited about how you're doing! [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Just lazy excuses!]] I would like to say to the ÖVP’s “economic competence” that you lost it at the moment when – after you have always explained in your Sunday speeches that the additional wage costs need to be reduced – one of your first official acts was to increase the additional wage costs by increasing the health insurance contributions by 0.15 percent. This is a sin for the economy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can tell you how to reduce additional wage costs right away: In addition to labour costs, these are the taxes of the labour factor, which are always an obstacle to employment and result in a deviation in undeclared work, in employment of a minor kind, in disinheritance. The tax burden on non-income labour is 17.5% of GDP in Austria and 4% higher than in the EU. As measured by wage and salary costs, this tax burden is 42 percent and is therefore 9 percentage points higher. Everything would have to be done to at least address GDP, EU averages. Immediately, the general accident insurance contribution could be reduced by 10 percent. Businesses pay 1.4 percent of wages each year, and in excess of 10 percent each year. It wouldn't have to be. At least that would be as much as now when the health insurance contributions were raised again. The second point is the Insolvency Guarantee Act. The contribution in the funds in question could also be reduced from 0.7 to 0.4 percent, because there are always surpluses here and because the old accounts are much lower than planned. So there's already something we would have to do with the additional wage costs... Yes, 0.3 percent there and 0.14 percent there. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] That would be the first approach to this. The second – and this is actually the most important – is: It is essential to remember immediately reducing the red tape and administrative costs for businesses. There, according to EU calculations – and these figures can be followed – are 4.6 billion in savings potential inside, because a World Bank study says that Austrian companies spend 272 hours in order to properly prescribe, calculate and finally deliver taxes. In addition to comparison with other countries in Europe: 76 hours the Irish, 87 hours the Norwegians, the English 106 hours – so all are substantially below. And that's what you'd have to do. The Federal Chancellor said yesterday that he would like to make an exchange of information or similar. I think it would be necessary to introduce a separate working group for this area, and I would like to cooperate with this working group. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26349	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26370	The speaking time is not so voluntary. She's so divided. I'd like more time to debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26386	I would like to set a different time, Mrs. Colleague. You just have to tell me.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26401	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. An inspiration perhaps for the next debate on the economics chapter – not only for the audiences in the gallery, but also for us: Perhaps we should focus the line of speakers on a little topic and a little blockage, so that we can also have an honest, open debate and an exchange of contributions. That's not the case. I do not mean the quality of the matter, but from the points of view, it is a bit of a candid discussion, and it is not very easy to join a speaker who has spoken ten contributions to tourism before. That's what I'm referring to now. I can cut short, because Mr Hörl has shown with facts and data what an important part the leisure and tourism industry has in the common value added of GDP. This is an argument as to why the Federal Government's commitment in this area is necessary. Another argument is that we say classical tourism will remain country-related, but the problems that entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs face in the tourism industry are international, trans-regional and also global. And from this point of view too, a federal commitment in this field is essential. What's our job? – Our task is to ask us in the field of tourism and leisure industry the questions of the future and the debate on the future and to support operators, workers and employees in dealing with the problem. In addition to the traditional core tasks in the future, it is mainly about expanded framework conditions. Spatial planning plays an essential role, as does labour market, education, education, science, accompanying research, to name just a few examples. This needs to be taken more into account when considering and developing problem solutions in the future. However, it is also a matter of mentioning small self-evidents that the federal government, where it adopts new requirements, directives, laws that affect tourism and the leisure industry, is also committed to support such as: We all confess to stronger non-smokers protection. This affects the gastronomy, and if there is an instructuring, then we also need to consider what form we are supporting the businesses and the workers. That's just a very small example. I am pleased that, contrary to the picture that the coalition gives out to the outside – and sometimes inside – where it seems that there is very, very much sand in the gear and sometimes also vanity is in play, at least in the area of the Tourism Committee is not the case. There are many different opinions, but above all there is a very strong, committed team spirit, because we all know that neither our guests from abroad nor our Austrian guests carry a party mesh or the proof of origin in the form of a mesh. There is a form of cooperation policy, which includes the discussion and does not exclude it, but where, in the end, solution and problem-oriented work is being carried out. This cooperation connects us, and I wish the Tourism Committee to maintain this climate of cooperation within the meaning of the workers and the farmers and farmers. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] 11th@item: inlistbox 08
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26449	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26471	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! If the economy is going well, people will be well – if the difference between corporate profits and wages is not too far apart. [[In the case of BZÖ, as well as applause and bravorage at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Brosz: You've come to the opposition again, gal?]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I have always thought of this before, Mr Brosz, and I have always remembered that. You also know that during our government participation, the “new” settlement has also been introduced, an idea that has grown in our group. At the time, the ÖVP was still very strongly opposed, but now the Second President of the National Council has said that it was their invention. We have had to convince you for a long time, and the SPÖ has not been able to do so anyway. But we have finally succeeded in implementing this, and now, Mr Federal Minister, I think you will give me a right, about two million workers are in the new system. So this has proved successful, and the Chamber of Commerce is also discussing the introduction of this system for the self-employed, because it is of course minimizing in profits and is also taking appropriate precautions there. The small businessmen have always had small pensions on average. It is about the fair distribution of economic growth and value added. Of course, we need a well-functioning economy, economic growth, so that we can implement everything else in social policy, because otherwise it will not work. And if the economy is doing well, it simply must not be bad for the workers. This is a basic condition. The aim is to have full employment and fair wages, to adjust the income level to the shopping cart – housing, energy prices, rent and so on. But the burden, unfortunately, is increasing to a greater extent than income. This has been the case since the 1990s, where you have borne the main responsibility. [[towards SPÖ]] We have not been able to change this during this period, since the time was too short for us in the government; I have to say that too. Car park charges in Vienna now rise by 50 percent, public transport prices by 12 percent, mineral oil tax is increased by 3 cents at petrol, by 5 cents at Diesel; the 3.6 cents in petrol and 6 cents in diesel is included in VAT. In addition, the Austrian is taxed €440 million annually. The pendulum fee is increased by 10 percent, which is 18 million of the total, so far too small. Incredible: 4.1 billion euros a year are cut off to the driver in this area! And you, Mr. Federal Minister, are now talking about flexicurity, of the Danish model. Flexicurity sounds very good, sounds like social security. If a person falls out of working life, he is immediately “beginned. ” - But where? Now he has a job, which is five, ten, 20 kilometers away, and then he has to take a job, which is 90 kilometers away. This means of course higher travel costs, no question: at 90 kilometers it is a multiple. There is a need to consider a lot of things so that you can get away from the pendler's fee to a pendler's allowance, which is kilometers dependent. This will also be the future, because when we talk about a mile-dependent toll, we also need to talk about it, otherwise it simply doesn't work because the costs are too high. In Carinthia, yesterday, a colleague of the ÖVP had been cut off and replaced by a kilometres-dependent donor aid. [[Abg. Riepl: The 160 km/h racetrack has also been abolished!]] – Yes, it has also been abolished. It's a shame that she's been abolished, because I'm on the highway a lot and I have to say: Each small car travels faster than 140 km/h. That's a joke! If you drive on the motorway and drive the Gendarmerie – or now the police – next to one, you can pass at 140 km/h. There is something else to do to shape road traffic and things in a timely manner and get under control. [[Abg. Sburny: Is that a call for a breach of law or what?]] Federal Minister, the Federal Government is discussing the mobility premium. You said if someone moved from one federal country to another: 2 000 €, your colleague Buchinger said: 10 000 €. There the opinions go far apart! And on the other hand, you also call for EU enlargement to be lifted this seven-year transitional period earlier that experts from the Eastern European countries come to us. I must say that these countries themselves have too few professionals. The indebtedness that we have too few professionals lies in Austria, because if the economy does not train professionals, then we simply have too few! That's the manko. The economy has high profits and has nothing to do with training. That's the dilemma. – Where does the applause remain in the social democracy? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] - Well, that's it! As far as training is concerned, Mr Federal Minister, I have to say that there has been some happening in recent years. The policy has created a real framework, whether these are qualification measures or the dual vocational training has been extended with a teaching with Matura. Carinthia is an example in this field of teaching with Matura; it costs nothing there either. Another measure concerned the teaching of the part. Only, Mr. Federal Minister, if the people are sent from the AMS to a farm, every company says: I don't actually take that from the AMS. - That's kind of a flaw. And there is a need to put on the lever, because it simply is not possible for people to come to the labour market to be qualified but then not accepted by the companies. If there is a further disparity between corporate profits and wages, the unemployment rate and the minimum wage will be increasing. The government is now going here and saying: We make a minimum guarantee of €726 whether someone works or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] 726 € gross for net, Mrs Colleague, and a minimum wage of 1 000 €: You'll be there for half a decade. You need to raise the minimum wage a little higher. I suggest 1 300 €, because the difference is not 1 000 to 726, the difference is 850 to 726, because net people get only 850 €, they still have to deliver the social security contributions. [[OBJECTIVES]] That's not how it is! Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Work has to pay off again, and this miscarriage is quite simply eliminated. That's what Henry Ford realized, because he said: Cars don't buy cars. My employees have to earn so much that they can afford the cars as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26590	Next, Mr. Dr. Maier. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26627	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to Mr Dolinschek's remarks, you will find a saying: “A victory has a lot of fathers!” – what he said about the “reparation” was already very interesting. I remember – I think it must have been 1998 –: [[Abg. Riepl: The trade unions have demanded it first!]] There was a fundamental agreement between the then President of the Maderthaner Chamber of Commerce and Wolfgang Schüssel, and the social partners subsequently began to negotiate. It's become a law of someday. Fortunately, Mr Dolinschek has not prevented this. So, in that sense he already has to thank, but as I said, the discussion has, of course, been a little longer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there are also victories where there is only one father or one responsible person, and if I look at the statistics of the business settlements and here the performance of the Austrian Business Agency in Austria, I have to say that is really a success story. I have chosen a few years, and when I look at 2004, where the Austrian Business Agency has brought 107 companies to Austria, 48 of them to Vienna, and one year later 123 companies to Austria and 60 to Vienna, I can only say that is incredibly pleasing. As Wiener, one should not only be pleased about it, but also conclude that the pressure of the Federal Government's economic policy was so great that it was even possible in Vienna to set up businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Vienna Economic Fund has also made a contribution here. Thanks to this fund, another 14 farms have been established in Vienna. More than happy is the decision that Borealis, the sixth largest plastic group in the world, is coming to Vienna. And the reason for this is of course also important: One of the competent gentlemen meant that the tax situation in Austria was crucial. Corporate tax is 25 percent lower than in Denmark at 28 percent, in the UK at 30 percent or in Belgium at 34 percent. This would also benefit from group taxation. So you see, these are measures put in place by the Federal Government, of which Vienna benefits greatly, and I hope that the Members from Vienna will see this as positive as we see it, and that a discussion will be held, at least to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26682	The next item is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26704	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. Appreciated guests at the gallery! I am referring to three points which are dealt with in this chapter: the competition authority on the one hand, the promotion of tourism and the promotion of exports on the other. The first, the Federal Competition Authority, is already asking why partout is necessary a second institution, the Bundeskartellanwalt, in this form. In the preliminary draft budget accompanying law, in the ministerial draft, there is certainly the proposal to set up a common institution here – as always that looks exactly who always has the weight. But this proposal has de facto disappeared. We have both side by side again, both the Federal Competition Authority and the antitrust attorney. And, Mr Minister, it is the Question: Why is the next step not to be taken here when it comes to efficient economic structures? To the area of tourism and tourism promotion: No question, tourism has a central position in Austria, has a high priority, both with regard to the regional economy and with regard to the situation of jobs. And of course, it has certain functions to improve the environment, improve the quality of the location. And this site of ÖHT, which deals well and competently, as well as others in the ERP Fund, is still confronted with regulations where the question arises: Is that still true in this form? This also applies to the issue of promoting Alpine infrastructure. Mr Minister, we very much miss that there are forward-looking concepts here. If you look at the field of ecological orientation of tourism and the focus on it, then you have to realize that it has been a very long time since your ministry commissioned studies in this regard or came up with final products. The last studies in this area are over half a decade old, and since then a lot has been done, insofar as the awareness process in relation to climate change has been strongly forced and it is clear what impact there is; it is very likely that a new draft with regard to the funding criteria will be introduced. What does this mean in terms of energy efficiency, in terms of Alpine infrastructure? – It’s about time to think about the future again here, too. An area that was a priority – to our regret: smaller – year ago, is the subject of accessibility. Accessibility in tourism is not just an economic issue, but a human right. If funding is used, then an infrastructure is to be built that is accessible to all people. And even if it is conjured that this is very likely to be the case in the construction regulations, there are numerous examples, Mr Minister, which illustrate: There are public funding of both the federal government and the Länder and local authorities, and it has not been taken into account that the building is accessible to everyone and everyone. – As I said, it is high time to take another step here to anchor that. The export offensive and cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce are certainly a real and an important step. The foreign trade agencies we have do excellent work. The export offensive works very well. Mr. Kopf! You don't necessarily have to mess up the clap. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We're proud of it, no question! What we see neglected, however, is the topic of environmental engineering industry. The area of the much praised, much higher-level environmental engineering industry is very well represented – for a trade delegate – consciously forced, but still much, far too little. We only need the markets in Southeast Asia to look at South America: a huge potential! Mr Minister, it is not only about these people doing their work very well on the ground, but also about the question: Which home market do we have? – And that is where the appropriate steps need to be taken. As we know, the framework conditions – eco electricity law, other framework conditions – are not optimal, sometimes very bad. It is therefore necessary to make improvements and to take the next steps. New ways and major steps into the future are necessary here, also in the sense of reorientation of economic and tourism promotion, as well as the heavy Point in the export economy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26785	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26806	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! A few minutes ago, colleague Graezeit of the Freemans said that it would be good to reduce the accident insurance contributions by 10 percent. . I think you have the confidence to say so, because Mr Walch is no longer here, because he would probably go to you immediately, push you into a corner and say in his construction work language: Hey, wait, it's about funding accident pensions, financing rehabilitation and financing prevention, and we need the money, we can't cut it! So you have made this proposal, but we are certainly not for it – and I do not think others are. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The structure of the economy has naturally changed over the last few years, and the legal basis for this has changed, and the conditions for workers have changed. When you look at the development, you see: After the period from 2000 to 2006, we have 12 500 more jobs in our country, over 100 000 more jobs – these are not persons, because often there are several working conditions – and many new regulations have entered into force, including from the EU, and we still have 100 000 accidents per year, unfortunately not with declining tendencies. The burden on workers has increased, health protection in the workplace is becoming increasingly important, and I am therefore on my subject, on labour inspection, Mr Federal Minister, and it is of course also the work of labour inspectorates among these aspects that is becoming increasingly important. The number of visits of the workplaces by the labour inspectorates has decreased – this can be seen from this last report of the labour inspectorate – and one reason, of course, is that the checks have become more time-consuming and there is a lack of staff in the labour inspectorates. Between 2000 and 2006, there were ten planning places in the field of foreign service – that is, real labour inspectors we have less; more workers, but fewer labour inspectors – as we have seen 44 planning posts in total, because 34 more are still in the administrative field. I have nothing left but to say: Somehow I have the impression, Mr Federal Minister, that you are starving the labour inspectorates a little. And I think you might think about whether you should not make any quicker corrections. Of course we have to save, we know that, but saving in the wrong place is always wrong saving. And saving at the expense of the safety and health of workers is, I believe, the wrong thing at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Thank you for the approval of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Seven nods agreeing.]] I see you nod. So you're supporting me. My request to you, Mr Federal Minister, is therefore: Let us try to look together, perhaps also with the secretary responsible for the establishment plan, at: How can we get more staff for the labour inspectorates because more Do tasks, more workplaces, more controls, more working conditions really need to justify this? In this sense, I ask you to accept this issue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26867	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26888	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Dr. Mitterlehner, with his statement, said: If the economy is going well, then the workers are fine!, today the keyword I also like to refer to. I'm glad the economy is fine. This is, of course, the basic condition. We have achieved undisputed export success in recent years. We are also pleased because we are safeguarding our jobs through exports. That is good, and I am glad if it gets even better if the Austrian export industry has even greater success. That's good for our Republic, good for the workers. But – now the big “but” –: What this statement “If the economy is good, it’s good for workers”, it’s far missing in reality, and there are objective facts that demonstrate this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have here an article from the “Small Newspaper” of the summer 2006 with the following title: ‘Managers could double Gagen in 5 years’. - Double in five years! There are also statistics that are still going deep in this regard. For example, in the case of the board members of larger Austrian companies, it seems that within the period from 2000 to 2006, the board members of the OMC enjoyed on average an increase in board remuneration of 367 percent, andritz: plus 309 percent, The First Bank: plus 230 percent, RHI: plus 249 percent, up to voestalpine: plus 140 percent. Thus, in these areas there have been huge increases, while on the other hand – and this also proves the statistics of the Chamber of Labour, and this has also been called a relatively unwarranted daily with a large headline in the summer of last year – the situation among the workers is exactly the opposite, namely: the “money bags” are “empty as never before: Every second regret”, with the significant signature that 51 percent of Austrians say they hardly get over the rounds with income. – So that’s not what we’re saying, but that’s the situation that is moving right now. [[Abg. Reheis:... responsible for that? – The responsibility has the black and blue...!]] As you know, Mr Reheis, we did not agree with most of the decisions of this coalition. You know that! It is therefore not very correct to push this into our shoes. We want to slow down the gap between the poor and the rich. We want to see workers' incomes, of course, as in the same period – from 2000 to 2006 – on average, workers' incomes rose by just 10% and thus did not even make up for inflation. That is the truth! In the discussion, it is always said that life has become more favourable that the euro is not a teuro, that what is claimed so often in the media does not agree that there is an error of account or a mistake of thought, because it is necessary to take into account inflation rates. – There are also very interesting studies by the Chamber of Labour, in which the opposite is claimed here, and exactly what the majority of the Austrian day per day feels, namely that the wallet is becoming more empty, so that many do not know how to get over the rounds as early as the middle of the month. For this period of comparison, between 2000 and 2006, there are also official statistics dealing with the increase in the price of bulk goods, which say: Over this period, from 2002 to 2006, a kilo of Rindsschnitzel has experienced a price increase of 40.2 percent after deduction of the inflationary increase of 11 percent, which is already calculated! A litre of whole milk has become 13 percent more expensive – already after deduction of inflation-related price. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Rädler and Mr Kainz, as well as other calls to the ÖVP.]] Or: A piece of pastries by 21 percent! So, dear friends, the statement: “If the economy is good, then workers are fine,” unfortunately not! We'd be right and cheap if it were. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Please shout You're not always in between! It must be the task of this Parliament and this House to improve this situation. If one now uses and looks at another national economic code, one finds that this also speaks volumes: Corporate tax revenue was around €3 billion ten years ago, in 1996, and was around €4 billion last year. That is to say, in fact, inflation-adjusted, there has been no increase in corporate tax revenue at all during this period – while the wage taxpayer, the simple employee, has paid 50 percent more into the register of the state during the same period: In 2001, still € 11.6 billion in wage tax revenue, about € 18 billion last year. – In other words, this imbalance can also be clearly read out by means of objective national economic figures. Well, under the line it's like this: I think there is no one here in this House who argues that the economy should go well – everyone wants it, we want it! – that we should have export success, but we must see that we also bring these successes down to the average worker, so to speak, that this one really feels a more in the wallet! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's still a huge divide! As a Freedom Party, we will work intensively to deal with the huge gap that exists here. Although my speaking time is almost over, I can also say the following to tourism: I am glad that we have a climate in the Tourism Committee where very constructive work is being done between the parties and political groups, and this should also have a very constructive effect. Mr Bartenstein, the Minister of Economic Affairs, for example, as I have noted – you know, of course – that the grant from the Ministry to Austria has remained constant advertising for 24 million € for 10 years – which means, in fact, a substantial reduction in the grant from the Ministry for so important Austria advertising – I will try with colleagues and with you to try to ensure that we have at least paid off the money from this area, at least a 10 percent increase in the grant so that we can help the Austrian tourism industry through the application. In this sense, I would like to ask the Tourism Committee to support this intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26955	Next, Mr Wöginger. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e26976	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! I would like to welcome to the gallery my employer, a delegation of the Upper Austrian Red Cross with President Pallwein-Prettner at the head. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and congratulations to representatives of the SPÖ and Bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] This budget, ladies and gentlemen, will continue the successful labour market policy of recent years. The downturn in unemployment figures are also evidence that the budgetary measures that have been put in place and which are also put in place with this budget have taken place or are also taking action. This double budget also provides a priority for an active labour market policy. Around €10 billion in a total budget of around €70 billion will be invested in the labour market in the next two years. Especially for targeted qualification measures, additional € 204 million per year is spent. Especially in the field of youth employment – and this is a particular concern to me, ladies and gentlemen – this budget is a priority. The extension of the Blum bonus for apprentices, the further development under the Youth Training Security Act and also a guarantee for a teaching or training place until the 18. Year of life: This, ladies and gentlemen, is important measures that are being taken here for our young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The concept of good work – Mrs State Secretary, I am very grateful that you are taking up this issue – is an important and right signal towards workers. The government programme contains a number of important points which I would like to make briefly: For example, the reorganisation of part-time age. This is an important instrument for our labour market, and there can be improvements and simplifications for the future because it also allows the labour market. Or, in the field of working time flexibility: The four-day week, the supplement for part-time workers in multi-work are important points. Finally, the topic of employee participation, which has already been addressed several times here: Yes, we are going this way – and we are going together! – in order to reduce the gap between profits from companies and wages. I consider it a very important measure – but hand in hand between companies and workers – as a good, acceptable solution to be found. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and congratulations to representatives of the SPÖ.]] The budget is the basis for our being able to implement these measures. As Members of Parliament, we will ensure that they are implemented as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27057	Mrs Haidlmayr's next speech. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27079	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Minister has already left. The unemployment problem we have in Austria does not interest him, especially if he has to expect to face hard facts and facts that there is nothing to rejoice and laugh at in the labour market. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: No polemics, Mrs. Colleague!]] According to the motto: I'm great; everything I do is great, and all those who say something else I don't listen to!, the presence or non-presence of the Minister is clearly documented here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer: Do you start a speech like this?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – who apparently always have to sit somewhere in a darkened chamber – have managed to keep away from every reality, even from the reality that there are many and far too many people who are working and do not find work. [[Abg. Rädler: We don't know that, do we?]] They are not lazy, ladies and gentlemen, as you always put it to them! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] [[Abg. Prince: Get a little bit together!]] [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] They also have no desire for your social hammock, which you always put under them and whatever is documented on your part! [[Abg. Murauer: Hopefully you don't believe what you're talking about!]] [[Abg. Kainz:... Frustreed!]] These people simply do not find work because the labour market does not want it, and therefore does not want it because it is people with disabilities. Every requirement of the Greens that one must at last increase the compensation tax so that it really is a “strafe” – under quotation marks – for the company if it does not employ anyone who is disabled, has been rejected by you. You would rather buy yourself even in the future at dumping prices, i.e. around 200 € per month, which you can then even reduce your tax profit, free of the employment obligation for people with disabilities. That's much better for you. [[Call the ÖVP: Who says that?]] That is why you can also live well and uncomplicatedly in your black glass house and do not have to deal with the realities we have on the labour market. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Stumbling, because you shake your head, I only spontaneously cite three so-called individual cases: A young man, 30 years old, trilingual, German, English, Spanish, Spanish as a mother tongue, HAK degree ten years ago – unemployed, not only for 14 days, but for six years. He is therefore unemployed because he is disabled. From time to time, he may enter a company for a short period of time – but only for as long as this company can cash the maximum financial grant. If disabled workers hack like an academic, perform a performance such as an academic and only cost what an apprentice causes in the first year of teaching, then they can stay already, because such cheap workers never get back, then that's all right. However, if the entrepreneurs are to pay a decent wage for disabled people, a decent salary, then they can, with one word, “smart” or “roll”. There are not a few, Mr President, who have been told by their employers: If you drive money so I can keep you busy for free, then you can stay! – This is the reality on the labour market, documented with only one example now! I'll tell you something. There are many people to whom a pension application is pressed into their hands by the AMS, according to the motto: “We don’t find any for you, go to pension!”; well, knowing that most have no prospect of a pension, because they haven’t been working for so long. They should then be “smart” into social assistance, mainly because they are out of the statistics outside. – This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen! 33 per cent unemployed people with disabilities – these are 29 per cent too much compared to unemployment in non-inhibited people! For this 29 percent you have no answer, and that is not because this group of people is not interested in you at all. You are not interested in these people – and the expression of Mr Kopf tells us the rest, there is not much to add.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27229	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig's next speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27250	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Estimated visitors to the gallery! A few words to my previous speaker from the Freeman, to the colleague Hauser: The need to improve the situation of workers in terms of income is quite a matter of concern to me. Your opinion, but I think that the current Federal Government has taken some very good steps in this direction, for example with the agreement on €1,000 basic income. [[Abg. Strache: There are 800 €!]] This is a very, very important step towards closing the line between corporate profits and wages of employees. Another very important contribution is to implement the need-oriented minimum guarantee, and also to receive future supplements for part-time work. All of these are measures where the Social Democratic manuscript can be felt and clearly read, and I am very proud of that as a Social Democratic. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Work, ladies and gentlemen, is a central issue of the Federal Government's programme, work is also a central issue for every individual person. The Federal Government has set itself a very ambitious goal: to reduce unemployment by 25 percent by 2010. A great deal of effort will have to be made in this direction, and I think that an effort must be made – as many of my previous speakers believe – to increase the quality of labour market policies in particular, to ensure that quality goes above all before quantity. But – and I think this is a very good sign – the resources for active labour market policy are at the same level as in 2006 – and that in the case of declining unemployment rates! This makes me very confident that the quality of labour market policies will actually increase. As a Member of Parliament – as I am of the same opinion as Mr Wöginger – we simply need to see that these ambitious goals of the government are also being implemented and that, above all, the targets of the AMS supervisors go towards quality and not so much towards quantity. But I would like to, because the talk is always about bad courses and bad trainings, even once a lance for the employees of the AMS break. I can say from my home district that the regional AMS office there is an excellent, well-functioning AMS regional office. We had an integration rate between 71 and 84 percent in the field of youth measures in the previous year – this is remarkable! – and for this, the AMS staff and especially the employees in the training and spa activities pay great thanks. There are not only bad ones – there are also good ones, only they are spoken of far too little. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Finally, I would like to draw attention to a measure which is particularly important to me and which I also ask the State Secretary to support, namely the so-called non-profit employment projects and socio-economic enterprises. In these establishments, excellent work is done. Long-term unemployed people, long-term unemployed people are receiving work, retraining and qualification. In my opinion, these are labour market policies that can be assessed not only for their costs, but above all for the benefit of people, and I would ask you to support Mrs Marek.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27299	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27320	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If the economy is going well, then workers are fine. – Here it sounds reversed. This seems to me like the discussion: What used to be: the hen or the egg? In fact, this is for you, dear friends of the SPÖ, a dispute about Emperor Bart, because it was you who left the competences for the field of labour in the Ministry of Economic Affairs during the government negotiations. You can't be surprised if you can't really believe what you're proclaiming. Yesterday, Mr. Finanzminister Molterer criticized the liberals in so far as he said: You drive up the walls and the borders, and that's very bad for our economy if we can't expand. - We didn't say that. For example, our colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, yesterday criticised the fact that the cheap workers who come into our country lead to wage dumping, which is true, but which is only part of the criticism. The second part relates to the foreign megagroups, which buy up excellently working and well-earned Austrian businesses. That's what I'm asking myself: What do you think that means? Of course, there is a great one-time effect by perhaps putting something else into it, but that is always dangerous, because when a large businessman comes, many jobs arise at once, but if he changes the geo-graphic situation or the location of his business due to lack of acceptance, these jobs are all gone at once. Next point: If a large group buys up an Austrian company, then only one suffers, and that is the employee. On him is a huge pressure; I was able to experience this in the course of a great merger myself. I'm wondering, Where's the union? Where are the works councils? Well, the union has enough to do with itself, and then the works councils seem to be bought – at least my guessing – by the big company heads so that they are pretty quiet. They are only more limited to organizing excursions in which no one takes part because the people are burned out. [[Abg. Reheis: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Bitch: Cerberus! BAWAG!]] I'm curious how the BAWAG employees will be after five years. They're already trembling about their jobs today, and it's not that funny – I can tell you that. But let's also light the budget a little. A few years ago, it was decided to introduce Basel II as a basis for credit, credit rating and financing, with the rules starting from 1. It is necessary to apply mandatoryly in January 2007. If we were to highlight the budget under the Basel II criteria – quite frankly – the government would not be a model student, but a maximum magic instructor. Any entrepreneur who needs funding in order to be able to expand shall demonstrate his or her eligibility under very strict rules. I am of the opinion – I know because I come from this area – that we need to think thoroughly about, review and review these rules and guidelines. I now come to a very different point, which has to do with the entrepreneurship promotion of Austria Wirtschaftsservice GmbH. I asked you, Mrs State Secretary Marek, two times in the Subcommittee on the promotion of young entrepreneurs, for which, last year, only 51 000 € were paid to Founder Bonus and “Fantastic” 31 000 € in Young Entrepreneurship Funding, quite specifically, but you did not answer me twice – perhaps you will do it today. This is a disastrous situation for me, because the young entrepreneurs are a very important group in Austria. We should encourage you to take on responsibility, because finally, 95 percent of Austrian entrepreneurs are small entrepreneurs – and young entrepreneurs are all the more so. This is a very important point, because they actually create jobs. If you are looking for a promotion today, you will first and foremost get a liability for it, an 80 percent default liability on the part of the aws. That's where the cat bites in the tail. Then: It comes from the young businessman, who usually has no equity, to the bank, who wants to borrow a loan which he does not, of course, receive because of the Basel II criteria, because in the rarest cases he can also contribute a security to it, and then it says: Get a liability from the aws! – This is not so easy either, because there are relatively complicated rules. In fact, it is true that the liability of aws only has very limited material value, because the rules that would be obliged to pay this liability in the event of a credit default are so strict that they are in fact not considered by the banks to be ineligible, and then again Basel II goes and the young businessman has little chance of coming to money, except he has previously saved it, and that is what we all know – in the rarest cases. I therefore invite the ÖVP: Let us have a discussion about a change in the promotion of young entrepreneurs! It would be far more important here, in my opinion, to assume that the young businessman is thinking of himself at the outset: What do I need to do? How much money do I have to spend at the end of the day so that I can live well on it for a year or more? – Most people don't know that, I can tell you that from my professional experience. That is where we have to start, and not drive the young businessmen from home into a debt trap, which in any case only very difficult to escape.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27392	The next speaker is Mr Deputies Head. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27413	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour is also our Ministry of Energy and therefore also responsible for a very important area in terms of our economic location, namely to ensure the sustainable development of our energy industry; what, as I have already said, is an enormously important location for our economic location. Two comments on this. First point: The liberalisation of the electricity market, which we have carried out in accordance with an EU directive and which we have implemented in Austria, exemplaryly and far better than many other countries – and which have implemented almost unanimously here in the House together – is a success story. We have saved the electricity consumers of our country through this liberalisation about €500 million in electricity costs. 500 million €, that's 7 billion schilling in the old currency. [[Abg. Street: In Vienna not, there the mayor increases!]] But that has other reasons, Mr President. The fact is: In total, we have saved ourselves a lot throughout Austria and can thus contribute to improving the competitiveness of our economic location. Second point: One will become particularly important in energy policy in connection with environmental policy in the next few years, and that is the question of energy saving and energy efficiency. I think that, not with this budget, but over the next one, two years in the forthcoming negotiations on financial compensation, we should take on an essential lever, namely the promotion of housing. During the next financial compensatory negotiations, we need to push for a massive increase and achieve a success in promoting only residential buildings that meet the highest demands of energy efficiency. Vorarlberg makes it clear to us that from now on, for example, in non-profit housing, only residential buildings that have a passive energy house standard will be supported. That's a very high claim. If at least we could help to break through the low-energy house standard on housing development everywhere, much would have been achieved. Only when we will be successful in this area will we be able to achieve our high climate targets. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Who will stop you?]] I also ask the BMWA to participate in the financial compensation negotiations so that we can achieve this objective in the promotion of housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27463	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. I put the clock at the desired 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27484	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It has now been repeatedly underlined by representatives of social democracy, including a previous speaker, by the Social Democratic manuscript in the chapter “Work”. I would remind you that your party president and Chancellor promised before the election that the chapter “Work” will remain in social democratic hands, with the Minister of Social Affairs. – This promise has not been fulfilled either, for it has been transferred to the ÖVP. But the interesting thing is that not only the agendas and a formalism “work” have been transferred to the ÖVP Minister of Economic Affairs, but that you have also spiritually fully adopted the chapter “Work”. For three hours now, we are discussing issues such as minimum security – brought by you yourself – minimum wages, workers' problems, and not a single second has been seen by the Minister of Social Affairs so far. He doesn't care about that anymore. He has already agreed on this issue because he no longer has any competence. That is the categorically saying goodbye of the Social Democrats to this responsibility. ==References== May you will sing again: Work up! – but no one is interested in it here in the high house anymore. Social-democratic manuscript – yes, where in the chapter “Work”? Is it possible that the ÖVP might have filled you with black horror ink when you wrote it? – It then dissolved, and the red manuscript remained. Do you know how she looks then? - That's it. [[The speaker holds up a white sheet of paper.]] This is the red manuscript in the chapter “Work”. And do you know what's worse? – When you turn it around, it looks like it is empty. An empty sheet of paper! There is no red social democratic manuscript in the “chapter” work. That's very worrying, because you always think that's your topic and that's your area that interests you so much. Only: You're not interested anymore! They have also abandoned the workers, such as the skilled workers. It is true that we are not at all in agreement with the Minister of Economic Affairs that we are now opening the Eastern Market for foreign skilled workers and at the same time still having 7 000 skilled workers in Austria in the unemployed. Where's the Social Democracy? Where's there? You're yelling? [[Abg. Riepl: Where have you been in recent years?]] Where is the Federal Chancellor who has promised that he will not allow this and has fallen? – You know, wide-screen television, only more in the sun lounger. No one understands that anymore. Where's your job for the skilled workers? - We're off. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs – if he comes again and takes part in this debate again; he has been gone for a long time now – we are against this, because you have our resistance! We do not understand anything yet: why you always promise to implement our idea of the investment wage model, namely to involve workers in the profits of companies, but perhaps only in 2010. But the employee has no more of that. We need this now! Now we have overwhelming good profits from the companies. The OMV, the Telekom – all write profits by plus 50 percent over the last ten years. But what did the workers get? – On the other hand, what they have got is a cardboard handle. What is Wifo's forecast? – 0.9 per cent, 0.5 per cent, maybe 1 per cent, and that's eating up the tax again. The tax will eat up the wage increase – this is the issue! That is why you need to make a tax reform that will help you to benefit from the investment wage, the participation of employees in profit! Then we will have a good development, then suddenly it will not be about a few percentage points, but then, in a good year, an average employee can have once again 10, 15 percent wage increase. Why not if the company works well if the worker works well if there is a high profit? I think that should be done – not just in 2010! The reason why I have spoken today is – I stay there – also the development at BAWAG. Since, ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy, I lack any understanding that you are going to be covered. Where are the human rights experts from your ranks? Is it not an incredible community, what happens there: that, on the basis of their origin, bank customers are discriminated against, discredited and excluded from banking, as happened at the Red BAWAG, under the red Director-General Novotny, who, in full awareness of this fact, has completed the sale to Cerberus? This does not matter to him at all, and he is immediately ready to throw all the human rights principles overboard. This does not matter at all when it comes to protecting people of other origin. You really demasked yourself, and we don't understand. It is not acceptable that the Americans prescribe to us who in an Austrian bank is allowed to be customer and who is not. – We cannot accept that, we reject it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I say it again: If the Americans are just funny, then next are the Syrians, who knows, or the Libyans or maybe even the Russians – wonderful, but if that is the case, then we can really really question the banking and economic location of Austria. That is why we want this Federal Government to adopt this issue and take seriously the support of the Cuban ambassador from yesterday as well as the discussion that is taking place. Therefore, together with Mr Bucher and Mr Darmann and other Members, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This could happen, for example, through the supervision of the financial market, which we have already used in this case. In this context, we are very excited whether the Austrian banking secret is guarded there. This is important to us, because this concerns the most actual data of bank customers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where you jumped on our train! Riddlers!]] Data from origin and personal data from bank customers against customers have been misused – and this is an abuse of banking secrecy. That is also what we are calling for and we want a clear opinion on this. I hope that the Minister for Economic Affairs or the Secretary of State of the Government will give an opinion from the Government: What does that look like? Do you accept that or do you not accept it? We don't want to accept that! We want you to take tough action here. We do not want bank customers to be discredited and that bank customers, no matter where they come from – innocent people, innocent citizens – do not have the opportunity to do their banking in an Austrian bank. If the bank does not change this and if there is no improvement here, then the Republic of Austria should consider subtracting its banking – and this is a lot of banking – from this bank, re-subscribing and handing over a truly Austrian bank with ordinary rules of play.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27576	That of Mr. Klubobmann Ing. The motion for a resolution tabled by Westenthal is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27668	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27690	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, Mr Klubobmann, you are right, of course, as far as this Cuba story is concerned with the banks. It may also be yours or the other clubs: Next or next week is a Cuban economic delegation here in Parliament, and we will probably discuss this in a very detailed way. I believe that this is in the sense of the whole Parliament. Mr. Gerald Hauser – he is not here now – has actually begun the redistribution debate very well by saying that the differences between manager salaries and salaries and employees' wages are exorbitantly different. I remember that 14 days ago in the National Bank with Claus Raidl a survey on redistribution and tax policy took place, and Mr Claus Raidl – he was once chief advisor to our colleagues on the right – has himself meant that the managers today deserve the 50 to 100 times, without the stock options and without the additional things that this is almost unchristian. However, I do not want to quote him now, otherwise there will be another dispute in the coalition. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But at the top is the Ruttenstorfer!]] Mrs State Secretary, in the Committee on Budgets, we talked about three possible Achilles Fersen. One is the energy issue that needs to be dealt with very quickly. The second is tourism. The consequences of climate change for tourism, especially winter tourism, which is affected by the fact that the snow borders are moving up, cannot be stopped by Christian-social values. Rather, it probably depends on the Lord, how deep it snows down. That is why we – and the tourism industry is an important industry – without being ridiculous now, we really have to go new ways. Colleague Melitta Trunk has a survey on 24 April. May be invited. The third point: Specialised job shortage and apprenticeship situation. It's been done a lot lately, but that's like a drop on the hot stone: 800 specialists from abroad. . Today we have heard from the Minister of Economic Affairs that by 2009 50 000 skilled workers will be missing in Austria; in this case the 800 will not make the herb fat. Let's compare the numbers: In the 1990 ’ s, 170,000 pupils were still trained in Austria, now only more than 112,000! If we are then proud that from last year we have increased to 3.6 percent – as you said, Mrs State Secretary, in committee – then this is a small progress, but not the solution. What do we need? – We need new re-training measures quickly, we need new over-company training facilities, because apprentices usually become skilled workers, and if we need 50,000 skilled workers in Austria by 2009 or 2010 we have to make national efforts across all party borders. If the skilled workers are missing, the economy is no longer doing well, and then it is questionable how long the businesses are keeping their locations in Austria or whether they are not moving in the course of industrial tourism where skilled workers are. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to work together on the issues of shortage of skilled workers and over-company training facilities across all sides of the party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27739	Mrs Marek, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27761	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I come to the real points of my speech, I would like to focus on the statements made by the previous speakers. Mrs Haidlmayr, as we have already discussed in the Committee, spoke about disabled people seeking work and said that it is blatant here. There are increases. This is primarily due to a statistical effect, and Mrs Haidlmayr also knows. It is true that a special programme was introduced by the labour market service in the “Year of People with Disabilities” last year, in order to support particularly disabled people on the labour market and to provide them with support. In order for more people to benefit from these benefits, not only persons with disabilities who are classified in the Federal Social Office’s guidelines have been taken into account. On the contrary, 2 500 people could be supported, and 500 more will continue to be supported by this programme. I believe that this is a very important issue in the context of active labour market policy when it comes to caring about the weaker and the very weak in the labour market. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Riepl has referred to the labour inspection, and I would also like to say something about it. You are, of course, aware of the savings that have been necessary in the Federal Service in recent years – and we all confess ourselves to that too. Since 2000, savings of 14 percent have been necessary and have also been enforced. Minister Bartenstein was particularly important for sensitive matter in the field of labour inspection, in order to ensure and enforce safety at work and job security and also to make improvements, to make as few savings as possible or to implement them. He was able to achieve a total reduction of 3.2 percent in the field of labour inspection. So in this There is almost no reduction in staff to ensure that work there is continued. Mr Zanger referred to the promotion of young entrepreneurs. I can tell him: In this area there is an increase in the budget by €2 million, from €4 million to €6 million. The young entrepreneurs are particularly important to us, and that is why we also take money into our hands over the AWS. Replicate your statement on the works councils: Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, at this point, to thank the very dedicated, active works councillors in all Austrian companies and to express my appreciation for their often unthankful commitment. I believe that the works councils are important partners for the economy in difficult times as well as in successful times, as is currently the case. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Mrs Lichtenecker said about her criticism of environmental technologies and the international economy: Especially when I visited South Korea at Easter, where I was allowed to accompany the President of the Federal Republic of Korea, environmental technology was at the heart of the discussions of the economic delegation. The President of the Leitel Chamber of Commerce has set an important priority here. That was, as it were, one of the highlights of this journey of economic delegation. So this is also an important aspect! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Allow me now to come to the real points of my speech. As you will probably know, Mr Bartenstein has entrusted me with very central priorities in my responsibilities. This includes, first and foremost, the issue of women and young people in the labour market. The important issue of youth in the labour market has been discussed here in several debates. It has already been mentioned, with the demand to promote more in this area and to set up more activities. However, I would like to start with the issue of women in the labour market, which has always been a concern to me in terms of women's politics and is also a very special concern in my current work. We set ourselves the goal of increasing the female employment rate by 3 per cent in the Government Convention. We have already been on a very good path in Austria in recent years. We have overshadowed the EU's targets – we are currently at a women's employment rate of 63 percent. Over the course of this legislative period, we want to achieve an increase of 3 percent. And there is another need for the full employment rate of women, something that is very important to me personally as a woman. We have been able to push down and massively reduce women's unemployment with numerous measures and priorities in recent years. According to the data of the end of March 2007, we were able to achieve a further reduction of more than 6,000 people and almost 6 percent of women's unemployment. So a good success! The funding budget in this area was and continues to be high accordingly. In 2006, more than €425 million was earmarked for women's projects. These were used as part of the active funding budget of the AMS. This will continue in 2007. For comparison only: In 2005, it was only €304 million. So there is a very massive increase in women's support. In the context of employment promotion, almost €100 million was estimated and almost €300 million for qualification measures and aid. So there are nice numbers too! It is particularly important for women that the AMS massively also promote and finance life assurance during participation in measures. This is an important measure especially for women who have care obligations in many cases and for this reason cannot be available to the labour market as is often the case with men. In 2006, 51 percent of the gender-specific budget for women's measures was made available and used, although women – and I believe it is important to note that, because it simply illustrates the dimensions and the relationships in question – only 43 percent of the total beneficiaries or their share of the unemployed. Again this year, in his guidelines to the AMS, Federal Minister Bartenstein set an amount of 50 percent of the active funding budget from the AMS for women, so to speak. There will also be other priorities. This will then be determined in accordance with the measures and activities of the AMS in this year. In general, gender mainstreaming is an important aspect of the AMS policy and targets and has to be carried out accordingly from the beginning to the end. A very important priority for women is the return to working life after family breaks. This year, within the framework of labour market policy objectives and targets, around 20,000 women – and this is a significant number – are expected to re-integration into working life after at least six months after a family interruption and to support them in keeping their interruptions in working life accordingly short. Some 15 000 will be involved in further training measures, which are very important after the interruption. An important training priority is also: Health and care professions. I think it is particularly important that many qualified sub-time jobs be created for women in this area. It is even one of my priorities to force and expand the qualified part-time accordingly, because, as we know, part-time is very, very important for many women and is also very much asked for. Ten times as many women are looking for a part-time job as is currently reported in Austria's open sub-time jobs. Initiatives are also important to bring women and girls – especially on today’s “daughter’s day” – into non-traditional professions. Here are the initiative “FIT – Women in Technology” and the program “MIT – Girls in Technology”, which is available from the AMS. Here too, there are very target-oriented incentives for companies, from which businesses, as well as the girls, who are trained and motivated for non-traditional occupations, benefit. We already have such successes here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of my responsibility, there are very important projects in the context of re-entry planning. Before the exit, the return should be planned accordingly. But my commitment also applies to family childcare. In the area of young people – this is the second major area for which I am responsible; also mentioned in several debates – we took a lot of money into our hands, because the young people of today, the apprentices of today are the skilled workers of tomorrow. We know that, and that's what the companies say. I think every euro here is a double and multiplely earned and invested one that expects and returns. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Funding for the target group of young people from the active funding budget amounted to €311 million in 2006. Of course, funds at a comparable level are available again this year. All the pillars of youth employment and youth training have been and will be strengthened. Of course, for those young people who do not live in an industrial training centre, there are still the over-company measures in JASG courses. There is also the strengthening of the flower bonus. We continue to write this with a planned evaluation in order to take active action in the enterprises. A short note on the flower bonus. I think it is important to see how many apprenticeships would have been lost if we had not introduced the Blum bonus into the companies if we had not set up this initiative. Many teaching companies have been threatened by bankruptcy or closures. All these places could also be picked up by the flower bonus, and the level could be expanded or kept. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Allow me to say the following: An important initiative will also be to strengthen the reputation of teaching, to improve the image of teaching, and to bring the excellent businesses and young people with their achievements before the curtain. This is also one of my initiatives. Finally, I would like to thank and acknowledge the officials of the House who have been very supportive of me during the budgetary negotiations or during the preparation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27906	The next speaker is Mrs Fürntrath. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27927	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Keywords: Labour inspectorate. – As a woman, I say to you: I am very, very glad that there is now this new regulation of labour inspection, which the Minister has provided us so to speak, because in recent times it has already been in such a way that methods that have almost reminded us of second-world war story. And we don't need that in the economy as a practitioner at all. No increase – we can't need that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We want to work. We ensure that our employees are protected. It is only necessary to look at the statistics on accidents occurring in the establishments. It has a decline. [[Abg. Riepl: 100 000 accidents at work a year! No decline!]] The number of accidents is clearly reversed. Second keyword: Disability. – Unfortunately, Mrs Haidlmayr is not here at the moment. I have to say: I am very glad that Mrs Marek, Secretary of State, also commented on this. I'm concerned about the aggressiveness of the sound. We particularly employ disabled people in small and medium-sized enterprises. And we've had good experiences with them. It is a matter of course for us to work with people with disabilities. And we work well with them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to thank Minister Bartenstein and Mrs. State Secretary Marek. I believe that we have with them two people who are visionary of the work, who are competent and who also have the necessary endurance. The fact that the government has been working very well since 2000 and the ÖVP has proven competence will continue to show this, because we have never had so many new start-ups, we have never had so many women who have founded companies. [[Detonatative condolences of the Abg. Dolinschek]] One example of this is the Styria. In Styria, 37 percent of women's refoundies were put on their feet, and I think that's great. – Mr Minister, good luck! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dolinschek.]] 12. 22
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e27984	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28005	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I am not quite clear with some of the speakers of the opposition, for: On the one hand, it is complained that there is too little consolidation, on the other hand, additional expenditure is required for the various areas. I would like to say a few words on the subject of work. – The high level of unemployment costs the economy in Austria very, very much money. For us, ladies and gentlemen, unemployment, especially youth unemployment, is not a Mickymaus theme. The government has set itself the goal of creating more employment, reducing unemployment, in particular youth unemployment. We must reduce the proportion of young people who do not have completed vocational or school education. With the training guarantee for those under the age of 19 the young people either receive a apprenticeship or the opportunity to attend a training programme – no deadlocks in education policy! However, I would also like to address a delicate issue, a subject which the opposition repeatedly addresses, namely the question of the possibility of dismissal for apprentices. If you are already quoting from the government programme, please complete and correct, because a mediation procedure that has to be concluded in advance for the possibility of termination is imperative. Then there is also the reception guarantee in case of actual termination. If one compares it with the current practice – and it probably knows every one of you very, very many apprentices who have left the apprenticeship from their own pieces because they have been muttered away, and they have no reception guarantee – then one can imagine the situation that is actually the better. Now also a few words on energy. – Our life is very energy-intensive. What we need is more independence from fossil energy sources and greater independence from states with partially underdeveloped democracies. In Austria we have it well, because we have very high potential through the richness of water. On the other hand, we must also build up our own energy production, taking the greatest possible account of environmental protection. The Ökostromgesetz 2002 has triggered a real approval boom in alternative energy plants. The Ökostromgesetz 2006 is assessed differently: In the 2006 Eco electricity Act, operators and founders do not see the big throw, but rather legal uncertainties and financial burdens. I am here to quote the chairman of EUROSOLAR and the World Council for Renewable Energy. This means, after describing the good conditions of Austria: All the more incomprehensible is the current ecostromnovelle. It would de facto act as an Ecostrom Prevention Act. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we urgently need an evaluation of the eco electricity law and a transformation before the furnace is literally finished. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28063	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28084	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Thanks to the successful and efficient economic policies of the governments of Schüsel I and II, we have developed a leading position in the international comparison. The strengthening of Austria's economic location has succeeded, and a very positive development has taken place, not only for the Austrian economy but also for the Austrian labour market. I would like to mention some facts that have changed since 2000. . Compared to 2000, we now have around 191 000 more employees and jobs. 165,000 new companies in Austria could be established. € 15 billion in infrastructure investments was made. There are 165,000 child care providers in total, about 89 000 more than 2000. Export sales could be increased from € 40 billion to € 107 billion. The current account could be increased from minus €6.3 billion in 1999 to €8 billion in 2006. That, I think, speaks for itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The ÖVP and its government team will make every effort to keep this successful economic policy on track for Austrian citizens and thus the Austrian economy. Ladies and gentlemen! Innovation and qualification are important foundations for sustainable and economic success. In the double budget 2007/2008, the corresponding budgetary measures will be taken. Some of the priorities are as follows: € 378 million for research and technology support. We will thus reach the planned 3 percent of GDP by 2010. In addition, there is € 204 million for the qualification offensive. And €930 million as an additional contribution to active labour market policy. We will achieve full employment by 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28129	Next, Mr Kirchgatterer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28151	Mr President. Valuable Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This double budget for 2007/2008 differs very positively from that of previous years. It provides for important measures for an active economic and labour market policy. I would like to mention the large investment programme for infrastructure, the increase in support for research and development, the mandatory vocational orientation at schools for successful entry into our young people and the increase in support for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is particularly important for small and medium-sized enterprises to increase their support. The Austrian operating structure is characterised by this operating size. On average, an Austrian company has between eight and nine employees. Small and medium-sized enterprises generate a significant share of the value added in our country. A considerable number of unemployed people have their jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises. The Federal Government will implement a major tax reform during this legislative period. The relief of workers, the relief of small and medium-sized enterprises will strengthen domestic demand, boost economic growth and combat unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, I am convinced: Austria's economic and labour market location will be better in 2010 than in recent years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28188	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. Voluntary time limit: also 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28225	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If the economy is good, people with disabilities are fine! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Disabled people are not only clients, but also workers or even entrepreneurs. It has already been said that the unemployment of disabled people has increased slightly in the last year, but that is, as State Secretary Marek has already explained, at a statistical effect as a special support programme for the integration of people with disabilities in the first labour market was offered by the AMS and a large number of people who had been reported as seeking employment indicated their disability to the AMS. No notice is required by the Federal Social Office for this purpose. However, the indication of the AMS has nothing to do with the classification by the Federal Social Office as a beneficiary disabled person according to the Law on the Employment of Disabled Persons. I am also increasingly and very often confronted with disabled people who are looking for a job that is well-trained and also very fit for the labour market and still do not find a job. However, there is also a need to look at the causes, and I believe that there is a cause for prejudice among companies, but also, and this is also an important reason why protection provisions have simply overtaken themselves that they have become counterproductive. It is therefore necessary to have a dialogue between the economy and those concerned in order to create framework conditions which are also in line with the new developments. But I would also like to take this opportunity now to comment on the new housekeeping law, and would like to thank Minister Bartenstein for this initiative. If he had not sent this bill six weeks ago against the resistance of many to review, we would still be zero at the hour. So there is a draft law on the table, which is very good, but in my view it still has two things to consider. One is that the law only aims at care and that care is not currently provided. The reality of disabled people, however, looks different. It needs care and care, and therefore it also needs a change in the health and nursing law, so that easy care measures are also possible especially in 1:1 care. We do not want to form a new professional group, but rather the lay helper should be trained by professional helpers, by professional professionals to the individual needs of the person concerned, and it also needs monitoring, an accompaniment to ensure the quality of care and care. The second regulatory requirement concerns dementia-induced people who are usually classified in the care level 1 or 2. However, financial support by the public sector is only provided for from the level 5 of care. People suffering from dementia, however, need a 24-hour care, and I think an exception would be very useful here. This is where Minister Buchinger is required. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28276	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary time limit: also 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28297	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! Mrs. State Secretary! Our colleague, Mr Huainigg, has just shown us what economics can be, what challenges come to society in order to create a framework for disabled people who guarantee an equivalent and undiscriminal opportunity to work and live in that country. We have already discussed today – Mr Mitterlehner has given the start –: If the economy is good, people are fine! Over the course of this debate, this has developed more and more in the direction: If people are fine, the economy will be fine! I think that is also a good point of view. [[Admissibility with SPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's it!]] [[Abg. Sound: That's how it fits around!]] We know: If there is little unemployment, it relieves our budget, our federal budget, it increases tax revenue, it brings purchasing power, the consumption is stimulated, and the satisfaction of people, society and also corporations is then given. Of course, we have always and permanently to challenge an innovation process, to develop our social system, and of course it is a challenge for our economic policy that the taxation of industrial enterprises and SMEs should eventually lead to a harmonious relationship, because in each case this is always distorting conditions under which an SME is competitive vis-à-vis a group. As Austria is not a low-cost country, nor should it be, the sustainability of human resources must be given. Training and further development in the second course of education are therefore also a major challenge for our economic policy, and we are also very much required in this area. Not least: The promotion of innovation is a very important point. We will discuss it even more intensively today, but innovation will take place when new developments, new processes, new products are on the market. As we know, there is also a need for improvement. We simply have to try to gain even more risk capital to invest money in Austria for this, so that innovations can be put on the market faster, even though there are, of course, risks for such investments, as we all know. There are still possibilities in this area to improve, to produce tools that enable creative people in our country to realize rapid innovations and become marketable with their products. However, I believe that there are already very good conditions in the overlap areas of the Ministry of Economic Affairs – BMVIT – research and science. Here a very good system of coordinated innovation is developing, and I am very optimistic that we will be very much moving forward here in the next few years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28353	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28375	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Today we have a very good labour market situation in Austria and an excellent dual training system, which is implemented to 75 percent in our small and medium-sized enterprises. 75 percent really offer excellent training and training places. However, there are also additional projects such as the apprenticeship reception network, during which 1 200 places are available in Lower Austria. Here, too, three out of four young people will find a job, and they will also be fully charged with this time. The teaching workshops have also been addressed today. There are also teaching workshops in private enterprises today. In Lower Austria, however, we have the problem of staying free of seats, and therefore, together with the AMS, the country of Lower Austria has decided on a project in which precisely these places are filled up with the support of the country and the AMS, so that we can also benefit fully from this training. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: The applause was not very intense now!]] An additional project that exists in Lower Austria is the free follow-up to apprentices, and in these one and a half years around 550 young people have noticed this offer. German, mathematics and industry-specific topics are those areas where there are real problems with the participants. One simply sees that it is necessary to have a lot of commitment in order to ensure the training of young people. Currently 126,000 apprentices are trained in Austria. A warm thanks to all our trainers! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Especially the girls must be very close to our heart. In Niederösterreich, 765 apprentices are currently trained in a hairdressing teaching, but unfortunately only seven motor vehicle technicians and six electrical installation technicians are trained. In my opinion, there really is a great need for follow-up, and I would like to thank you, Mrs State Secretary, for your great commitment to change the image of the girls, and for your commitment to youth as a whole. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28423	The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28445	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! I would also like to comment on this chapter and, in particular, on the problem of young people and apprentices. It is gratifying, and we have already heard the facts and figures in the Committee that more than €250 million will be used in the next year for the training network for job seekers, but also for the "Blum-Bonus". After all, this is a very large increase, considering that the amount of € 142 million was only available in the last year of training. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to me, after Mrs Marek's theme of the reception network was explained in particular in the field of figures, to find out exactly how this network and, above all, this training guarantee works in concrete terms. It is not true that we have no difficulties in the labour market with youth and apprenticeship employment, on the contrary: We have over 4,000 young people in Austria, who are still looking for an apprenticeship. In my home country alone, there are 600 young people who are currently looking for an apprenticeship. It is therefore important that we implement this training guarantee already in the coming months. Another point – that is particularly important to me – would be: In order to obtain additional funding, the creation – and I think we should talk about it too – would be a training fund that should ultimately serve as a burden compensation. I think it is important to mention that many companies, small businesses, but also large enterprises, are taking on a lot of financial resources to finance training, and thus ultimately make important investments for the future. And I don't realize that there are companies and businesses that finally offer a few cents more after this phase, and so the apprentices are discarded from these ventures. I think all should pay in these funds in Austria, but those Enterprises willing to invest in the future should also be encouraged accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28490	The next speaker is Mr Obernoster. Voluntary time limit: also 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28511	Mr President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today I was delighted to hear in the debate that the small industry and the middle class are also the big darling of the opposition parties and that we should fight more for this area. [[Abg. Sound: Always been!]] [[Abg. Singer: Please leave it!]] However, I do not take note of the accusation that the ÖVP is too little for this profession. I would like to make it quite clear here that in the Second Republic there has never been as much done for the small stock as in the government of Schüssel and our Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I also hope that this love will not be over in the next tax reform, but that support for small and medium-sized enterprises will continue to be given. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Very soon and quickly at the European Football Championship: Minister! This 6 million € special budget for the application and the million € for the location determination – I think this money is well arranged. A study says that at this time there will be €196 million more in value added. There will be more jobs in this time due to the European Championship around 4,000 jobs, and we should have around a million more nights in Austria in 2008 due to this event. We should all be against the fact that this European Championship will be a great success. Whether Austria will be a European champion, I may doubt, but we can hope so. What I believe, however, is that Austria will be Europe's champion as a tourist country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28574	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. That's your second word. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28596	Thank you, Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I have hoped that the reply of the Secretary of State on the subject of labour inspection will at least give rise to a small look at the light and say, for example: Yes, we would like to do it, we do not want to cut further, we also know that we need more, but unfortunately, this message did not come, but I have tried it again now with a second word. On the second subject very briefly. Your colleague Mikesch said: We have an excellent dual training system. Well, if we have to put thousands into a net, then something is wrong with the “fine. ” If supply and demand do not match, you cannot speak of excellent. It would be excellent if the dual system were to work in such a way that everyone seeking an apprenticeship would also receive an apprenticeship, and in this context it would be very interesting – this also in addition to the Mr Schopf's speech from my group – to see how many businesses could actually train and not do it. I think that should be the focus, namely also on motivation. I have the impression that the focus will now be placed on those who already train – take one more! – but not with those who have not been permanently training so far. In this context, it might be very good to think about the following, even if you are already bringing in 800 foreign professionals, especially in metal professions, into the country: I would simply say in your place, the companies that have trained at least so far and have a need, they get, but if now one comes and says, I need skilled workers and would like to have one from the 800er quota employment permits, then I would be hard at your place and would say: Have you been trained! You won't get anything! So I think you should also increase the pressure in this direction, because only the praise and help and the search and the “do it at last and do it too!”, unfortunately, that is not enough as we have seen. In the interest of youth, I think we should go a little more in this direction and make nails with heads once. We would like to join you when you hit these nails or when making heads.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28641	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28662	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! A two-year budget is not only a country's policy, but also a prospect of future state policy priorities. Work and business are inseparably linked, and one does not work without the other. Business is successful then, companies are successful when employees are successful. We saw in our companies a division between labour productivity and wage development. That is also the reason why our Minister of State, our Vice-Chancellor, is concerned that it cannot be the case that the separation continues in this direction. Employees need to be more involved in the profits of companies. I am glad that the ÖVP is for a partnership. It is true that companies have earned well, and it is right and necessary to take a step towards “fair share”. Some successful companies in Austria practice this and rely with great success on the potential of the employees. I believe that employee participation models also safeguard national interests so that internationalisation and globalisation in medium-sized companies lose part of the horror and that this feeling of “the above” and “we’re down there” somewhat exacerbats. This class struggle is past and actually passé. Parting employees in the success of a company strengthens their own responsibility and motivation, but above all strengthens the commitment and responsibility for the company, and this is successful. However, it is also important that employee participation models are not forced to be congratulated, but that voluntary models are promoted that are negotiated and achieved at the level and in partnership. As an EIA worker, I am pleased that the EDP is heading in this direction. I am confident that in the future, in the next two years, much will move.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28705	The next speaker was Mr Eßl. Voluntary time limit: also 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28726	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Good economic data also means jobs for our country. The measures put in place by the last government in the past legislative period have indeed already been taken. It has not always been measures that have been praised. For example, the Köst reduction was criticized, but it worked. If we look at the figures in this budget, we know that this has in total led to an increase in corporate tax of € 1 billion. The figures show, accordingly, that this has worked in other areas. When I look at the current account: There is a surplus of € 10.8 billion in goods and services. That means value creation, that means jobs! This successful policy will continue in the coming years. Funding for active and active labour market policies amounts to €1.8 billion in 2007 and 2008. That can only be welcomed. I should also like to point out that this 2007 and 2008 budget has been able to reduce the government debt ratio again below 60% of GDP since 1993. I notice, of course, that a speaker on the part of the Freedom Party complained about the debt policy of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: He's right!]] That's what I looked at. In recent years, when the ÖVP was in government, it has succeeded in generating a primary surplus of €19 billion since 2000. In contrast, when the liberals in the government were in the years 1983 to 1986, debt rose by 20 billion and thus almost doubled compared to the initial position, and a primary deficit of €10 billion was generated. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] That's the difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this 2007 and 2008 budget, we can look to a good future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28786	In part, the economy and work are no longer available to me. This is the subject that is being dealt with. I thank Mr Bartenstein and Mrs. State Secretary Marek. [[12:55:37]] Transport, innovation and technology Chapter 65: Transport, innovation and technology
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28819	We are now entering into the negotiations on transport, innovation and technology; Chapter 65. I would like to congratulate Mr Faymann on this. As the first speaker, I give the floor to Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e28849	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On this beautiful spring day, I really want to start the traffic discussion in front of this semi-empty house very positively. Mr. Minister, thank you very much to your staff, especially in your cabinet! Information and cooperation is really better than before. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, thank you also for granting the ÖBB for infrastructure investment in 2007 and 2008 €80 million more and €86 million more! That is, compared to earlier, all kinds of things! Mr Minister, a third thank you very much also for the increase in public services, including the ÖBB. We have a little more for passenger transport – I think, plus 6 percent – for freight transport plus 11 percent! So that was the kindness, Mr Minister – and now we come to the hard facts. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Oh, oh!]] [[further calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Now it comes!]] Yes, of course. Mr Faymann, you are responsible for transport, infrastructure, research and development. I really wonder which heart beats in the right heart chamber and which in the left. Remember: Their “transport infrastructure heart” includes an investment requirement of €10.4 billion. 10,4 billion €! On the other hand – I say now, perhaps the left heart – we have research and development, and the Federal Government wants to reach about €1 billion over the entire period. Mr Minister, we have already talked about this. The Wifo, the European Commission, various experts worldwide, World Economic Forum Davos et cetera always say: Research and development – this is your “1-billion heart” – is important for the economy, for employment, overall for the forwarding of states, of communities. But you do the exact opposite: A tenth of what is invested in infrastructure, that is, a maximum of € 1 billion, goes in the sensible direction, and a tenfold of this useful money goes into the negative direction, into the infrastructure financing direction! I would also like to differentiate, Mr Minister: The track, which also counts, has a massive rethinking need. I have already praised you; these plus 80 million and plus 86 million, plus 11 percent and plus 6 percent I have already cleared out. Overall, you say great: 6,4 billion € go for the rail and 4,3 or 4,5 billion for the road on it. But when you look at it very carefully in your budget issues, it turns out that it is exactly the opposite in this area in this legislative period: There will be more funds in road construction and fewer funds in the ÖBB by 2010! Mr Minister, don't be angry with me, but there you are behind the standard of your predecessor Forstinger! At Forstinger it's still called: two-thirds in the track, one-third in the road. But they invest more in the street, especially in this period. There's our criticism quite, very massive! I already have to say, Minister Faymann, that transport budget with these dimensions – I now call ASFINAG or undiscovered ÖBB debt – I think you are already in the background of the Republic, but this is nowhere in the budget at present! That's what we'll get from 2010 et cetera. Mr Haberzettl has already sat stupidly brutally in the previous row and knows how to sing a song of it. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] This imbalance, Mr Minister, is particularly evident in the use of the new M order revenue. That's disastrous! They finance the climate killer number one: You finance road construction, you finance the Lobau motorway, you finance something as crazy as the Westring in Linz. These are loud climate killer investments instead of taking the money and putting it into research and development, especially in the better “software” in the better development of public transport. Let's look at your budget situation even more closely; let's look at how much more traffic associations get and what's regulated in the public law. We have practically a slight rise, but it only covers the increase in the price of fuels, the buses to serve this transport. We have practically a zero-sum game in the financing of public passenger transport, especially in the bus sector, a red zero-sum game, I would like to say, because there is a constant deficit there anyway. New resources for new transport services, for cycle traffic, for better connections et cetera – please, there is no such thing! You say you went up from 7 million to 11 million. I just don't find that in the budget! Mr Minister, because we are supposed to speak positively today – given the first of the lunch mood, second of the spring mood – I have also brought you a positive signal, something you should use more strongly, and something you should miss out on. Use the bicycle helmet strengthened, Mr. Minister! [[The speaker holds a blue bicycle helmet in the height.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: A blue one!]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Blue, this is always beautiful!]] [[Further calls.]] For your sake, I have chosen the blue one; you have to be in the opposition of an opinion. And it's also suitable for green, isn't it? Minister, the bicycle helmet stands for efficient transport. [[Abg. Broukal: Could you take a red helmet?]] - Yes, please. We can also make colorful helmets, a few red spots on them. All you have to do is take it, colleague. So: Radiation clearly stands for the most energy-efficient transport sector. In the car, only 1 per cent of the energy used is used; in the bicycle, it is a multiple of what you eat, Minister, which is used. Remember, Minister: climate protection! The bike is simply the most climate-friendly means of transport. Mr Minister, rides under five kilometres are easy to handle by bike. How did you get from the Stubenring? - I'm afraid by car. Maybe next time you could really take the helmet and come by bike. [[Abg. May. Hauser: But now you have to hand over the helmet! Otherwise, he can't go home!]] Last argument: Health, Minister! Why don't you talk to your colleague Kdolsky? She'll be happy to see how healthy you get when you're on the bike more. That's where we should invest, we have to put something in there! But let's look at your budget. Look After: for bicycle zero, zero, zero; not even zero comma Joseph! Minister Faymann, change the yellow helmet of the tunnelers against the colorful helmet of the cyclists! That would be my positive suggestion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29006	Next item is the report by Mr Eder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29027	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I should like to thank Mrs Moser for the fact that, during the lunch break, she has all done something wrong again. Now everyone is back and can follow my speech very well. So if so, that was a success, Gabi Moser! Secondly, I can only give a brief replica on what has been said. When I think that in Vienna the cycle network for a large city is almost complete and complete – except for a few smaller pieces – we have done a lot of cycling, I think, as social democrats, we have done a lot for cyclists. I think you can say that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we should now take the opportunity to say, in principle, that we were able to work out a clear new perspective in the area of infrastructure again. I hope that, now, continuity in this important economic and political situation will be achieved. The area has come so that it can be made really good and active again. From today's point of view, it is clear that funding for all these projects, which have already been mentioned here in part, is also a clear priority. That is what we have called for in the last seven years. Although a general transport plan has been drawn up, this general transport plan was a wish of all the federal states, with all the questions and wishes they have had; however, it is never really about financing, it has never really been discussed about setting priorities. Now we have the clear situation, the clear confession: Focus on rail; away from the road, to the rail. These are clear signals in this budget, which is also provided for in the structures of the railway and the ASFINAG. This means, in figures, that: 4.6 billion road, 6.4 billion rail; this is a clear differentiation. What matters to us – this is very important, and this is confirmed by the Federal Minister wherever he appears – is that the increase in freight traffic that we have to expect due to the enlargement of the EU – and that is a lot! – can not be handled on the road, but must be brought to the rails. This is why a great deal of investment is being made, especially in this area. This is important for the population, especially in those areas in Vienna, where there is now a very strong and clearly noticeable presence on roadways such as the Brunner Straße or the Prague Straße of East Transport. That is why it is also important – and I would also like to thank Mr Faymann – for the fact that the regional ring around Vienna is now finally being built. It is simply unbearable when hundreds of trucks travel through residential areas in Vienna and are not diverted around the city. I have already stressed it: the first priority is the rail; but reality is so that we also have to live accordingly with the trucks. In this sense, I think we are good on the road. I may add that in this legislative period, we will set a number of priorities, including road safety. Those parts for which we have promised evaluation – such as light per day or other road safety measures – will certainly be revised, and it will be tried to bring this into a really good and new form. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29085	The next item is the speech by Mr Vilimsky. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29106	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in particular Mrs Moser, I would say: Give yourself a back, take the bicycle helmet, and give this Minister Faymann! He already beamed like you told him. Otherwise, you'll put off suspicion that it would only be cheaper green populism if you wave with the bicycle helmet, but don't take the second step and actually give the bicycle helmet to the Minister so that he can be happy to be on the road in the city by bicycle. [[Abg. Sburny: Then he put himself in the car! That doesn't mean anything!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You just say that...!]] [[Further calls.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, before I come to the special chapter on transport, allow me to make a fundamental comment on the budget debate. It is 183 members of the National Council, changing ministers on the government bank, a variety of officials and employees who debate this budget for many hours, many days, until evening and night – and the terrifying thing for me is: It doesn't even change a cent behind the comma! There are proposals from all political groups, good or bad proposals, which, of course, depends on the viewer's point of view. But why is it not possible for the House itself to allow free majority formations away from a rigid coalition structure and allow good initiatives to be included in the budget? – Otherwise we will save ourselves all the magic, take it from the ministerial bureaucracy, compare it with the party secretariats and the leaders of the coalition parties, and that is the budget. But just as it happens here – where nothing changes at all and the whole thing is so rigid – I see little sense in the whole thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague Karlheinz Klement will then address the issue of road and infrastructure in detail. I would like to focus very briefly on the burdens that both governments, the past and the present, have on drivers. The time is short, so I shall put forward a motion for a resolution. The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to submit to the National Council, as soon as possible, a government template concerning a change in the relevant legislative instruments in respect of the discharge of drivers in the points of increasing the Km money to 50 cents, an increase in the general amount of traffic reduction, which has remained unchanged since 1989 with EUR 291, thereby reducing taxes for all workers, fair fuel prices through more competition control and transparency, abolishing the obligation to ‘light on the day’ and introducing replacement marks for cars and motorcycles.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now you could say: All of this comes from the blue polemic kitchen; it's not financeable, it may not be good. Do you know what that is? – This is a concentrate of the demands of the red driver association, the ARBÖ! I generally believe that the ARBÖ is a car driver's representative who actually knows where to go; only her political arm, the SPÖ, is unable to actually implement it. Let yourself be quoted by Dr. Hofer, the president of the ARBÖ – no unknown person from the SPÖ – from the magazine “FREIE FAHRT” on the tongue! According to this, the taxes of drivers now amount to € 12 billion per year. Dr. Hofer says: “Only nearly two billion are spent on the road infrastructure. A shattering misunderstanding that has shifted in recent years very heavily to the burden of the drivers. The load wave of the past few years broke over the drivers, especially the commuters, like a tsunami, because the government – that was you – “did not compensate for the burden. From 2001 to today, the additional costs for the drivers alone amount to more than four billion euros,...” This is a real analysis of the loads that have become quite unbearable. I mean, mobility must be a fundamental right and not a "crime" where people can be expressed. It's like a lot of people need cars – not because they have to drive around from Jux and Tollery, but from their place of residence to the workplace or want to go to the green somewhere with the family on the weekend. It is simply inappropriate to put these people out of the bag without social symmetry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What are you doing? – Instead of correctly recognizing as an opposition in the past legislative period, the cost of mobility to reduce the car drivers is also increased by 3 or 5 cents – the added value added value added tax – and thus create a yet veritable additional burden for the car drivers. The whole thing is, of course, transferred to the prices in the shelves in the department stores, creating an additional cost-effective effect for which you are responsible. They should also think in general. I have today tabled a request for negotiation in the Committee. This is about liberalisation, about the smooth liberalisation of Austrian driving schools. I have requested an opinion from all political parties and racing clubs. There have actually been only behavioral reactions. Do you know who congratulated me and said he agreed? – Your driver’s association, the ARBÖ. Against this background it would be good for you to listen more to your driver's association, instead of making a policy that is dishonest, because on the one hand, your driver's club, the ARBÖ, represents a policy with good interests, but on the other hand, you do not implement it. I say: Our position, the view of the FPÖ, is to significantly reduce the cost of mobility, for the drivers, even for single-track vehicles, because the loads in the past, I think, five years – I have chosen how expensive the rates were – have at least increased by more than €4 billion or by 30 percent. That's inappropriate, that can't be! Both of you – in the interests of the economy and you in the interests of the workers – should think about finally reducing the costs! – Thank you very much. [[towards ÖVP]] [[towards SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29205	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, Mr Themessl, Mr Klement, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29288	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29310	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Vilimsky laments the rigid structures in the budget debate that there are no more changes. – You’re not quite wrong, that’s right, but you’re double-duty on this question too. When you were in the government, you did exactly the same policy as now. Obviously it is that your location determines your position. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Vilimsky.]] This is also a reason why you have become so unbelievable in the population that you always take a different position at every point, depending on whether you believe that this is useful to you politically or not. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, in our view, transport and infrastructure policy is very positive. [[Abg. That's right!]] With this budget we are forcing the expansion of the rail. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why isn't that in numbers? Table 21!]] – She has priority, Mrs. Moser, so we create the conditions for the future of the site and for growth and employment in Austria. I do not need to explain to you, Mrs Colleague, that most of the transport and infrastructure budgets are financed out of budget, that is, not contained in the budget, but in rail construction, its redevelopment and expansion, as well as the new construction and expansion of roads, is financed extra-budgetaryly. The Federation is liable for this. From these budgets you clearly recognize that we spend a total of 11 billion this year, 6.4 billion on rail development, Mrs Colleague, and 4.6 billion on ASFINAG. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Yes, until 2020, but not...!]] It is recognised that there is a clear and clear priority for rail development. This also makes it clear that in no other previous legislative period so much money has been spent on investments in infrastructure. If you compare this with other countries, you can see: This is the triple of the value, related to the size of the country, as is the case in Germany and the 2.5-fold of the value from France. That is, we show that, as in recent years, we continue to give great priority to the improvement of the location and thus also to our opportunities as an economic location. The Wifo has calculated that this investment will increase GDP by around 1 per cent and will ensure 20 000 jobs in Austria in the long term through these investments. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But you didn't read that...!]] The opposition criticises that this also builds out-of-budget debt to the ÖBB, at which ASFINAG is built. – Yes, that is true, but ladies and gentlemen, infrastructure will also be created, which will also benefit from appropriate transport policy in 50 years and longer, and will also bring revenue, if, for example, we are thinking only of the railway charges and the motorway tolls that will still flow in 50 years. The current debt is thus refinanced accordingly and is at least financed by the user in road transport. I am grateful in this context – which seems to be a contradiction to what you are saying, Mrs Moser – for yesterday's statement by Mr Rossmann, your Budgetary Spokesman, who said – I quote – in this context: “It would be fine if, in this legislative period, we could perhaps agree that the financing of infrastructure expenditure is something you can and should finance in debt, and what is also well-foundable and gender-friendly.” Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing to add to this! This is what we are doing by this Federal Government, especially by the road and by the rail. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: That's the problem, right at the street!]] Ladies and gentlemen, of course the increase of the most in this context is also a certain advertising drop for many commuters and drivers. Nevertheless, we believe, Mr Vilimsky, that this most increase is quite acceptable for transport policy. It is also climate-politically reasonable, because we have achieved a corresponding steering effect by increasing the most. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That didn't happen well now! You've done a hard job now! It's not easy to explain!]] This is why it remains socially compatible, because despite the increase in the population in Austria, for example, fuel prices in all neighbouring countries – in Germany, in Italy, in the Czech Republic, in Slovenia – are higher than in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. Despite this most increase! [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We also create a fair and social balance for the commuters, especially in the rural area. There will be a new 10-percent increase in the pendler rate. In total, there has already been an increase of 35 percent of the flat rate in the last three years, since the last tax reform has also increased the flat rate rate. And with the introduction of a penalty of 90 € for the low incomes, those people who do not benefit from the increase of the penalty, ladies and gentlemen will also be relieved. It is particularly important for us that something is done for those who depend on the cars, however, because of their low income, cannot claim a flat rate. So you see, we are making a very strategic policy here, which is both environmentally sound and socially compatible. I particularly welcome, once again, my appeal to Mrs Moser, that the proportion of income of countries from increasing the budget should be used for the expansion of public transport. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Where is it legally anchored? Where is it legally anchored?]] There, ladies and gentlemen, we say quite clearly: Dear countries, your third share of the Meast increase will be invested in the expansion of public transport so that we can promote social and environmental mobility! In the next few years, we also want to force a public transport offensive. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: (showing on the clock) time! Time!]] A systematic expansion of tactile traffic is expected, an Austrian ticket is to be issued, because we all believe that public transport is a very important alternative in order to promote environmentally friendly mobility in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29476	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29529	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Granted, the resources for infrastructure projects are actually very high, because € 11 billion in total – 6.4 billion for rail, 4.6 billion for road transport – are extraordinary, but they are also necessary. Just how the whole thing is put together and how it is financed? – In principle, the whole, this largest driver load program, is happening under the cover of climate protection. [[Abg. Krainer: What does... Reichhold now?]] In principle, it doesn't matter whether this means CO2 emission, fine dust or other: It is a large “climap plant”, and it is only used for milking virtually defenseless drivers in our country. That's a fact. The counterparts in the rural area are asked to pay for the money. [[Abg. Krainer:... Tempo 160?]] I am right for Mr Kukacka to say that the money flows back through the use of the rail or road and so on. Income comes in, but: Who is funding this now? – In principle, they are to a large extent the commuters. And we in Austria have just 1.5 million of them; 600 000 depend on a car, which is more than 60 percent: that is a lot already! By the mineral oil tax, which is now raised: the spray, the gasoline, around 36 cents including VAT and diesel by 60 cents including VAT. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: 6 cents!]] Since we know that more than 50 percent of car drivers drive diesel vehicles in Austria, here will always find something where one is more harmful and then the other, and definitely people will... – 60 cents! – Yes, okay, 66, zero point... so it doesn't matter! [[Abg. Kurt Eder: 6 cents!]] [[Abg. Kurt Eder: No, 6 cents!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – So, definitely not 5 cents, but 6 cents, including the value added tax of 20 percent. You're right, thank you for the correction! - Okay. [[Abg. Krainer: How's gasoline?]] The fact is that in the event of a filling of 50 litres the people are already enormously burdened, and those who travel 30,000 kilometres a year – that is not a rarity for the counterparts – now the driving through this red and black government is expensive by 250 € per year. [[Abg. Krainer: I once had a car like that!]] That's not something! The pendulum rate is increased by 10 percent, which is relatively little. Mr Federal Minister, I very much support the fact that from the point of view of commuting, there is a miles-depending commuting allowance, which will also be effective within a negative tax, so that even those workers who earn relatively little but again have relatively high travel costs can get them back. There is an example of this in Carinthia, where we have made a kilometre-dependent fare for the individual commuters – starting at a distance of 5 kilometres – which is also valid for weekly commuters and toll pendlers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] – Yes, Mr Obernosterer, listen carefully to what is happening in Carinthia! Not cancelled, but changed – in any case, a significant improvement to the shuttle fee. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr. Federal Minister, the Vignette is a time-dependent toll, and you have announced in the course of the budget negotiations that you want to raise the price slightly next year – “low” means to you according to the consumer price index. So if the price is increased according to the consumer price index, in this case it is a valorization, but then I would find it fair to raise the other things where people get something back. You should consider that too! [[Abg. Krainer: You doubled the Pickerl 2000!]] One thing's going off to me: In Austria, according to the ASFINAG, there are between 200 000 and 250 000... – What? [[Abg. Krainer: You doubled! You've doubled the price!]] [[Call the SPÖ:... Pickerl...!]] But go, don't be stupid! Look, we're...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29706	Ladies and gentlemen, please take back the word ‘fucking’!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29722	I'm in favour of you getting an additional vignette for the change marks as well...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29740	Deputies! I must give a call for an order for a word such as “foolence”, “unsense” et cetera. – I would ask you to take it back.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29755	Madam President, if I have spoken the word ‘blessness’, I have been slipped out of it. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Wasn't stupid anyway, was it?]] I take it back with regret, yes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (in the direction of the speaker) Sigi, you must say ‘ nonsense, ’ not ‘ nonsense! ’]] Federal Minister Faymann, many motor vehicles with alternating marks often have two or three vehicles, but they can always only drive on highways and motorways, and these are often “oldtimers” or other vehicles. Here, there should be the possibility that you will get an additional vignette, where somehow the different markings – similar to the 10-day or the 2-month vignette – are punched in, so that you can also use these vehicles on highways and highways. In this context, I now make the following request: – Well, you can do that now! [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Krainer: Why didn't you bring this into the last seven years?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Seven years you have slept!]] Our partner didn't want to go with you! You have a partner, and the partner didn't want to go. We wanted it anyway! [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] But now to the infrastructure projects: Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, you know these things: With regard to the completion of the two-track extension of the Tauernaxis and the connection to the Pontebana axis in Italy, the Villach railway node has a high-level importance in the context of the trans-European networks, as well as the extension of the high-performance line in the Carinthia Central Area as an extension to the Koralm project within the Baltic-Adriatic transport axis. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Ins Rosental!]] The country of Carinthia, the town of Villach, the municipalities – the municipality of Wernberg and the Wörthersee municipalities – are very committed to implementing this as well and that the funds of the ÖBB provided for in the framework programme from 2006 to 2011 will not be reduced to €14.5 million, as now planned, but will also be bindingly anchored in the framework plan from 2007 to 2012. I would also like to make a request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] In the interests of a positive outcome, I would ask you all to give your consent to these two motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29898	The motions for resolutions you have just tabled are sufficiently supported, properly put in place and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e29999	Mr Reheis has now come to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30049	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Yesterday, Mr Hauser rightly pointed out the report on the important construction project in Tyrol, Unterinntaltrasse, and its massive development, spoke of an unimaginable mismanagement in the area, and thus also assumed that the Landesrat Lindenbergerer was responsible for it. – You can't let that go; Mr. Col., you did a bad job of researching. Remember back to the blue-black Federal Government before there was still blue-orange: In 2003, the Federal Minister Reichhold, Mr. Lindenberger, excavated Mr. Lindenberger from his office at the Brenner Railway Company and put him to the side of one of Alexander Luzin's joint managing directors close to the FPÖ. Without the Yes of Luzin, Lindenberger, who has been working alone for eight years, has no longer been able to decide. It was a first class political-mobbing at the time. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Luzin is a red man! That's not a freeman!]] It was a blue one. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the proximity to FPÖ, Alexander Luzin has carried out several activities: several Supervisory Board posts, Wirtschaftsuni Wien, Railway Cluster ÖBB, Software Entrepreneurs, Investment Banking, and the "Tyrol daily newspaper" reported that his presence there was very bleak everywhere. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is a red one!]] Ladies and gentlemen, what happened then? – After Lindenberger 18 to 20 blue oranges have been used. From this point on, these peaks have become everyday and a cost explosion has occurred in management, a quadruple. For this cost explosion at Unterinntalbahn you have the responsibility! The Executive Boards of Luzin and Herdina have the last government under your Ministry of Transport, and thus also the waste of tax money from Reichhold and Gorbach. Ladies and gentlemen, this should be examined, Minister, we can take a very close look at this: Under the time of Lindenberger, ten constructionists have been awarded exactly according to the forecasts, and the explosion of costs and salaries has only happened after installation of blue-orange employees and lawyers in the Directorate – and who has all been hired afterwards. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Lauter Rote! Lauter SPÖ members!]] The staff flood came from 2001. Under Lindenberger there were 52 employees at the BEG, and last year it was over 100. The cost of staffing has exploded from €3.79 million in 2001 to €7.53 million last year. Ladies and gentlemen, you are responsible for this! S & D Democrat Lindenberger, who has always managed the business correctly, can't put that under control! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30121	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30143	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The government has made an annual 10 percent increase in funding for the research and technology sector and has also committed itself to this in the government programme. We believe that this increase is in principle positive. The Greens have always been in favour of higher funding for research and development, and this has different reasons. But above all, it also has the reason to debate today, namely that higher funds in the field of research and development for economic growth make a very big contribution and also make a good contribution to employment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This white paper of the Wifo has already been quoted several times today. In this White Paper, the Wifo has also set up a model account, where you try to capture what is going on when you invest in different areas. And it turns out that investment in the field of research, but also in education, as well as in infrastructure, are central investments in the future in that they stimulate economic growth as well as reduce unemployment. In the long term, this, in particular, causes investment in research and development and in education, less investment in infrastructure that is more short-term. That is, from this point of view, we can only welcome the fact that the government has done so. However, what is in the government's programme is not to be understood in the budget, at least not completely, because twice 10 percent would be 20 percent, but that which is then implemented in the budget is up to 17 percent. And of the 17 percent increase, more than 14 percent take place in the first year, i.e. 2007. From 2007 to 2008, there is no increase in de facto, as in the field of research and technology development as a whole, the investments from 2007 to 2008 remain more or less the same. Here I come back to this Wifo model, because there it is said that continuous investment is important and not unique, short-term investments, which one then returns. I can only say that, obviously, up to the government partners ÖVP and SPÖ, it has not been possible that it would make sense to plan a longer-term investment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Point two: If we believe that increasing resources make sense in this area, it is all the more important that these funds be allocated transparently. But transparency is really left to be desired in the budget for research and technology; not only do we find greens, but all the professionals who actually agree that allocations are de facto impossible. And I think that's just irresponsible. It is about €2 billion in this area, which are not really comprehensible. We have discussed and discussed this briefly in committee, and I have received the kind, probably not very serious, answer, Minister Faymann and Secretary of State Kranzl will always give the same answer. After all, this is progress, but from my point of view it is not enough. I would like to draw an example from many, namely from the Committee on Budgets. – Ms. State Secretary Kranzl, you said in an issue that there is €2.13 billion for this research area. The budget is nowhere to be found. There's a little over €1.8 billion to find. It is about a difference of about 270 million, which in itself is not nothing. We have asked why this difference is justified, and you have the answer that they are based on the fact that these approximately €1.8 billion do not take the following points into account: the expenditure of the National Foundation, the planned Climate and Energy Fund and indirect research funding. Just briefly so that you get a concept of what dimensions it is about and how unclear things are: The National Foundation’s expenditure is 95 million a year. For the climate and energy funds, if I now take the current figures, we only take 50 million for 2007, one third of which goes into research, so we say: 16 million. Then you mentioned the indirect research funding, and we received the answer from you at the same meeting that it is about €558 million, apart from a response from the Ministry of Economic Affairs. The Ministry of Economics says it's 500, but be it. This results in a total of almost 700 million – and not 270! So the difference of € 270 million cannot be justified by what you have stated, because that is much more. That's just an example. I don't want to blame you now, because, as I said, even the professionals don't know themselves. It's just a proof that these €2 billion in the field cannot be discussed seriously, because we don't know how much it really is about. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] - No, no! You'll explain that to me then, will you? Another point that is responsible for the fact that this is simply not serious to discuss is that the terminology is completely different. It is about research resources, research relevant or research quotas, and these terms are used differently from one budget to another. And the joke about the thing: We can only assess the research quotas with the supplement T, which we get only after the budget decision. So I find this a bit absurd, and so the debate on the research budget is a bit difficult to carry out. I hope that there will finally be a research database, as the EU requires and the Court of Auditors has long called for. I would like to take a very brief look at a second point in content, namely the broadband offensive mentioned in the government programme. The government programme states that for rural areas you have a broadband offensive in the size of 500 million want to make, and remarkably, the government programme also depends on which provider you will do this with. This is because the government programme mentions Deutsche Telekom, which will contribute €300 million to this. I find that quite remarkable. We have put a question on whether there are negotiations already. The TA says she doesn't know anything about it. But I still find it remarkable that a provider is in the government program and obviously other providers were not asked at all. – You are now saying in the reply that they will be involved, there are no results yet. Okay, that's one. We'll see how this tendering mode goes if there's any. The second point is that of at least €200 million that remain there, there is no single cent to be found in the budget. Perhaps you can at least say something about the point – to the TA you have answered in detail, I can say that now – that is, on the point of financing the broadband offensive as a whole, because it seems quite important to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30246	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. You've done 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30267	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! On the one hand, I should like to express my pleasure at the fact that the extremely successful path we have taken in the field of research and development funds in recent years is also being pursued with this budget. There is nothing we need more urgently in our country. In the past, the government has been very successful in programming these funds to achieve a reasonable lever, namely, to bring private funds to the fore. We now face the special challenge that we must continue to use this lever as well as in the past. It was well advised to understand the strategic orientation of the Council for Research and Technology Development where decisions are taken: in Parliament and at ministerial level. I assume that this good cooperation will continue to work accordingly. As far as Mrs Sburny is concerned, the research promotion company is concerned, where this lever – I share your view – has been the most excellent in the budget, in fact, the increases that have been promised have not yet been included. Firstly, on the basis that the research promotion company's budget also comes from funds not included in the budget at all, second, because, for example, those funds that will flow from the Climate Fund to the FFG are estimated under the Climate Change Fund and not the FFG, and thirdly, because it is pleased that also the Committee of the Secretary of State and the Federal Minister has promised that the corresponding shifts will be made in order to bring about the necessary increases in this area. Thank you very much for that. I also feel that infrastructure development in the broadband sector is particularly important. The right thing is – I quite agree – that the government programme has a very unfortunate formulation, because it has been misinterpreted, elected. To understand this is of course so that in total a volume of € 200 million of The public authorities have available a lever of at least 300 more millions for telecoms. We have even made a bigger leverage on the broadband infrastructure initiatives of the past. Now the question is: Do we do this again, as in the past, with a single pot and a tender or not? – I would not be able to say that here elsewhere, part of the 200 million for the demand side – 30, 40, 50 million, I can’t say now; this is what the experts have to advise – which then makes broadband economic, and the rest for infrastructure, but not through direct and direct, but through indirect support, of course, competition and technology neutral. We are very much in demand, because if we do not manage to get broadband with 20 megabits in all the central areas of this country within the next five to ten years – and not only broadband, where we speak of a maximum of 2 megabits in the decentralised spaces – our country and location will come to the fore. That is why this is a very important measure. Thanks also for the fact that the Brenner Base Tunnel, which is also not estimated in the budget and for which the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs will only take place later, remains, in principle, the agreement that this most important infrastructure axis is actually built in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30322	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. You've done 6 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30343	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In 1987, the commitment to mineral oil tax was abolished, Mr Kukacka, perhaps a reminder. And it was good that there was this commitment. I remember very well the statements made by Mr Faymann at the climate summit, which said he will re-establish this commitment. This is a good initiative, which shows that parts of the SPÖ are quite capable of learning and also assumes freedom of movement. I am pleased, Minister, that you are an invigorating element in this SPÖ. As far as the figures are concerned, which is what this mineral oil tax constitutes: It's €3.6 billion. These €3.6 billion could really be involved urgently in the upcoming investments such as road and rail projects. It is quite logical to define the purpose of the task. I am thinking, above all, of repair work on Austrian motorways, where acceleration of these repair and coating works would be urgently needed. When we drive on German motorways, we can really find with joy how fast the construction workers work there. They work there as much as the Wiesel, yes you can see directly how the highway gaps are closed and the painting work is done. And if you look at us in Austria, mostly standing in traffic jams, even with high pulses and greys in front of the next traffic jam, you can see that there is not a big pace, but rather a turtle pace. Mr Faymann, perhaps You copy this Wiesel pace of the German colleagues and also implement it with us. I think that would also be a good approach to using this 3.6 billion € in dedicated money. Also the urgently necessary gaps and expansion work – I am thinking of the A1, of the Wiener Austernring motorway and also of the S37 in Carinthia, where you have recently made a commitment, but then withdrawn it; it would be good to get a clarification even there – should be started. So, Minister, pick it up! We have 3.6 billion more from this dedicated mineral oil tax. This is a great opportunity for you and also a great opportunity for Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, good infrastructure and good long-term transport concepts strengthen the competitiveness of a country and increase the attractiveness of an economic location. Granted, it is not easy to use the different levels of infrastructure expansion within Austria as a basis. There are different degrees of expansion, but there is also an incredible increase in traffic as a whole. That is why we have to put a great deal of weight on these reasonable transport concepts, which have been on the part of the liberals for a long time. Some examples of transport development on our main corridors: On the A1 from Vienna towards St. Pölten we now have a traffic volume of about 42 000 cars per day. It is estimated that there will be an increase to 63 000 by 2015. That is, we have an increase of 50 percent in this segment alone within a few years. Even worse, it is even more dramatic in the area of truck traffic, where we now have about 5,700 trucks on the same route, that is, towards Wels, towards Germany, and by 2015 an increase of about 130 percent to 12 900 trucks per day is forecast. This is an insanity increase and shows what would be necessary in the area of road construction if we were to continue this path. That doesn't have to be, you can also draw in other and better, smarter systems. On the subject of rail. On the Pyrn line, an increase in net tons is forecast from currently 23 000 to approximately 38 000 by 2015. That is, the rail we all want to force is assumed, one sees that the transport industry jumps up here. In the forecasts by 2015, however, we must also recognise that passenger traffic on the rail will clearly decline – and this is of course an alarm signal. We need to take these forecasts seriously and consider how we can really bring in attractive mobility ideas in order to strengthen passenger traffic. Promoting sustainable mobility means achieving a good modal gap between rail and road. It may then be that the train ride can become much more attractive for the individual than driving – and must also become more attractive. The European dimension. Of course, we need a view of the European dimension in this overall planning of infrastructure/transport planning. I am thinking, above all, of the important trans-European corridors, such as the TEN VI, or the Baltic-Adriatic axis, which above all concerns the Vienna, the Styrian and the Carinthian regions, the connection between Gdansk and Bologna, a very central task for us, where we must not hide. From these points of view, the Koralm tunnel and the Semmering base tunnel are also important. They cost money, which is clear, but they are important for the future of the spindles Vienna and Graz, which then become central European hubs. We cannot afford to disintegrate the Styria or Carinthia from this important transport network. This is an important point that we need to do in order to strengthen the economic location in the south. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Ministers Faymann and Molterer have jointly presented their so-called record investment programme of 10.5 billion euros in rail and road by the year 2010. They boast of the fact that by 2020 a total investment package of more than €40 billion had been chained. Mr. Minister – Mr. Faymann is here – the general concept of freedom of the then Minister Forstinger already provided a total investment volume of €45 billion. That means what you're presenting here, I'm not such a big throw. We know from Minister Molterer that he is rather colourless and inconceivable, I do not need to go into this, but at least you, Minister Faymann, have a certain wealth of ideas and some marketing skills. And if you are talking about a large list of priorities instead of an overall transport plan for Austria, you are a good packaging artist, because this package comes from the liberal spring, so to speak, is a blue package. Now, if you tie a red stitch over it or wrap it in a red cloth, you're a good packaging artist; maybe you'll be It may be the Christ of internal policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am referring to Mr Vilimsky's comments, who said that it should be possible to address good ideas of the opposition without further delay in this somewhat rigid budget debate. I call on the SPÖ, in particular, to support this motion for a resolution. There are also many people from their ranks who have already worked with these ideas here in the house. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30452	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Klement, Mr Themessl and Mr Vilimsky, who have just been put forward, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30516	Mr Haberzettl is next spoken. You'd like to talk for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30537	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Blue-orange packages in the transport sector are extremely dangerous; I can now tell you one of these packages. The Minister of Transport has taken up his office with an obligation to pay €7.9 billion, in the ASFINAG, in the area of road liabilities of €9.7 billion – save me from getting even closer to Seibersdorf. These were the conditions under which the Minister of Transport took up his office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kukacka.]] – Mr Kukacka, you will experience a historic moment today, please hold your peace now! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, I am obliged to assist you – although I have been ‘breaded silently’ there, I have to thank you –: There are improvements in infrastructure – unfortunately not to the extent that it would be desirable. There are probably improvements also in the public service sector – unfortunately not to the extent that it would be desirable. And also the figures mentioned in the budget path, 50 million, 50 million, 100 million and 160 million € will only be achieved with very far-hearted accounting rules, but I think it's a move in the right direction. The following is also to be mentioned positively: There is a clear authorisation under the Federal Finance Act for the Federal Minister of Finance to allow excesses of 60 million for 2007, and for 2008, if necessary, to allow excesses of 120 million. I believe that this is a very reasonable approach in the field of transport policy. The public services are still mentioned here: Of course, a significant increase would have been desirable here, because this would have also been a signal of correct development in relation to climate change. Finally, a European perspective: An EU regulation on public service for rail and road is currently being discussed in Brussels. I think that is exactly where it will decide how Europe will deal with climate change in the future. I think that the Greens should rethink their attitude because there can be a change in the future: either in the right direction or in the wrong direction. And now for the historical moment, Mr. Kukacka: I have to thank you once in my life: I also believe that the budget in the transport sector is correct, innovative – it is unfortunately a little too little, it should be a little more!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30597	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. He'd like to speak for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30619	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Taking into account all the documents, data and facts, as well as the various press releases and committee deliberations, I can rest assured that all here – whether the government or opposition – are convinced that research and development of a country are the basis of a good and secure future. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to point out that during the last two legislative periods under BZÖ and previously FPÖ government participation in research and development has really gone a bit further and those milestones have been set up that have brought Austria far forward in the EU ranking. [[OBJECTIVES]] You, Mrs. State Secretary Kranzl, confirm this by sending you your press release on 16 May. April write: “The continuous increase in Austrian research expenditure continues in 2007. With an estimated research rate of 2.54% of GDP, Austria remains significantly above the European average". If only I can remember 1997: At that time, the research rate was 1.69% of GDP. And since that was also a great coalition at the time, I am still very concerned today. I ask you, Mr Federal Minister, and you, Mrs State Secretary: According to the Government Agreement, why do you plan to increase the research rate to 3 percent first? in 2010? – That would be possible by 2009 at the latest. Money is available enough for that. Or are you already thinking about the 2010 election year? For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, Austria has a special position and is difficult to compare with other countries because Austria is, so to speak, an SME country. In particular, these small and medium-sized enterprises need the most urgent support in terms of independent research and development. I should just like to mention a few points which cost less than they are worth: Facilitate conditions, really reduce administrative costs for small and medium-sized enterprises, reduce and reduce barriers that are being built up especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, and increase the tax deductibility of projects. It is only in this way that we will achieve the objectives which, although they may seem to you to be advocating, which, like everything in this government coalition, are rather dirty and, above all, very fragmented. Or do you think the division of the individual materials into at least five ministries makes sense? I am also very concerned about the development of broadband technology. As soon as possible, a comprehensive supply must be provided in order to improve the quality of internet use for all. If you already finance this double budget primarily through revenue, then you will also give people something back – but not only in 2010 when elections are held! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30704	The next item is the report by Mr Radler. It's done for 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30725	Madam President. Federal Minister! Values blue-yellow State Secretary! High house! Mr Haberzettl, you have spoken about historical moments. I recall historical moments that I was allowed to experience myself in connection with the Federal Railway Reform when you acted as a trade union representative against all the reform measures. They cannot therefore present themselves here today and speak of the failure of the Federal Government and point to any payment obligations which may be imposed on them. We have today, because you and your union have been against it for decades, against any reform that should be carried out in the Federal Railways area. I can't! But now, to the new way you will go, through which – and, I hope, also by the new Federal Minister, whose handwriting this budget bears – investments in the transport sector will be brought about, which will also be in line with the economic location of Austria and the economic development of our country. 10 billion in a six-year programme for transport, for infrastructure, which is an important measure. The expansion of the railway and the infrastructure measures in the area of the road have already been stressed several times today. 235 000 people in our country depend on commuting to their workplace, many of them in Lower Austria, in the nearby area of the city of Vienna. The increase in the rate of penalty, but also investment in public transport, is an important prerequisite for these people to get to work and to be able to do their job. I just want to say: There are still many tasks ahead of us. We have a doubling of transit traffic, we have a doubling of CO2 emissions, but we only have 50 percent revenue on the part of the truck crew. There's still a lot to do. The federal government is called for, and the countries are required in the planning of transport. As mayor, I also say: As a community, too, we are called upon to put in place the transport strategic measures necessary for the next few years in the context of spatial planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30768	First of all, I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schalle, Mr Bucher, Mr Darmann, has been properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30822	I now turn to Mr Grünewald. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30843	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! Let's not think about it. All experts complain of the multiple fragmentation of research competences in at least four, if not five or more departments. Sometimes it is granted to you by a politician or a politician, but only by the hand. I regret that because, so to speak, the agreement and deep affection within the government coalition is not so much that one wants to bet his head on the fact that everything between the departments and between the parties is so harmoniously clarified and coordinated as the research landscape and the Republic would wish. It is therefore in fact a problem in strategy development through different opinions within the parties and between the parties and a fair balance of the budgets between applied research and basic research. The separation is anyway very artificial, that is artificial, namely, there is basic research. It may be true that the universities here do 90% of the output, but forget about it. You do not ask, Minister of State, that, of course, applied research at universities takes place to a considerable extent; this is always something you must have in mind. This lack of harmony or the primary party interest is already evident when it comes to the provision of supervisory councils. You and other ministers and we in Parliament will have to be very vigilant, that in promoting research projects whose quality and quality are in the foreground, and not ministerial self-interests, competition and counter-productive competition. But I confess: Yes, there is more money, but also here the experts agree: This money will not be enough to achieve the high goal of 3 percent. What I consider to be either very naïve or irresponsiblely played innocence hypocritical: If you say GDP is growing so great now, it will now be so high, soon 300 billion € that this percentage will be difficult to achieve in absolute terms. – I think this argument or excuse is actually fatal. Why? Because research and development are inherently linked to economic growth and it should be vice versa as well. If you don't think about it, You actually live from hand to mouth or from day to day. It can't be in research. The increase rates are under-dated, I've already said it. Henriette Egerth, who has changed from Bartenstein to the head of the Research Funding Society, already claims a budget gap for her research funding company of € 40 million for 2007 compared to what you were promised. If you look at what the cause is – Hakl did not address it quite, but at the same time –: They are responsible for the lack of increase rates in the department, which are actually less than 7 percent this year, if you look at the research-related things, but also a reduction in the funding from the National Foundation. We have said again and again: It can't be that research departments and research recipients and scientists, but also businesses, if you want to, always have to wait until the turn of the year to see if there's still a special means to see if there's another donation coming, if there's still someone gracious. – It must not be! I would also like to know what Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer say about him keeping €60 million from the so-called research billion in the back, what he's up to and what's going on. The will cannot apply to the work here, but I would like to see clear transparency here. I just want to confirm what Sburny said: I think it is a point of reference for Parliament, if even the experts are inclined to consult palm readers in order to be able to assign and compare this anger to numbers. Some are sold twice, see Climate Fund. I would also like to know what really is research-relevant. My suspicion is that a lot of research is working under applied research, which in the end is nothing but adapting to today's state of the art in the economy. A stupid example, maybe: If a cleaning company replaces its broom against a vacuum cleaner, this is not applied research, that's business promotion – it may be okay, but I would like to have clear figures once! High-ranking people from the research funding companies have said very charmingly to me that my suspicion is that this grey zone between research and economic promotion was described as spectral colors, which is a romantic comparison, but still a bit delicate. To conclude: The Research and Technology Development Council has learned a lot in recent years and has also contributed a lot to this. However, I would draw your attention to the fact that research and development – you only have to look at the Delphi studies! – not only in the technology, medical, natural science sector, but also in the service sector, where humanities, cultural sciences, sociology and others are anchored. I would like you to strengthen the Council in its resources and also in terms of human resources so that it does not become quite that one-sided. Finally, to SMEs, because it always says: They look through their fingers towards the big industry. There's some truth about that. But I have experienced the following – I was in the FWF’s board of trustees for several years, there was the action “Scientists for the Economy”. And what does the representative of the economy have? Is that where you said you wanted to offer him free scientists? – The farms are not stupid: There they get a free researcher – but he then demands a laboratory, and this is more expensive to us than the personnel costs! I think that the idea of bringing together or conveying small and medium-sized enterprises would be quite great in order to make these investments together. [[The red light on the speaker's coil begins to shine.]] As I see it will not be dark, but red – and therefore I say goodbye.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30935	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier's speech. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30956	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This chapter, which we are now discussing, is a very financial and financial one. I think it's good, but it's about resources that concern the future – investment for the future – and above all investment for people who facilitate their daily lives – also from the point of view of today's morning that flexible working hours are required. Flexible working time also requires flexible public transport. I would like to devote myself to a small, but very important segment of transport policy, namely transport safety – also with the impression that tomorrow the European Day of Transport Safety will be called out. The financing of transport safety is certainly very modest, but the effect is of great importance. I am very glad that measures for road safety will be evaluated, as Minister Faymann has promised us in the Subcommittee, because this issue is particularly about children who are very dear to me. What are the facts, ladies and gentlemen? – 3 568 children were injured in road traffic last year, 23 children were killed, and half of the injured children were passengers in the cars. What are the problems of lack of road safety, especially for children? – Under the title ‘Bad security and low discipline’: Risk zones and sources for children are partly protection routes, a too high pace in the local area and, above all, transit routes. Young, 15-year-old mopeds are particularly vulnerable. Lack of child protection in cars, children are not protected enough. On average, nine children per day still crash on Austrian roads. Therefore, any additional measure is important to prevent accidents, to reduce risks and to protect children.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e30989	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31011	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The traffic situation in southern Graz is really dramatic. The daily traffic jam around the Liebenauer Stadium to St. Peter's Main Street and above all the adjacent residential areas costs not only the Graz drivers time, nerves and money, but also this daily traffic jam has a major impact on the health of the residential population and also on the quality of life of the arrainers. Since more than two decades ago, the B 67b – that is the so-called Nordspange, that is, the northern belt of Graz – was completed, there was no longer a federal road construction project of importance that would have benefited us Grazers. For years now, we have needed the complete belt road connection. So we have the West Spange, the Plabusch Tunnel, we now have the North Spange, but of course we also need the East Belt, and finally – and this is my current concern – also the so-called South Belt. ==References====External links== April written about this South Belt: “Since 1987 it has been planned, in September 2006 there was at least a construction commitment for 2009. Now for the... South Belt in Graz... the off, at least... a greater delay. Today, Wednesday, there is a rushing summit between the top representatives of the city of Graz and the country about the 65 million euro project. The cause for the process carts lies in the load with fine dust.” – Quotes. Ladies and gentlemen! Now, delays in construction are threatened by the new Air Re Content Act, because the load with fine dust may only be “three percent above the limit value”. And the Grotesque is: ‘If these tolerances exceed, at least a break in construction may occur.’ A two-kilometer connection is planned between the two southern Graz districts, i.e. between Liebenau and Puntigam. The route of 1.4 kilometers would have to be led underground and of course also connected to the south motorway, to the A2. On the four-track southern belt, ladies and gentlemen – and this clearly shows – up to 25,000 vehicles are to travel every day. There is currently an environmental impact assessment. Ladies and gentlemen! For us Grazer is clear: We need this important transport connection, and not only in many years, but as soon as possible – i.e. start of construction in 2009. And we really expect your support, Mr. Federal Minister. A second important project for the Styria is the coral tunnel. [[Abg. Grill: And the Semmering!]] You yourself, Mr. Federal Minister, were in Graz a few weeks ago. You took part in a summit, where the Federal Chancellor was also present and where our head of state has given you the importance of this important project. The Koralm Tunnel is really the centerpiece of the planned Koralmbahn, which connects the large area of Graz and Klagenfurt. It is an important base tunnel and also a project of international importance, because we can only ensure the connection between the Upper Italian region and Warsaw through this connection. Above all, however, he benefits us Steirer that the journey time from Graz to Klagenfurt would be reduced from currently three to one hour. What other construction project makes so much sense? I ask you and call on you to have this project started as soon as possible in your responsibility as the Federal Minister! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31047	The next speaker was Mr Morak. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31071	Madam President. Federal Minister! A preliminary remark: You should have a little bit with Deputie Veit Schallereden! I guess he's exceptional. He is the man who basically embodies “Billa. ” And if he always sings the praise of small and medium-sized enterprises here, then he should talk to his clubman about whether this is really the right occupation for it. Because, as we know, this is the opposite of what we call small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There we are with the Bartenstein in the dead race! He also represents small and medium-sized enterprises!]] - Yeah, yeah, it's all right. Second: Mr Federal Minister, if I allow the speeches to happen here, I am sorry a little, just because we have heard relatively large, many, strong, passionate arguments for the road, for the ASFINAG, for the ÖBB, so for what is really tangible in road transport. Sometimes I feel that your predecessors – sometimes you too – in the Semmering Base Tunnel, in the Brenner Base Tunnel, in the Koralm Base Tunnel are a little lost and do not work out those issues that are basically important, namely what we call “wideband”, and what we see in them the future of information, the future of traffic in this country and in this world. I would like to see a change taking place here in the House to address these important issues. I believe not only that the jobs of the future are created, but that this also has something to do with democracy, the raising of quality and the opportunities of rural areas, that this has something to do with better access to information, but not only to information, but also to health, to democratic processes and, of course, to what we call research and development. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I believe that the State of Austria has done its homework in the field. We have also heard that in the field of ICTs, the state's information technologies, we are well on the way, however, in the area where we say: How does the application of the citizens look like?, can it be speeded up that we are in need here. – In this sense: Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31108	The next speaker was Mr Marizzi. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31130	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Thank you, Minister of State! Of course, the important points in transport policy are the tunnels, the major railway stations, the construction of a North motorway, but in this budget – and we are particularly proud of that – things are also included, Mr. Morak, who is also interested in the commuters – in addition to the broadband, which is also important. If you look at what is happening on the South motorway every day – you only need to stretch the “curier” of last week, where it says: “... daily greets the traffic jam...” – then you see that it is good that in this budget and by this Federal Minister and his ministry projects are planned especially for the expansion of the conurbation centres, especially for the expansion of the transport infrastructure in the nearby area of Vienna. I think it is particularly important that smaller projects are made here – with great and immediate effect. A coral tunnel, a brenner base tunnel, will be built for ten or 15 years, but at present many people are standing Every day in traffic jams. My colleague from the Freedom Party mentioned this as well – regarding Graz. It is also important that something happens around Vienna. Something can happen right away around Vienna: I have heard that the subway extension to Mödling does not go, but it could be, for example, that the Badner Bahn – with a seven-and-a-half minute cycle, very well structured and very well invested and with improved railway stations – is an essential contribution to solving the problem of daily congestion on the South motorway. A second point, Minister of State: I'd have a big request. There are around 30 to 40 percent truck increase in Lower Austria – especially in the East. If you look at the trucks, you can see that these are mostly scrapped trucks and sometimes dangerous buses. One should really start a project here together with the Minister of the Interior – especially now in the week of transport safety – in order to pay particular attention to these foreign buses and trucks in the near future, because of course there is a significant deterioration in our traffic safety and, of course, also the CO2 situation. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the FPÖ.]] Summa sumarum can be said, ladies and gentlemen, the double budget 2007/2008 brings site security, growth support and, above all, the improvement of Austria's infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31175	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31196	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, I would like to congratulate you on professional negotiation, which has affected the negotiation of the infrastructure package with the countries – not an easy task, as we know. You and the Minister for Finance, I think, have put in place a rather considerable budget package. For us from the Austrian People's Party, transport safety is a top priority throughout the area of transport. I think the composition of the ministry with the whole question of infrastructure, but also the development of technology is quite exciting. My request and my suggestion, however, go in another direction: I believe that we still think too strongly in different transport systems. We still think of road, rail, and sometimes we have interface problems for the customer, so for the road user. That means, I'd imagine I'd wish there wasn't a new station building without a underground garage, for example, where I could park my car. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I wish there was something like an Austrian mobility card, where I can pay once a year and use all public transport. [[Abg. Oillinger: We already said, but good!]] I'd like to. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You're in the government anyway!]] I would like there to be something like parking on the motorways, where people can start driving communities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] They're already here. We see this: On motorways, cars are often stopped, but very uncoordinated, I say now. [[Call to the ÖVP:Lower Austria – promised, held!]] I would like us to make these situations a little easier for road users. I'd like to. [[Abg. Oils: You're in government!]] Ladies and gentlemen, finally, very briefly to Mr Klement, because he even praised the German construction workers and almost attracted the Austrian construction workers to the laziness. [[Call the FPÖ:Na, na, go!]] [[Abg. Strache: What's that again?]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen of the “social home party”, we should define what you see as your home! It's Austria for me.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31322	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31343	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The “Transport” budget chapter – which we have heard more often today, I repeat it – provides for the necessary funds for the record investment programme from €11 billion to 2010. Of this, €4.6 billion is spent on road construction and € 6.4 billion is spent on the expansion of the rail. [[Abg. Street: €60 billion Debt at the ÖBB! Then pay the covenant once!]] These figures alone show the objective of strengthening public transport, including in terms of climate protection. I welcome this programme, Mr Strache, very explicitly. In the Lower Austrian Central Area alone, ladies and gentlemen, projects amounting to €1 039 million will be implemented. Only a small comparison: The construction of the entire new Lower Austrian state government district in St. Pölten cost about €430 million. These planned projects represent a strong economic boost during the construction period and an important strengthening of the infrastructure of the Central Area in Lower Austria for the future. Mr. Federal Minister, thank you very much also from me personally for deciding that the St. Pölten freight train will finally be built! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This important rail project is simply necessary for the implementation of a high-performance line of the Westbahn. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to briefly address an equally important part of the whole transport infrastructure, namely the regional railways. The regional routes – exactly! – As a feeder for the main railways, from my point of view, it is the foundation of a well-functioning rail network. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! We know about the importance of the regional railways even in large events. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that during the planned Pope visit in Mariazell in autumn, an important part of the visitors will arrive with the Mariazellerbahn. [[Abg. Strache: The Pope is driving the train?]] The regional railways, the Mariazellerbahn, ladies and gentlemen, need more investment than ever! Mr Minister, I would also like your support here. [[Abg. Rädler: Central Station!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31416	Mr Glaser is speaking as the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31438	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The 10.5 billion package of this Federal Government for road and rail is certainly of great importance for the management of the international tasks of Austria and Austria's economic location. The same applies to the 500 million package in the field of broadband, and I believe that we should be grateful here to the Minister of Finance, but also to the Minister for Infrastructure, for the commitment to this matter. But I already have a problem – and now, of course, the “but” – as a country politician: For my feeling, much too much – that is also necessary, but it happens far too much and almost exclusively – is invested in the central areas, and the regions remain a little on the track. Two requests in this context: Firstly, with regard to the development of broadband: It is not a question of unlocking the centres and being at home at all speed, and in the rural area one comes to broadband connection on a bumpy field road. That means we have to make a full supply here, too. Another area was just mentioned by my previous speakers: We are talking about the traffic jam in front of the centres, especially in the south of Vienna. That's what I'm going through every day. It makes sense, therefore, if our counterparts are no longer ready to travel two, two and a half hours – a tour – to the city, because they simply do not do this anymore, and therefore sooner or later become cities and are missing in rural areas. Therefore, we need appropriate regional railway connections, for example from the southeast of Austria – from the south-eastern part of Burgenland, from East Styria – also to the centres, also towards Graz. That is to say, we need a reasonable east railway, a reasonable aspang railway, a reasonable Raab-Ödenburg railway, my region, but certainly also the other regions, because only then will it be possible for us to see an overall supply and have a solution in Austria as a whole. In that sense, I ask you to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31478	The next item is the speech by Mr Zach. He made a speech time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31499	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! The word "research and technology" – it has brought the industrial association to the fore in its last brochure: The best heads are urgently sought. And if you are looking for Parliament in the region, you will find these best minds, such as in the form of a lab. This is a free space of young, innovative people who do exactly what we really want from “innovation”: They create the free space where they work on projects that then become business ideas. I spoke to these young people and asked them: What do you expect from politics? – And these are two points. First: Give us the space so that we can do what we really want to do, namely research. And Point two: Keep us going where we're not going on alone. – We call this in the language of politics the creation of the framework conditions. What are the framework conditions? – From my point of view, the following are the following: Firstly, we need a basic guarantee for all, so that those who do what they want to do can do it. Point two: The creation of risk capital – the start-up financing, the belief in the ideas of these young people, so that something can arise. And the third thing is: We need a liberal migration policy so that those who create this research environment can come to us. We have heard a lot from the Secretary of State and the Minister about what they have done in research policy. – I am very keen on you, I am taking you by the word, and I will observe this and make sure that these small units, such as these research labs, are promoted and that something arises and brings us forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31551	Thank you. – Mr Schelling is next spoken. He also took two minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31572	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Haberzettl, you are now experiencing a truly historic moment in this House: For the first time in my life, I agree with my previous speaker Anton Heinzl on the projects in St. Pölten – but I am disappointed that he has forgotten the main station! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is completely undisputed that the infrastructures – and I am talking about the majority: Infrastructures – in fact play a crucial role in the quality of the site, and it is completely undisputed that the entire infrastructure – in addition to education – is a special driver for economic development and thus for the prosperity of our country. About the area Transport has already been said a lot. The Minister of Finance and Vice-Presidents has been very advanced and, together with Mr Faymann, has presented very good projects, I think, in the field of transport infrastructure. These projects create jobs: They are developing new location regions, and where location regions are developing, businesses are developing, and where businesses are developing, jobs are developing. One particular issue I would like to address is innovation. Here, I think, we need a greater awareness of innovation. Secondly, however, we also need a look at the fact that innovation is not always linked to technology, but innovation is also an improvement in existing products and processes, and new distribution and marketing structures are also considered as innovation. And I think that there is still a lack of appropriate funding programmes. In my opinion, the funds are set aside. It'll be up to you to put accents here. Last and decisive request, ladies and gentlemen: Access to resources for small and medium-sized enterprises must be simplified. This is the first point: The information needs to be more understandable. The Small and medium-sized enterprises do not have the expert knowledge, and it cannot be right to have already completed at least two university studies to read funding programmes. Secondly, There must be much simplified support guidelines for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Grünewald mentioned this. On the third side, I believe that there must be a support programme for cooperation networks for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises with large enterprises. If we want to make it the way we export it, that many more businesses – and this is the requirement – go into research and development, into innovation, then the decision for the Internationalisation Plan is also a model here. I think it is therefore legitimate to welcome the fact that more resources are available in the budget, but, Mrs State Secretary, Mr Bundesminister: We will measure you by what They made it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31644	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. He wants to talk for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31666	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I would just like to correct the statements made by Mr Reheis, who has found that the cost excesses in the Unterinntal trasse are due to a black and blue orange, whatever the case may be, mismanagement. In its report on the Unterinntal-Trasse, the Court of Auditors has noted impressively that there has actually been an unlikely, incredible mismanagement here. I can only repeat this: A cost explosion of 1.3 to 1.9 billion € has occurred during the review period. Key errors in project management have been identified. There has only been additional personnel costs up to €57 million in 2003, and this is also because graduates of the HTL, for example, have started up to €6 000 gross in this society – that is, really incredible cost explosions. I found yesterday that these cost explosions, this mismanagement, are also directly related to the management of the current SPÖ Landesrat in Tirol, Landesrat Lindenberger. This was also recorded in the “Tyrol daily ” among others. I can read the following from the "Tyrol daily", issue of Saturday/Sunday, 31. ==References== April, literally quote: “Until then, today’s traffic LR Hans Lindenberger was head of the Brenner Railway Society...” Ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that the Court of Auditors has found these shortcomings very penetrating and that this society is now being brought back into the right and right lot. But please don't put away the responsibility here! The fact is that this mismanagement is due to the work of the current Transport Land Council Lindenberger. And through the audit of the Court of Auditors and above all through the important monitoring of the Court of Auditors, this society is hopefully now being brought back in the right direction. To correct my previous speaker, Mayor Reheis. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31711	Mrs Kranzl, Secretary of State, has now spoken. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31732	Madam President, High house! There has been a wide range of questions, particularly in the field of research, innovation and technology. As you know, I may be in charge of this area in the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology. Mrs Sburny, I agree with you: Of course, the money can never be enough! Of course, I would be delighted to have much higher budget resources, but I really have to say that I am very satisfied with the budget available for the sake of fairness. There has been a change that is very important to me, namely, a structural change, namely, that funds, offensives previously stored in the Ministry of Finance, which were called up in relation to the project, are now represented in the ordination. On the one hand, this is a huge administrative simplification; in any case, it also guarantees that funds can be paid out much faster; and, most importantly, that not the total content, the total cost of a project in a single year, but in fact, only the cash needs to be taken into account. – So this is a change that, I believe, is very positive. I can also be pleased that overall in the distribution of offensives – compared to the past: 44 percent for BMVIT – now 49 percent will be available to BMVIT. And I also agree with the previous speakers that the question of how the budget allocations to the individual regions are really difficult to review is really difficult. I did the same thing. How do these sums come about? – I can only quote the following for my area, BMVIT: There will be €359 million in the Ordinarium in 2007. But there are other pots to add. You have referred to it: It is the Energy and Climate Fund, which has already made the statement that of the €500 million available over the entire legislative period, one third will be available for research and development – resolution via FFG – it has been addressed – but a small sub-area is still reserved in the fixed provision of the Ministry of Finance. This is €160 million for 2007, €160 million in 2008. This is a project-related call. We know that this is about €70 million for the BMVIT. And, as has been said, the funds from the National Foundation, where some €32 million can still be retrieved, as the corresponding decision of the General Assembly can only be taken, will be included. If you add these amounts, you can see that much more resources are available for BMVIT alone. Overall, as you know, the competences are divided into several departments, but only out of this area are much more resources available. As far as the 2.13 billion, which have been quoted more often this year, are concerned, please, here on a report by Statistics Austria, I have an assessment – and They know that over the past few years, Statistics Austria has always carried out a more reticent assessment – that with these available budgets, a total research rate of 2.54 percent can be reached by public funds, that investments of around or almost €6.9 billion are possible here. And this proves that we are realistically approaching the objective of achieving a research rate of 3 percent by the year 2010. I am of course pleased if this goal is reached earlier, I am only a very realistic person, coming from the economy. For me, not only does it need the financial base, on the other hand, it needs entrepreneurs who actually initiate projects, and then, of course, it also needs increased human resources, say people who develop and implement these ideas. And I can assure you that there will be appropriate initiatives in all these areas. Of course, the small and medium-sized enterprises addressed by Mr Schelling are very much in my heart – in addition to the forcedness of large enterprises, of course, because even when large enterprises submit projects, a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises participate. But this will, among other things – in addition to energy efficiency, especially with regard to climate change – be a corresponding priority. And I must not forget the women's priority either. This is also important to me personally, because it also contributes to the strengthening of human resources. The 2.13 billion mentioned here total – as part of the approximately 6.9 billion, according to estimates, Statistics Austria – from federal resources from different regions, on the other hand also from country resources, as well as from funds from municipalities, chambers and so on, also from institutions of the other levels. One thing is important to me: I would like to take up your idea of really setting up a research database. I think this is very important and important myself. On the one hand, it is about reviewing the financial flows – that is, what is going on: to whom is it actually going?, in what form is it going to be? – but there are still significantly leading data, which, I believe, are generally interesting. There's a manko. I can therefore take up this idea. I also think it is essential for future activity that there is also a proper statistical material here. On the division of the resorts: I have repeatedly stressed that I can be happy to be able to strain the arch on basic research, through the Science Fund, so university research, through applied research, through the FFG up to – new – via AWS also in direct corporate funding, non-university institutions. BMVIT really has a comprehensive competence here. Personally, I believe that this division can work and already work. There are best-practice examples. I recall the new COMET programme, where good cooperation with the Ministry of Economic Affairs has already been established. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are all interested in the fact that Austria actually achieves this 3 percent ratio, that we can thus claim our position within the European Union that we can achieve as many resources as possible – and at least € 52 billion are waiting there to be picked up. The issue of risk capital has been addressed. I can also provide the following information: There will be a new "Sead Financing" programme, which currently needs to be blessed by the European Union. As I hear, there are very positive signals. This is a risk financing for companies, i.e. as a loan currency up to a maximum of € 1 million – repayment case only if, in fact, the project also leads to a positive result, i.e. application in the enterprises. I think that this is a contribution to meeting companies, especially small businesses. As far as the situation of foreign researchers is concerned, there is also a special programme to be presented in the near future: “brainpower austria”. We know that we have a manko here: not only that there are too few scientists and researchers, but that these, when they have completed their studies in Austria, are often sought for their future activity abroad. Here we want to set up initiatives, set up a job market and give as much incentives as possible that foreign scientists, researchers find their way back to Austria. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the broadband initiative is concerned is concerned, it is a very important area! – I should like to stress that many progress has been made here in the last few years as far as the infrastructure is concerned. We have reached a key supply of around 97 percent, but I know that is population supply, there are differences: urban area – regional area. In this connection, however, I am allowed to say that on 24 March. The first meeting of the ICT Task Force took place in April, which was attended by well-known representatives of Austrian companies, that there will be a timetable for the introduction of ideas, because, of course, it is also about the provision of content in addition to the infrastructure: How can you make it tasty for the Austrians to actually use ICT as well, in fact, internet access? - That's where it'll be on the content. However, I can assure you that the approach of technology neutrality is a very important one, precisely because of the regional differences, one should be able to make use of the potential available at all. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As the research area was also addressed, perhaps one point in total: I would like to underline that Austria is the leader in the field of research, taking a leading position. We also know, however, that Austria is now the eighth place in the European Innovation Scoreboard. - Some say we fell back from the fifth place to the eighth place. However, it is fair to admit that there is a new comparison of data here, a more accurate collection. I personally doubt whether we ever had the fifth place. The fact is, however, that we are on a very good path in the development of investment, that here Austria, as has been said, is one of the leading nations; that we are playing together with many big players, but that we have a strength, namely a commitment to a very quality, high level, characterized by a huge know-how and that we are particularly well on the road in the use of niches. I must pass this compliment on to the Austrian entrepreneurs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31827	Mr Herzegovina is speaking as the next speaker. He's done two minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31848	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The transport and infrastructure sector is concerned with huge amounts of tax money and State liability to the greatest extent. That is why control is so important. Control has failed de facto in recent years. If I just think about it, the Minister has only taken care of his outings and is sitting today in a sun lounger on Lake Constance. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You can say that!]] Or the Supervisory Boards, that's why it just stumbled against incompatibilities. In Parliament, the government parties have managed to reject the charge of a head of the ÖBB Group – a 100% state-owned company! You have to imagine that. This cannot, of course, go on, and so it will not go on. We rely 100 percent on Mr. Faymann. He will best perform his ownership role. And we are relying on newly appointed supervisory councils which exercise their functions according to the law accordingly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can assure – and I believe that this will not happen in Parliament – that the opposition parties will be interested in – that a head of a state company is not speaking and replying here when the Court of Auditors is dealing with reports from the Court of Auditors on transport policy. [[Abg. Grillic: Who? Who do you mean now? Tell me the name! That would be interesting!]] Last but not least, Mr Grillitsch, which is very important – this is also for It's important –: I think – and this was also a failure of recent years – that what is particularly important for a positive transport policy is to forget, namely respect and appreciation for employees. This has been neglected. These have been cost factors in the past, and there will be no social democracy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31902	The next item is the speech by Mr Kainz. Two minutes, as I see it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31923	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! With the double budget 2007/2008, there is additional funding to further improve the path of infrastructure improvement, which has undoubtedly been launched in recent years. Especially from the Lower Austrian point of view, much is planned here – congratulations also to the Federal Minister and to the head of state Pröll, who negotiated this pact for Lower Austria. By 2012, €8.5 billion will be invested in rail and road, €5.5 billion in rail and €3 billion in road. I think the transport infrastructure is the essential prerequisite for economic development, but also for the people to have a good quality of life. I would like to address two projects in the near future. Railway infrastructure: Extension of the Pottendorfer line – a very important project – but also the course Götzendorf by the municipality of Enzersdorf an der Fischa. There was a citizens' initiative here, and the route planning was changed. I believe that citizens' interests must undoubtedly also be observed in transport projects and must not stay on the road. Many projects also exist in public transport, for example the Vorer, East-Region Transport Association, which also contributes a lot to climate protection. - A good budget, I congratulate, all right.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31965	The next item is the speech by Mr Dobnigg. You've done 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e31987	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this budget for innovation and technology, which has a very clear social-democratic manuscript, we will be able to make a big leap forward in this important future area both qualitatively and quantitatively. For the first time, the 3 percent of GDP research rate is reaching a tangible level. This ambitious goal can be achieved in 2010, and I am very confident that we will succeed. Austria's research and innovation structures are significantly strengthened with this budget for the Oberliga game. This is also essential because this strategy is particularly important for growth and thus for more employment in Austria. Only a strong state, which, together with companies, strengthens and invests in research, technology and innovation in the long term, can exist as an economic and employment location. Our companies have to be a step ahead of us – as we have announced in our voestalpine advertising – because technology leadership is only achieved by innovative companies, and thus jobs at the Austrian site are secured. It is particularly gratifying that this Federal Government also creates the appropriate incentives. They have demonstrated very clearly and impressively what Mr Faymann and Mrs. State Secretary Kranzl are doing in the Committee meetings and committee deliberations as well as today, Mrs. State Secretary. I therefore know Austrian research and innovation policy in the best hands. I wish you, Minister of State, the Secretary of State, much success in the implementation of the major projects and a warm welcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32024	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. Two minutes, honourable Member. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32045	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I am pleased, Mr Federal Minister, that it is possible with you to continue the successful path of the last seven years in the field of infrastructure accordingly. I thank you for that because it is really very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] – Mr Herbs, I will come to you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] For me, as a steirer, it was just too blamble to find out today that two SPÖ representatives came to the speaker's mouth here and with no word took the Koralm and Semmering tunnels into their mouths. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Say the pomp!]] What did Mr Voves say? Have you not had an order from Mr Voves to demand this today, Mr Herbs? [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There, Mr. Landeshuptmann will rejoice in Styria. Federal Minister – before You will be invited back to Mr Voves – please: The Semmering Tunnel is just as important as the Koralm Tunnel, and it is just as important that we close the gap between Judenburg and Klagenfurt – I say for the Obersteiermark – so that the Obersteiermark economic location is safeguarded accordingly. [[new calls to the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Rosary: Erwin Pröll!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am glad that you have agreed with Willi Molterer on the broadband initiative, which is particularly important for rural areas as an attractive economic location, as well as on the climate and energy funds, which are also particularly important, which, in particular, allow agriculture and forestry to supply independent energy to all of you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32131	The next item is the speech by Mr Kirchgatter. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32163	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I believe, apart from the last contribution to the discussion, that, in the debate, too, Mr Faymann and Mrs. State Secretary Kranzl have brought new momentum into transport, innovation and technology policy. An innovation-friendly climate, investment in research and development as well as in education are crucial for the growth of the Austrian economy. High-quality jobs are based on the results of research and development. It is therefore not only useful, but also necessary to invest here. And that's what this federal government is doing. The present draft budget for 2007/2008 includes numerous workplace-effective projects. It is very gratifying that the new innovation and technology policy is responding to the Austrian operating structure, including small and medium-sized enterprises. It promotes creativity, motivates and wants to shape access for small and medium-sized enterprises in such a way that they can also be accepted. It is also a worthwhile task for the regions of our country. This new focus creates new cooperation opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises, supports small and medium-sized enterprises in a sustainable way. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the research rate to 3 percent by 2010 is an ambitious goal and shows the future orientation of the new Federal Government for economic growth, for jobs and for prosperity in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32200	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32222	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Federal Minister, a very unusual praise that we have heard today from almost all the political groups for you. – You have to earn my praise first. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] I come from the region east of Vienna, and all that is necessary in this region of expansions has been moved so far that the result can all of us have little joy, for a simple reason: the construction work that will take place at the Lobau Tunnel, the construction work that will take place on the S 1, and the construction work that will be done on the extension of the Marchegger Astes of the East Railway and on the Marchfelder highway, will all happen at the same time, in the same region. – It is inconceivable that so much material is moved at the same time without causing a terrible chaos. That is why I really urge you to use all the creativity you and others have in order to make it possible to favour the projects. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I know that this environmental impact assessment is necessary for the development of the East Railway. I therefore think it is necessary to start with it as soon as possible, because if we wait a long time, we will build through March the same tunnel as we have to build it through the Danube, and the tunnel alone costs € 250 million more compared to a bridge. I understand that nature conservation can cost so much, but I do not understand why our commuters, the businesses, the people in the region, despite the need for farm settlement, should endure what is happening to problems at the moment. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The last government has taken a lot of it!]] I think it is soluble, and I think that if we really look at the matter and work out a solution for the region, we can easily move on. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The project was poorly prepared!]] [[Abg. Steibl: I'm excited what will bring you together!]] It is quite clear that this is an unreasonable state. In 1947, the ice shock destroyed the bridges over the March – everyone. Since then, no truck has been able to cross a bridge over the March, because there is no one. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The last seven years have been missed!]] And these plans would mean that the first truck will go over March 2018. This cannot be in our interest, nor can it be in the interest of a good neighbourhood policy on Slovakia, and I therefore expect that we will work together to achieve good solutions. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Kukacka failed!]] – I’m looking forward to it, if I may also praise you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32334	Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32355	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Innovation, research and development are key factors for the future of Austria. The fact that more money is being made available in this area is a clear commitment by the Federal Ministry to progress, which will ultimately benefit the population. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] It is important that small and medium-sized enterprises will receive more information on how they can obtain more support and know-how for their sector, especially the many small and medium-sized enterprises that provide work for the population and thus ensure their standard of living. I would also like to stress that the Federal Ministry is planning to increase the female share in the field of research and development. The promotion of the natural interest of women in technology, research and innovation is already to be started in the earliest childhood, as this is ultimately crucial for later vocational decision-making. That this female researcher spirit should be strengthened is very welcome. One last point: Research and development is an important success factor for growth, employment and international competition. I hope and would like to appeal that over the next five years many Austrian development projects that are active in this field will also receive funds from 7. EU framework programme, where a budget of €50 billion is available, is collected. I am optimistic and confident that we will reach the 3 percent research rate by 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32389	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. Desirable time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32410	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! My dear! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, we all hope that there will be this 3 percent in 2010 to celebrate. In the raw version of the last research and technology report of the retired Federal Government, it was still said that it would be only 2.82 percent. So it seems that there has been a common effort here to raise additional money. If we do not have strong economic growth with its evil dynamics, namely simply driving up GDP, putting a hack into the cross, we will really have the 3 percent. However, this is 3 per cent of the input, and, Minister, the Secretary of State, you wonder when the Republic always does output control – that says also colleague Sburny. Finally, we want to know – as those who allocate the taxpayers: What's going on with this money? Is it well used? For example, the FFG – now it's so modern to promote small and medium-sized enterprises, that's great, but where are the people doing that? How many research jobs are created? How much power, how much time does it take to apply a researcher to 200 small businesses? Wouldn't it be better to do more in the large, really researching companies? At the FWF, I would like to thank you for the welcome to preserve the parity between science and government, which was a concern, as I believe, almost all the parties here in the house. The high level of funding has been maintained. The FFG, a research promotion company, is widely regarded as a successful construction. The management also works in such a way that one can speak of success. A wormhead drop remains: The SPÖ's agreement failed at the time when the then majority of the government – BZÖ and ÖVP – refused to grant the Austrian Trade Union Confederation a Supervisory Board seat, while the Economic Chamber had several of them. I hope you get a little more parity here. We are very satisfied with the operation itself. I think it is right to say that a worker's representative also has the right and can also provide valuable input in a society that distributes state funding. Seibersdorf, Secretary of State, I like your development very much. I would like to congratulate you on the way through with which you started this. Hannes Androsch is accepted, also by the industry – quite rightly. If you call it SPÖ-near, it's almost a suspicion, but we can sing more songs than you do. [[Abg. Neugebauer: He was vice chancellor once!]] He was once vice chancellor, but that's so long ago, there's hardly any memory of the living; I'm one of the few. At the end of the day, two more sentences. If you so praise the railway reforms, Mr Grillitsch, I must say: I remember the disgusting plan of the then State Secretary Kukacka to announce unannounceable railways – what I felt was a shame to a government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And I remind you both that the construction of nine companies, which should not have anything to do with each other at the time, has already fallen to your Director-General Huber's head more than once. So she didn't prove herself.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32479	Mr Faymann has now spoken. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32501	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There are a large number of points that we have discussed more often – in the Committee, in the Committee on Budgets, personally on various occasions – and which we have also explained in written answers to questions. That is why you will probably forgive me if I do not once again list all the numbers I have so often listed, but thank our employees for preparing all this so that we can actually always speak and answer and have provided information on all questions quickly and according to best knowledge and conscience in this discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The field of research has been very specific, very correct and very dedicated to the Secretary of State. That is why I would just like to add two additional points and also to speak in support of them. Of course, it would also be preferable for me to have only one area in the Federal Government, where everything from research is involved. One must admit, however, that research is such a strong cross-sectional matter that even if the objective of concentrating it in one area were to be feasible, it would not really be possible to reconcile with the different business sectors, with the different ministries, with the different responsibilities in close contact, to carry out controls, to prepare projects, to communicate with those in the economy that are the most important part in the implementation of research. What would help if we thought of something but took place away from industry, industry, large, medium-sized and smaller enterprises. Research now has this challenge to coordinate strongly. I think we've started this very constructively in the government in the last few weeks, because in the end the customer must feel that it's a one-stop shop. He is not sent back and forth, but he is served by one place. After that, it is our job to show that we are able to coordinate ourselves. The 3 percent research rate has been cut very often. The contribution of the countries and the bodies must also not be forgotten in this discussion. We are not the only ones – although a special part, but not the only ones – who invest public funds here. So there is a need for coordination here too. But of course – and I stress this again – the output control that honourable Member Broukal has addressed, and the evaluation: How can projects be evaluated in the individual areas? And also the admission, if one is perhaps not in the right place in one area, is important, that should include all areas, including indirect support, in order to get a whole picture of where the strengths and weaknesses actually lie. I know that, in parliamentary discussions, there is a little bit of talk about the weaknesses. Then it is our task again to talk a lot about the strengths together. But overall, this X-ray image, which provides clarity in the analysis, is an important area to carry out a common evaluation across all areas, in order to ensure support as well. Broadband plays a major role over and over again, which is undisputedly important. However, I must say that the approaches to how the broadband initiative or initiative, perhaps several initiatives can be started, can only be developed. The preparatory work is a little larger than they are. Therefore, we need to know that no one can believe that you are going to a company and say: How much do you pay, how much do we pay, how much is it? – in reality, it is the other way around – to define a goal, to develop methods, to make calls and to search for interested parties, to find a way to offer this achievement to all those who work in this field. So that's important indisputably. But we are not at the end of this development, where we only need to pay out more and discuss with the Minister of Finance how much is to be paid out, but we are only at the beginning. I would now like to talk about the questions raised in the area of road and rail – not even in the area of waterways, which is also important – and about a few points in this area. I would rather appreciate that the Semmering Tunnel has come up with extra language. I can only say that the construction of the coral tunnel is undisputed, the construction start is fixed in 2008 and that the Semmering Tunnel is set at a construction rate in 2012. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP]] However, there is – and I have never made a flour of it – the first part of the planning this summer. If you want to start building 2012, you have to agree on it before, but it's not like it's going up or off for a few weeks. Until the summer, however, you have to agree on some variants that are presented in order not to follow all the variants. It is an in-depth study and to develop concrete planning together with the country of Lower Austria. I know that the head of state in Lower Austria, the state of Lower Austria and those responsible for the state of Lower Austria will be very constructive with us. So I personally hope that we will also need the construction rate that we have set in 2012. However, this presupposes that by then the requirements of an ecological nature, but of course also of a kind, are fulfilled, because the requirements must already be met in one project, everything else would be unthinkable. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those who have contributed to the fact that coordination between the countries, our House, the experts, the many political leaders has worked quite well, so that the framework plan can finally be presented on a very broad basis and together. The setting of priorities for the road or the framework planning in the rail sector is nothing that I would like to say that we are inventing something. It was not about inventing, but it was about implementing projects that are urgently needed – because we need international transport connections as important life lines in our country – projects that were and are very well prepared in many areas, in a very realistic order, in which we have deleted some project. [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: A project belongs to this!]] – Many projects are part of it, deputies. Everyone will know that there is no point in announcing a project if an EIA procedure is yet to be done before. I know that there is not so much detail in election campaigns or also in national elections, but if you know that there is already a decision in the European Union regarding a whole country – “Saragossa judgment”, as it is said – that if you place additional track systems, you need an EIA procedure, then you have to do so on schedule. It is a question of seriosity that now – with all the pressure – one begins to carry out these plans. But if you know this judgment, you can't stand it. Therefore, I also ask for understanding that we are only publishing timetables that we are convinced that they are sustainable. However, it can still develop in the course of civil participation or other procedures, so to speak. But from the outset, we will not give in to dates that are deliberately wrong. And I don't think it would have anything of it either. This is not what is useful to anyone, but rather harms the overall political credibility. And to harm political credibility is certainly one of the biggest mistakes you could make, and we don't think so. Therefore, I would ask once again to understand that some projects have received a very different date from that in various reports. I also understand and welcome the fact that the countries in this development have contributed as realistically as I even believe that in the cooperation between the federal states and this House is an important key in a meaningful development of infrastructure. Infrastructure and research against each other would be like playing the left against the right hand, because both are urgently needed. Mr Moser, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and First of all, as the last speaker, recalling the contribution, I would like to say: I know that there is a great deal of work in research, even for the labour market, that is very important. All economic researchers agree that without research and development, the necessary renewal and standards that our country needs are not at all accessible. But there is no road and rail transport development behind it – the partial reform of this area. Other countries like Switzerland transport much more goods on the rail than we do because they have built many projects much faster over the last 20 years than we have. This has happened not only in the last few weeks, but over a very long period of time. The countries that have invested more in this area therefore also have successes that we urgently need. We need these successes in the rail sector for development in our country, for the regions, for business settlements and for the economy of our country. We need these too, of course, for environmental protection, because the chapters of environmental protection and infrastructure cannot be dealt with separately. If you really want to shift from road to rail, you have to take two things into account, namely, on the one hand, make real investments – including the Brenner Base Tunnel – and on the other hand, make sure that in the European Union we find more hearings to amend the Grand Road Costs Directive, which even allows the truck transport to be reduced and, at the moment, does not even give us the opportunity to enforce our 4 cents there – even to fight for them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] So: This road cost directive is wrong, because it does not take into account cost reliability, it does not take environmental costs into account, and those who take environmental protection seriously must take environmental costs into account. I therefore also liked the proposal – Mr Marizzi said that – that we need to strengthen the control of trucks. It can't be that the train has to implement new safety regulations every month – that's necessary and right! – but this does not apply to the trucks on the road. The formulation was: foreign trucks. But I think we should control all the trucks driving on the road. All safety requirements should be met. That's how all truck drivers have to keep their rest periods. There are, therefore, concrete control measures to do enough to implement concrete activities in our own country. But there is also a need for a change of attitude within the European Union. I would like to conclude by thanking you for the very busy discussion and looking forward to the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32559	The following speech was spoken as Mr Dr. Count. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32581	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I have spoken subsequently because we have been promised a new parliamentaryism by the SPÖ during this legislative period. But what is happening now – perhaps even out of ignorance – is not what we imagine. We do not see that – and you yourself said it – the Minister has the last word in a debate, especially when it comes to a budget debate. It already belongs to the self-understanding – and I would like to give it to you – that we are going into a discourse with the Minister. But we'd have to hear him before. In contrast to you – and this is the advertising drop in the Rules of Procedure of the National Council – we have only a limited speaking time at our disposal. After we Members have spent our speaking time, the debate of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs will come to an end, and of course he would like to answer all the questions. The Minister would have the opportunity to speak several times, so that we could enter into a discourse. We usually do not have this possibility due to the short time available to us. I would therefore ask you to mention this once again in the Council of Ministers that we do not really appreciate this type of new parliamentaryism and wish that this would be reversed so that we can get into the discourse with the ministers. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] So that you may not have the last word, Mr Minister, I have now referred to you for a word. I like the justification you gave in the committee for the fragmentation of the resorts. I think that's great. However, I already know this reason that you have provided here from all your predecessors. However, I also know the opposite views, namely that it is better to focus on the final political responsibility. That sounds good. We take note of this. We also note that no matter what political party was at work, this problem has not been solved differently. Sometimes it has even worsened. The fact that I am no longer aware of is that we have split the research agendas here in the House for the first time. And we are not responsible for this, but we are responsible for it ourselves. We have given the whole thing one more time and therefore it is likely that it will be much more difficult to focus on it in the future. - That's the one point I wanted to put on here. Another thing: In my opinion – and I am now dealing with the field of research and technology development – you have also made some positive contributions to note. The budget coordinates are all right, we can support that, we like it very well. Of course, it can be more and more – no question! – also in this area. I am particularly pleased as Martin Graf, I am now saying that you are building on a foundation in this area in BMVIT, which has always been miscredited by the many ministerial changes in the past, which was certainly not beneficial for the whole, but structurally you have not changed anything. It has, as has been said, been created in the last six years a structure on which you can obviously build well. What hurts me a little is that now, with this climate fund, which will ultimately distribute economic promotion to a good part and will not be technology promotion – but that does not matter – new organisations will be created for initiatives that are quite welcome, which the old ones – whether this is AWS or FFG or whatever – could have done. But I see, there is also the desire to occupy posts, and of course you have to take this into account, not a question. [[Abg. Olympians: You weren't bad!]] We will see in the next few weeks and months how many posts have been changed. But many new ones are also created – obviously. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] Maybe that's the one thing. But this is a new discussion that we can also hold. Perhaps you will come to the Committee on Research and Technology on the next occasion, and then we will talk about it. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] I would just like to say one thing at this point, because it is precisely these prejudices that exist: I know, Mr Oellinger, that, regardless of whether someone is more liberal or close to us, you have the opinion that people with a sense of mind, as we have, are not allowed to do anything in this Republic and have not lost anything. [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a little more differentiated!]] And that continues. I do not share this opinion – you will admit it to me – because I believe that there are very, very many wise, decent and good people in our camp too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Very many not! Some!]] If you do this from the house, it speaks for itself, especially with regard to your family. But it really doesn't matter. I believe that there is a structurally good system in BMVIT in the field of research landscape, infrastructure, as well as research funding. They build on all that was ultimately foreseen in the government agreement 2000 and 2002, which I negotiated for my group at the time. You take over this structure. Of course, you can do anything better. We have also had to make compromises. We should have done something different. So essentially take over You are the structures of our time in government, and I am now excited to see how it will continue. You now have the advantage of being able to draw relatively well from the full in this area. I also believe that no more money is needed in the research funding landscape or in the field of research funding, but rather that it needs to be used efficiently. You are perfectly right if you now demand that an audit or evaluation be carried out externally by the Court of Auditors. I wish these. Then I'll be They recognize that there have been structures where owners have made specifications that have been implemented and over-fulfilled by a managing director. But to this day he is beaten by green and red, by this Secretary of State and so on. The Court of Auditors and an evaluation agency will break up what has been poured out by party-political agitation in recent years by red and green. That's what I'm waiting for! I call on the whole research funding landscape not only to carry out an evaluation but also to carry out an audit of the Court of Auditors. If you don't do that in the next few days – and you could do it – then we can do it. We will certainly make this request. I announce that the Freedom Party – with 20 Members it is possible – will have such an audit of the Court of Auditors so that we can finally talk about results and not Party Policy Propaganda.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32677	No one is reporting on this. In part innovation, transport and technology, this concludes the debate, which is the subject of the debate. [[15:30:43]] Health, Family and Youth Chapter 17: Health Chapter 19: Family and Youth
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32710	We are now entering into the negotiations on health, family and youth, chapters 17 and 19. As First of all, Mr Grünewald, has been mentioned. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32737	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is possible to compare budget figures up and down at any department, at any ministry. That's not easy, but you can try. Why does that make no sense in the health resort? Why is it most likely more important in the health sector to look at content and establish links to health policy and its costs from there? – Simply because you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are responsible for a budget or have one that is probably one of the lowest in all departments, if not the lowest: good, friendly estimated something over €670 million. If we compare this with the social security budget, this represents about 5 percent of the social security budget, it does not even represent a quarter of the total health costs. And another thing that's quite unpleasant: We all pay about ten times more to the overall health system than to the budget of your resort in numbers. That's remarkable. That means that you can put this budget on Goodwill, appeal, ask – I don't say beg – and try to convince. And what effect does that have? – I would like to give you a few examples: 70 percent of your budget, your curly, narrow budget will eventually be covered or blocked by targeted grants to hospital health care, say hospitals, which significantly reduces the ability to act and control ability. It remains to you a rest of just over € 230 million to set political, health-political accents. There won't be much going on. That's why I'm cutting a little bit now and I'm calling on you to show them where you're inside. Your party or the powerful will blow a fresh wind around your nose, and this is the federal system of which all the experts, some from your place of business, including your predecessor and others with whom we have talked, said only behind our hands: This is a manco of health policy, this fragmentation in the federal system! That is a cost-effective factor, but you must not say it! How do we proceed, how do we solve a dilemma when one makes a bird-strout policy, so to speak, a perpetuum mobile and does not look at reality? Permanently, the Floriani principle: What I save on health costs then pays who else! The fact that health costs do not decrease is simply forgotten or dropped under the table. I can remember that we have put forward proposals regarding palliative medicine, neurorehabilitation, psychotherapy on sick leave, and also in our then discussion with the ÖVP it has always said: Very exciting, actually right, Mr Grünewald, very decent, but it is not financeable! But if I say, Anything or anything that is reasonable, and everything that is decent is not eligible for funding, I wonder: What else are we doing in health policy? And in my opinion, there is already a wild denial process that makes a few things miss. In fact, it was a matter of considering the fact that the largest share of total health costs is de facto social security and health insurance. I find it somewhat infammable when you say – and that is the truth! –: Yes, the covenant requires the cash registers by law what they have to do! The Federation tells them what revenue they can have, on the spot and on the point! Then the necessary services do not go hand in hand with the revenues, and the covenant says: Management failure! – This is not a management failure, I believe that is political failure. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You probably know very well that this increase of 0.15 percent for the health insurance companies is not the final conclusion of wisdom, is not the most social solution and will ensure the liquidity of the cash registers and thus the security for the population, for the old people and for the sick no more than for a short time. They have tailored the harmonisation of contributions and performance to the cash registers and have been described as very positive – that was always our wish – and have started with the local health phone in this regard. Well, that's where it happened! Holladrio can be said. Even I got e-mails that read: Don't get into question! The teacher's health insurance fund of Upper Austria has also written in accordance with the following sentence: We have saved so many deposits! Just about our body! – There is nothing of social compensation to feel nothing of solidarity. And again and again, the fact that the cash receipts depend on how good the wages and salaries of their insurance client are. What I've gotten on letters, and you probably also, that smells crazy after class struggle, but not after a class struggle of the poor, the weak from bottom to top, but after one from top to bottom: the wealthy just don't want to give up anymore. And if even the ÖVP's economic association – Mitterlehner and Leitl – says that one should relieve the factor of work, one should certainly include non-paid and salary-dependent profits of the richest perhaps 10 percent of the population in thought to finance health, then the entire ÖVP with its future commission is mosquito silence. – I would really ask you to show Courage here: Next point: Neurorehabilitation and its shortcomings. In this area, one third of treatment sites are missing in the stationary and outpatient areas. How do you want to finance this? – We have a five-party request, which says: Yes! How do you want to finance psychotherapy on sick leave in order not to disadvantage mental illness against those who break a leg, tear a band, have migraines, because they have to pay almost everything themselves? How do you want to make sure that hospice and palliative medicine is not dependent on donations from the three-king finger and the caritas alone, but can rely on viable funding? How do you – and you have spoken very bravely – want to finance education, not only in the case of sex diseases, but also in the case of prevention in schools? How do you want a pill on a health certificate? Now I don't even talk about the pill after that, let's start with the pill before it! – so finance that this does not cause any inhibition thresholds? I am not talking about morals, but about being able to afford it financially. Have you considered that unwanted pregnancies or actually only unwanted pregnancies lead to breakdowns and what they have for consequences, physical nature, psychological nature, emotional nature, but also financial nature? Don't you think there's something to do? – I believe that we need to have such discussions on the subject. I come to the end of my remarks. To bring some scurriles: In principle, the health reform has good approaches, but if I initiate a request in Tyrol by colleagues in the Landtag, what the Mrs Landesratin für Gesundheit, Deputy Party President and Deputy Head of State, will give as an answer when I ask: [[Abg. Head: Deputy Head of State!]] What happens to the reform pool, what happens to the control area of the health platform, I get a written answer: The control area is purely virtual, the federal government has nothing to say! If people don't agree, there are no projects! – Luckily up!, I say here like my predecessor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32822	Mr Rasinger has now come to speak. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32844	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Mr Grünewald, I would like to refer to your comments as soon as possible: Yes, every health reform is before the next reform, Seehofer has already said. [[Abg. Head: Each way begins with the first step!]] And second: Every health reform is drilling hardest boards, which is not only for Austria, that is internationally so. If I look at the government programme, I find a sentence that we both as doctors and also the woman minister cannot hold high enough, namely: a high-level care, regardless of age and income! I think that's the crucial point in the whole context, and if you do that... Thank you! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Professor Rasinger, the boards in the ÖVP are the thickest!]] I would not have needed this advice, but perhaps, Mr Oillinger, I would have liked to say that Once you need the health care, then you will be grateful that committed politicians have provided you with the necessary beds or resources. You'll see! From your contribution, Mr Green Forest, I have taken the sentence: You have to look at the problems! - That's what we want, that's exactly what the Minister is doing! For example, if you criticize the fact that you do something in sexual education, I have to say: Yes, it is a problem that there are more syphilis cases, and I think it's right to point out! Of course, the minister can't be at every school and teach. [[Abg. Oillingers: But the students are not those who have syphilis!]] Of course, there will also be parents who are against it. But don't be angry with me, it's just important: Precaution is better than healing! Or: If there were already 166 children in Graz this year because they were de facto unconscious after drinking, that's just too much. That is where we must look, and that is what we must do about it. Or: Although smoking still has a lot of things in it, I mean: Those who are forced to suffer are also entitled to deal with their problems. And when we talk about action, I can say: Of course, health policy means constantly trying to bring good solutions. For example, we are now bringing a new solution to the restrictions on drug costs. It may be so for everyone that it's late or that you could have done it earlier. I'll tell you: George Bush promised eight years ago to bring American pensioners a relief in the cost of medicine. [[Abg. Ollinger: Bush is a bad example!]] In America, 80-year-olds have to work in the supermarket so that they can afford the drug costs. The 2-percent model – net! – I think it’s correct, I find it socially balanced, and I find it fair, and it’s a milestone, and I thank the Social Democrats for doing this together and putting it into practice together. The third point I would like to mention in my speech is: We are not the island of the Blessed, but we are not the island of the bad. If I look at this in Germany, I notice: In Germany there is a kind of forced privatisation. 25 percent of hospitals must either be locked up or relocated to pure private hospitals. What does that lead to? – This leads them to have up to 80 kilometres of distance to the nearest hospital, especially in the former Eastern regions. We don't need to talk about quality anymore, because until salvation is with the patient, it is already damaged either in heaven or long ago. You know, then private chains say: We don't need the anaesthesiologist anymore, but we're going back to the anaesthesia nurse, and the anaesthesiologist is supervising five operations! – I don’t think that’s right, because every quality assurance ceases, because the risk remains with one poor anaesthetic, not with the superior chain. And here, the Austrian system is a thousand times preferable to me that we have holding companies that work privately. But you can't privatize the care order, because it divides the patients into good and bad. The good patients are those who need hips, stents or heart surgery that are poor 75-year-olds, older people who are slightly confused, have heart failure, rheuma have et cetera. It's really a problem when we divide patients into good and bad. For me, there's only one patient, the one in need. And then again I come back to the principle of the EIA in health policy, and that is quite clear: We want a high level of care for all, regardless of age and income! We can only implement this principle if we have politicians with hearts who look and not look away, and I believe that we are currently well removed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32938	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 10 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e32960	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I would like to start by referring a little to the remarks made by my previous speaker. A motto of the ÖVP is: High-quality care regardless of age and income. – Yes, no, no, thank God we all want this here, but obviously the way there is a bit different, because what is currently showing up in health policy is exactly the opposite. When I look at the fact that health care management in 2007 is responsible for saying and writing € 233 million is available – Mr Green Forest has already said that – I have to say: That's a nice number, but you can't really move something in the health system. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] In the Coalition Convention, for example, the great announcement of precautionary measures was still to be found. These are only very rudimentary in the budget: no money for prevention, no money for vaccinations. And Mrs. Minister has explained to us in the Subcommittee that the Pneumococcal vaccination for risk children is coming anyway, or something like that. Minister! That's already present, there's already now, that's nothing new, that's standard, you haven't negotiated anything about it! I admit, the Rotavirus has taken you, it's also very plausible, but everything else remains with the old. For HPV vaccination: Although you have explained a great deal to us in the Committee what is actually going on and why this is not so important anyway and is anyway not so good and is anyway only one strain, 70 percent of all cases of cervical cancer are due to Papilloma strains 16 and 18 and therefore 70 percent of all these diseases are preventable with vaccination. I understand: We don't have money now, and that's obvious, we don't need to discuss it now. But, Mrs. Minister, then you're gonna make yourself up and say, The money is not available, we don't have it! or: I've been negotiating too badly! – this is also a possibility! – the Minister of Finance did not give it to me! That would be honest, and that would be good, but what you are doing here is producing and saying: We want the highest level of optimal care!, but in reality we want to act differently. This is a step in favour of a two-class medicine to which we are referring, and for that we are certainly not to have from the FPÖ! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the topic of prevention, I now appreciate your condom action. I mean, it's been said and written a lot about it. Quite honestly, the preventive character of your action I can't really recognize when 25 students get a condom from you. Not even the 25 students really have something of it now. Then: If you really would have wanted to do this if you had really wanted to take preventive measures, then it would have been a failure if you had marched from school to school without media support, marched from class to class, and had really reached many students. So you give big over OTS, beyond the APA a message: Then and then all the media are cordially invited: I'm distributing condoms! – That's all right, that's not prevention! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You want to save the 150 € efficiency increase at the health insurance companies, you also told us that. It all sounds very nice, but we didn't hear how and where. Although you have made significant statements in the Committee, you have not actually come to the point. You owe us these explanations to this day, just as you owe us your cookbook for pig bread, and just as you owe us many, many more of your announcements. Mrs. Kdolsky, you are at real risk of developing into a political looting bag. [[Abg. Steibl: There are already Westenthalers anyway!]] They announce major reforms. We have indeed put great hopes in you in itself, and if you now announce measures, such as about 24 hours of willingness for doctors, pooling the health insurance funds, harmonizing the doctor's fees, then we are quite in agreement with you, for all these are good proposals, Mrs Minister, but unfortunately God's relativizes this little 24 hours later, and another 24 hours later all this has disappeared in the ministerial drawer. That's what it's like: They release announcements, according to the motto: If I can't move anything else, I'll at least get back on the cover of a newspaper! But this cannot be what we expect from a minister. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The much praised non-smoker protection, for which you stand now, has actually become a real smoker hate. When you were – so well defined – an opportunity smoker, you said in a “standard” interview: As long as it is possible, I will not discriminate against the smokers, because in many locals the non-smoking areas are much larger than the smoking area anyway! Today we're standing there, and what's now? – Two days ago I'm glad you said: No, it's all different, the locals don't stick to it, now we have to make a law, and now we're going over it with the tearwolf! – That’s your method! We of the FPÖ already said months ago before you started this smoker hat: If we take the tax on cigarettes, if we take the tobacco tax – which is, after all, a big pieces in the budget – we do it for purpose, we lead it to the health system! On the one hand, we can finance the consequences of smoking diseases, we can also offer smokers opportunities to undergo really meaningful therapies in order to be weaned by their addiction! – But nothing is happening at all! Now the foreign exchange is: Prohibit, punish, waste! This is a mentality with which we cannot really start anything at all. In reality, you don't only harm the smokers. Then: If you forbid smoking in the locals now, don't stop smoking alone – not one, I tell you! – but the gastronists are the ones who now have to bake the soup. That's it! What do you have to offer in the health system? – We have a 0.15 percent increase in health insurance contributions, I know. Two days ago, the Minister of Finance was thinking about what this was all about, saying: This is not even 10 € for a gross income of 1 000 €! To do this, I have to say: This may not be a lot of money for the Minister of Finance, but for someone who deserves €1,000 gross, it is a very nice burden! That's exactly why the ÖVP went on 1st. October has been selected: because it is unsocial and because it does not think of the small and medium-sized levels of income in this country! That's exactly what you're going to do now – with the help of the SPÖ, where I can't understand why the SPÖ is sitting here and silent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But well, that must be the SPÖ with itself and with its clientele. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It's exactly that: We hear the sentence: There is no money in the system! That's probably the right thing, even the right one. And it is also quite right that I made a request here a few months ago. I have often said that we have tabled a motion for a resolution which includes a social security scheme for foreigners. He was rejected here as a whole. If you'd gone this way with us, maybe we'd be better there. You have not even approved the exam! Now we're in the clamp, now we're in front of a dilemma, the health care is bubbling, as it were, but nothing happens. In reality, we are being praised – how did you say, Mr Rasinger? – high-quality care cannot be provided in the long term. We can't actually afford it right now. We already have two-class medicine in many areas. I've already mentioned it: These are vaccinations in infants, vaccinations in adults. But this is also true in dentistry, for example; this is also a factor that shows that we have a living two-class medicine. – So that’s your policy, and that’s exactly what we reject, because it doesn’t really do anything in the health system! At present, it is about covering the self-holding. We were able to read about it yesterday in the APA that it is recommended that a system prepared by the Expert Commission includes a target group of approximately 300 000 Austrians to benefit from this cover. And the rest? - I don't know! You have Your decision has not yet been announced. We will make your decision and see if it comes. However it may be, the learned Austrian already knows that nothing is going to happen and it will fall through the rust again – that is, once again a broken election promise. That's where I ask the SPÖ to: Stay on it, insist that there is really a cover for all patients and that not only a few come to this enjoyment when you have already announced it so big! A word on another topic: She is not only a Minister of Health, but also a Minister for Family Affairs and Youth. There is nothing to be seen for young people in this budget at all. On the contrary, the youth will have to do away with these exorbitant debts in the future. They give young people a backpack with debts; young people will notice that. The only thing that is done for the young people now is to reduce the age of election to 16 years. That's a beautiful and a pious idea. Only – and believe me, Madam Minister, believe me, ladies and gentlemen of the coalition! –: The young people are not so stupid, they know exactly who is responsible for them now, who leaves them the debt mountain, who leaves them a construction site and who does nothing for them! Examples are: no grants for apprentices, no abolition of tuition fees. All these are topics that move young people today. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] All of these are topics that you will be able to put to the table completely and which do not appear in your youth policy. Therefore: Don't look too early at the fact that you have lowered the electoral age, because the closed hearts of the coalition parties are carefully perceived by the young people!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33100	The next item is Mrs Oberhauser's speech. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33122	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are going to face a serious time when rationalization and sparingness will be necessary in every area. – This is not, as one could believe, the beginning of the budget speech of the Minister of Finance Molterer, but this quote is from Julius Tandler, who in 1920, as Under-Secretary of State for Public Health, was responsible for many of the fundamental reforms of the Austrian health system. It has come about relatively quickly that it makes sense to invest in the prevention of diseases and not just to invest in the treatment of diseases. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But you also know what Julius Tandler has said?]] We have decided in our Government Convention to give wide scope to prevention: The legal anchorage in a preventive law and the necessary financial resources, which are, of course, to be required, by means of resources, such as dedicated funds from the tobacco tax, will be an objective that we will have to implement in the next four years. Another rethinking – compared to the last years – has occurred in the question of dealing with self-holding. For a long time, it was common to finance the medicine for the most part over self - retention. With the ÖVP, we have now succeeded for the first time in fixing a cap of self-holding to 2% of net monthly income. Believe me, we will insist that it is 2% for every Austrian and every Austrian, not only for a limited group of people! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If this is not a course correction, I ask: What else is a course correction? The Federal Chamber of Labour also attests in the assessment of the government programme that it is positive to note that there are no prospects for privatisation contained in the last government agreements. – This is especially addressed to the address of the BZÖ and also to those of the FPÖ who now criticise the efficient use of funds, but at the time had no restraints to make clear their access to the private wallets of the Austrians! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: But go!]] It is no secret that, after social democracy, we would have wanted to put the funding of health care on significantly wider legs and not rely on wage dependency alone. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Higher health insurance contributions!]] The fact that we did not succeed in these government negotiations is also obvious. That it could be more and more, we have heard from every speaker, every speaker to every chapter in the last few days and also today. In the Health chapter, it is also the same way: Of course we would like more money. All the more important it will be for us to ensure that the funds we have really come to patients and are not used exclusively to finance areas distributed from the ministry. Our goal is quite clear: All people living in this country must have access to Austrian health care regardless of age, income and origin. In this we see our task, and we will push for it too!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33200	Next come Mr Dolinschek. 7 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33221	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! In recent years, the health sector has certainly been one of the most difficult areas in policy, since it was important to maintain and develop a health system on the one hand, but on the other hand to also set up reforms to ensure quality medicine for all in the future. Reforms in the coordination of services between the hospitals and the established area, to conduct land platforms, negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry, to introduce e-card as a substitute for the health certificate, which took a very, very long time, all this has shown that there has been some progress in this area. The continuation of this structural reform, the reduction of double-tracks in these areas, has also been promoted. I only recall the merger of social security institutions and the reduction of VAT on medicines. There was no increase in health insurance contributions, as it has now been agreed. We were in the time we spent in the government, the guarantee that there had been no increase in health insurance contributions. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Now there is an increase in health insurance contributions by 0.15%. [[Abg. Oils: Has there been with you too!]] No, we didn't have one. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Ambulance fee!]] We are still looking at the cover at the recipe fee. It is certainly interesting to discuss a cover of 2% of the annual income, which for the unemployed, emergency workers, pensioners with low incomes and chronically ill – compensation payers have also been completely exempt from the prescription fee so far. But it's still a mystery to me, how the whole thing is administered and what effort it will require. Mrs Bundesminister, I am already very excited who controls this too. Will that make the health insurance? Is that what the settled doctor will do? – We also have certain data protection issues when the established doctor is running through the e-card: Then, of course, the settled doctor also looks into the respective income. In turn, it is very interesting how this is carried out, because data protection in Austria is a very sensitive topic. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I can't do that!]] I'm excited. There's nothing out there yet. Mr Grünewald, I am waiting for the government proposal or the proposals that will be put forward. We don't know anything in detail. I'm just saying, It is certainly a social policy measure in which it is interesting how it works and how it is done. Due to the proposed income limits, which now account for 2% of the annual income, less revenue can be expected. We all know that. This is estimated at €45 million to €50 million per year, which is expected. In my opinion, the introduction of this upper limit is a social policy measure, but we also need to be aware that there must be some compensation for these less-incomes. This must also come from somewhere, and this loss of income must be compensated for by something. Mrs Bundesminister, there are now several proposals you are considering. You'll tell us in time, and I'm already eager to see who's paying the whole thing. Now for child care: This is certainly one of the most important family policies in recent years. The scheme has been in force for more than four years. She has proved herself, no one wants to abolish her anymore. They used to say: That is unfinancial, it means “Women Back to Herd! ” Today everyone is satisfied with it, it's okay. Not only do those self-employed women who become mothers have the opportunity to receive karenz money, but child care benefits also receive students, students as well as farmers and self-employed workers. What was always a thorn in our eye is the limit of merit. We from the BZÖ never wanted to have a commitment limit, because every child is worth the same amount. There is a great administrative burden to be compensated for. The abolition of this limit would be a clear signal of family policy towards more freedom of choice. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In any case, this would also be an incentive for better-earning fathers to go to Karenz. It is always complained that only a very small part of the fathers go to Karenz. That would be a measure, which could lead to more men going to Karenz. A complete and retroactive abolition of the child care allowance would therefore be most urgently needed and an enormous improvement. The estimated additional costs – Mrs Bundesminister, who has put you in the room – resulting from this would amount to € 250 to 300 million. I can't confirm that. Of course, they could also be compensated for by a lower administrative burden; it is again the question of how high the same is. This is what the family councillor Mikl- Leitner from Lower Austria himself has in the “Nederösterreichische Nachrichten” of the 16th century. April said that the administration saved 100 million. That's why it's pari somewhere soon: What do you want me to do with people when nothing comes in? – This is like the bagatell taxes. There was also a child allowance for the karenz money that existed before 2000. That was in the time of the red-black government, and that was never controlled either. In 2004, this was virtually abolished by government decision and Parliament. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] That was what Mr Bundesminister Haupt has suggested; it was a politician with the right spot, Mrs Colleague! He did this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister, if you now want to stick to the limit of trust, this is anti-work and performance, I have to say, as well as non-reality, and it is quite simply opposed to a positive development in the compatibility of family and work. I put to the conclusion the following motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, Ursula Haubner and colleagues. The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government is invited to establish a model for the tax deductibility of child care costs or for the introduction of a care check and to forward it to the National Council in good time, so that implementation with 1. 1. ==References== In addition, the Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth is asked to provide for the abolition of the amount of child care allowance in the novel she announced to reform the child care allowance.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33330	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been duly supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33382	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33403	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A compliment, Mrs Bundesminister, on the successful budget negotiations for the benefit of the Austrian families! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The child care scheme has already been addressed by my previous speakers, very impulsive by Mrs Belakovich, as well as by Mr Dolinschek. But I think we're on the right track with our government template. There are 60 million € available. This will be a model that continues the success model on the part of the Austrian People's Party, child care for all. Valorisation of the contribution basis for pension contributions for children is also important. I would like to remind you that we have been successful in the last six years. This means that more than € 436 million and € 518 million are available here. An important point is also the increase that a novelle will make in this year, namely the supplement to the family allowance – for the third child at €35 per month and €50 for each other, but also the increase in the income limit for the multiple child supplement from €45 000 per year to €55 000 per year. I would like to talk briefly about innovative childcare. Here there were these so - called kindergarten billions; that was exactly €700 000 last year. Now, €800 000 is each planned for new projects, for the continuation of innovative childcare facilities. I would like to say here that I have a list from the former Ministry of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Haubner, which lists where these €700 000 went. I have to say that it is very risky if Mr Westenthaler submits a motion of censure to our Mrs Federal Minister! On the other hand, it could be done, as half of the approved projects in Carinthia are at home, of these €700 000 available for projects! In my knowledge, Austria has more federal countries than Carinthia. I would like to say that I wish – and I am convinced that this will not be the case – that this will not only be more innovative in the future, but also with more quality and solidarity towards all the other federal states – because projects have, I know, also been given in Styria, but the Styria has not been approved by any project. I would like to address the further development of the family advisory services very briefly. In other words, there is an extension of supply in terms of prevention, strengthening parents in the field of education and also in the field of partner education. More than €700 000 will be available here. It is precisely the area of strengthening parents in their education tasks that I believe is an important approach to the welfare of our families. Summary: In 2007, €5.96 billion are planned for the family and youth sectors and €6 billion in 2008. Austria's family support continued to strengthen its top position with this budget in international comparison. I congratulate our Mrs. Federal Minister once again!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33467	Mrs Zwerschitz is now speaking. 6 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33489	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to talk about youth policy. Mr Molterer, in his speech, spoke of a generation-friendly budgetary and financial policy, and also meant that we should leave young people more behind than yesterday's debts. I would like to add: We should also offer more to young people now. Unfortunately, I did not find much in the budget. In our society, there is currently little room for children and young people. A playground is more considered to be a noise nuisance than a much busy road, as we know. We also had at the end of March a maximum number of unemployed young people of 62 582, which I very much regret. This is the unsightly number, the number of young people seeking an apprenticeship, and the number of young people who are in any measure. So, it is not the pure number of unemployed, as it is “sold to us. ” Over 62,000 unemployed! Although the flower bonus seems to have helped, it does not seem to be enough. We are very much in favour, and I would urge you to do more in the labour market policy especially for young people, especially when the SPÖ stresses that there is a poverty focus. Income from own work is still the best fight against poverty. Today, young people and children are often a financial burden. Another post that contributes to this is the increasing privatisation of school costs, whether it's a laptop, school country weeks, ski lessons – very high expenses – or school books. For example, the money available for the Free School Book Action is already too little, because school books just cost a lot more these days. And these costs are privatized by “relying ” the copy costs of necessary documents on the parents. We welcome the increase in student support if we are also very sorry that you have not been able to agree to increase this index at least annually. It cannot be that, although all taxes are increasing regularly, aid is only available if it is included in the budget. We also miss the right to education. Unfortunately, the reduction in the age of elections has not become a particularly obvious priority. There is less investment in non-school education than in musical education. I know I have been given the answer, one can move in these areas, and the youth organizations will be assigned the money after applications. I think, however, that in times of electoral age reduction and in particular in this high-grade application, how it is constantly operated, where this policy is actually being implemented all the time, that it is quite certain that it is already there, and that we all suddenly want it, it is absolutely essential to put a focus in this area too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The main point I've made is the Federal Youth Fund. I very much regret that there are no increases here. There is also no index adjustment. The number of youth organisations entitled to federal youth support is constantly increasing. That means, the cake pieces are getting smaller and smaller when nothing is done here. The Federal Youth Funding is a very important point for me, because here young people have the opportunity to develop independent projects, to develop independent projects, to make their own policies and to work for our society and for their own environment. It is this participatory approach, which is very valuable and very important. Young people are free to decide what they want, but it is not quite free: There are also legal conditions. The Federal Youth Funding calls for the development of mental, psychological, physical, social, political, religious and ethical competences, the commitment to the democratic Republic of Austria, the fundamental values of peace, freedom, parliamentary democracy and human rights. Unfortunately, I heard yesterday that there is a youth organization that is moving almost outside this framework, which dares to demand that people arrested in neo-Nazi remorse be released again, which means that the ban on re-activating would not in fact be a good idea and not a good law, and which therefore does not move within this framework of the Federal Youth Promotion Act. At least I have the impression that it is being handled very tolerantly when various organizations that have human relationships with any neonazist sizes repeatedly escape at this border of the Tolerable. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I find this particularly worrying on the occasion of the fact that we are invited to a commemorative meeting every next week. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33598	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Zwerschitz is sufficiently supported, duly tabled and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33659	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33681	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that, from our point of view, the new Federal Government will tackle and prepare urgently necessary reforms in childcare money. And I can only be surprised if Mr Dolinschek spoke about the fact that child benefits had proved to be so good. Of course, everyone likes to take the money; that is indisputable, it is also granted to everyone. But I would recommend that you look at the evaluation report you have commissioned. There it is shown that there is a great need for correction and that child care money in the current form has clearly missed all the goals set at that time. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You can always talk about an improvement!]] That is why I am very pleased that we are now working together to improve and further develop the childcare allowance. This is, on the one hand, the first level of flexibility, the possibility of using 15 plus three months for higher benefit. I think this is a very important measure. There is already a great deal of interest. Many are already wondering if this will apply to them. I think that, after a short observation period, we should also try to implement further flexibilisation stages in this legislative period, if this is proven and if it is used strongly, which I am supposed to be. With regard to the limit of award and also to the request submitted by Mr Dolinschek, it is planned to raise the limit of the award. However, I think that we should use the chaos you, Mrs. Federal Minister, had to take over from your predecessor as far as the administration of the recovery of the corresponding credit limit is concerned to tackle a more fundamental, larger reform. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Well, not really!]] The increase in the limit is a point. I think we should also construct them differently and make them more transparent, so easier to understand for those concerned. And I believe that it would also be beneficial to create a greater choice here for parents by allowing them to choose between a monetary limit or a time limit, i.e. the possibility of reducing working time in the same way in this reform. In my view, I consider the replacementless removal of the limit of merit to be politically reprehensible. We have heard from the Budget Committee that costs of around €300 million would be incurred. In any event, the replacement-free removal of the token limit would have the effect that in the future all the fathers in the year in which they do not normally stay at home, in which only very few fathers stay at home, would receive six months' money without changing their lives. I don't understand either. Their argument that a six-month relationship of child money with the fathers would result in a greater incentive for fathers to go in Karenz, says: to stay at home. On the contrary! They could continue to work quite normally and no longer take a minute to care for the children – and would nevertheless get the money. A lot of money without a family policy effect really seems to me to be a pointless variant. That's what I'd say: If the money should be there, you should rather put it in the extension of the childcare facilities. We need this for many, many reasons, among other things as a flanking measure on this flexibility model.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33733	The next item is the speech of Mrs Rosenkranz. 6 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33755	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! It is not unknown to us that you also have a certain problem with tolerance and freedom of expression with the ideological background that characterizes you. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I can only tell you that again. For us, who we call our liberals, this is in the foreground. Should I now quote the Rosa Luxembourg that freedom is always the freedom of the other? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or Voltaire – what I prefer to do –: that freedom of expression, of course, can only be called, the repulsive, the objectionable opinion, because the opinion I share myself, I will join myself. I don't need to be generous. On behalf of the Liberals, I would like to point out that the defamation of the RFJ, by the way, Free youth means – at least you should know the right name – back and also point out that Green Party Youth was seen with transparents on the State Day, apologise; I quote: Home in the heart – shit in the brain. – It’s not quite ideal either, I’d mean. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But now again on the subject of family policy. – We have had the opportunity to talk about it several times in recent times. What has been quite striking and evident in recent months, in the first 100 days of this government, is that there has been an approach to the positions between red-green and also the ÖVP, very sorry, because it is actually so that the ÖVP seems ready to give up the red-green position, and all this under the title of colorfulness and openness and urbanity and so on and so on. – A certain bourgeois crisis, which is not unusual, but it is regrettable. They are looking for alternative life forms, patchwork – everything is good, just not one: the “dust” model of the classic family – under quotation marks. That is why it is all the more important that we formulate very clear positions here for ourselves. The so-called classical family as the connection between a man and a woman created by love and the common concern for the common children is not any exodus model, ladies and gentlemen, this is an anthropological success model! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Love is available in many forms!]] That is what – of course, in various shades – is indeed the germ cell of every state and every community over all centuries and all cultures. From exit model: There you can see the propaganda and, so to speak, the attempt to create a certain mood. Do you know how many couples are living in Austria? - Two million! Of these, 1.7 million are in “classical ” Married married, and 300,000 live in a non-lawful community. They describe the standard model – 85 percent of Austrians are married! – as an outlet model! That's absurd! But this cannot be seen as a mistake, but there is an intention behind it. It's clear to us: The so-called classical family, that is, the lasting relationship between the parents of the children and the children, is what we put at the heart of our reflections as ideal. Of course, we know that it is the essence of an ideal to be able to approach him; yet, it is the ideal. As far as living communities are concerned, one thing is quite clear: The children who grow up from these communities must not be disadvantaged in any way. It's not legal either. But otherwise, we think it is reasonable for people who could marry, but who do not, obviously, not to do so because they want to avoid legal consequences, to do so. The same applies to single-parents. No question: Care must be taken for the children! On the topic of registered partnerships for gender equality, we have already outlined our position: This is not in question for us! [[Calls to the Greens.]] That is what I have now set aside, so to speak, and we are very different. And we also differ in the assessment of the importance of this matter. Of course, you say about the ÖVP again and again, and this is also true that the family is the germ cell of the state. That's actually the way it is. But you also have to take it seriously and implement it in the sense. So it is the social unity that is kept far ahead of reason by bonds, but it is also the social unity, where children are first born. And then I'm in the demographic situation right away. We take here, and this is already very unfortunate, in contrast to you a real alarm situation. That's it. Mrs. Federal Minister, none of us has ever kept you childless. This has never happened, but we have criticized you for expressing your opinion in a rather little “thinking” work – even before you were a minister, of course, it must be granted – that you have described your relationship with children who do not really correspond to the value of the children. But it was before that time, and I mentioned that too. And that's probably the last time I'm gonna blame you. We also do not accuse you of representing yourself in a way that, if you were to be malicious, you could be called a clairvoyance. It's always good to appear, but: If I were your consultant or consultant, I'd advise you to something else. But we don't blame you for that. What we are blaming is that you do not recognize the seriousness – and this accusation is directed above all at you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP; the Minister of Health is not aware of the situation. And that's very unfortunate. I have in my mind the last speech by Mr Fassleven, which he has held here, and that was also such a demographic legacy. I can't believe you don't want to understand. I can tell you an example that a very courageous bishop, when he spoke to us, brought. He was on visitation in a community, has been given the baptism books, has looked at them and then said to the mayor: Did you figure out when the last one of you died? – Horror in the municipality: What does he say?- Oh, my God! That's what he said: That's a fact, that's not a prognosis. This is a statistics, and you can calculate that. – All look slightly cluttered – that was nothing contrary – and say: Yeah, you can't do anything! – Says the Bishop: If you see, Mr. Mayor, that up there – it was in Tyrol – an avalanche begins to solve, then what do you do? - Well, I'll call everyone together, and we'll fix the problem. And what are you doing? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can't believe you don't understand what every club owner gets: If the old members die out of him and he doesn't win any new ones, then let him stay! Then it is uninteresting whether he buys a new kitchen or whether you plan two more events in the year X, because there will no longer be this club. That's how a politician must think! [[Abg. Oils: We don't die out already!]] Yes, absolutely, with certainty, if there is not a turnaround in the trend! That's the point: The Austrians will have no future! The people who migrate bring their own world. Did you notice that?- Oh, my God! This society is also done with us. Then there will be no emancipation of the sexes. Then there will be no separation between church and state. That's a fact! And it's strange that people who beat so well in many areas, think perfectly analytic and make cross-links don't understand this basic element. I really can't believe it! This budget shows that this seriousness has not at least entered the political reality. It is not an attempt to alleviate the family poverty, which is, of course, a poverty of the multiple-child families – we propose a family tax division here – nor has the attempt started to somehow attack the age insurance of those who secure the pensions of all by raising children. By the way, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: You rightly criticised the fact that the pension reform has made women worse during the last legislative period. We have discussed again and again, at that time still in the FPÖ, so to speak, internally. It is. And you have also promised again and again, you will fix it. By the way, it is not in this direction – nothing in this direction – to increase the value of women who are raising these children. I think you can't really be so unreasonable that it stays that way. We do not give up, we appeal again and are confident that sometime the back will go through your ranks, take note of the reality – yes, the reality will take note – and try to create a future for this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33861	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e33882	Madam President. Mrs Rosenkranz, one thing I must say to you in your presentation of reality: Even if the problems are there and we take them seriously, it sounds rather like a story of a politician, a mother who would rather encourage the children and young people in that country. [[Abg. Rosary: Is also a show story!]] If you have the prospect that we all die out anyway, then we can all go home now and call out the anarchy. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: How to exclaim the anarchy when we are extinct?]] Then everything we do now is completely free in 50, 100 or 500 years. And I'm not standing here today as a young person. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also invite you: Go optimistically to this world! We live in a beautiful world, young people deserve to be encouraged, to have opportunities and to be supported by adults, especially politicians. What you're doing is putting courage into the world. This does not in any way support children and young people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: That was a call!]] Mrs Zwerschitz said earlier that there was no place for young people in Austria. – That is exactly what this Federal Government has jointly put on its feet, which will be the subject again next week, namely young people in the process of co-determination, in the process of participation, even now, at an earlier age – what is it other than to give place to young people in this country? [[Abg. Oillinger: Why are you against it all the time? They were always against it!]] We have agreed to reduce the electoral age to 16 years, for several reasons. And you're gonna make yourself up here and say, There's no place for young people? – I ask It's more like: Where are your youth representatives with the Greens? Where are the boys who make youth policy here? - I don't see her. And I think that is also the point of giving responsibility to young people. That's where you're going after the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You said you missed the right to education. Then I would recommend the article 2 of the 1. Read additional protocols to the European Convention on Human Rights. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dwarf.]] There it is – I quote –: ‘The right to education must not be denied to anyone.’ I know you're a new Member, but maybe you're throwing. Let's take a look at the Constitution. There you will find the right to education very well. I believe that this should be a basic condition that you have to know before you make policy here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much of what we have done in the youth chapter is not a question of money. One cannot always argue, and this is not possible unless there is no money for it. Firstly, youth is a cross-sectional matter, that is, many other departments are affected. We spend a lot of money on youth employment. You said the flower bonus seems to have helped. - That's where you're cheating. Look at this again: He helped. [[Abg. Dwarf: Yes, but he has...!]] That's why he's being carried on. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Secondly. If we want to tackle the protection of young people who want to anchor children's rights in the Constitution, this is not a question of money either, but it is a sensible measure that has nothing to do with money at all. [[Abg. Dwarf: The Convention on Children's Rights...!]] - What do we mean, we don't? It's in the government program! The Minister announced it. I would rather invite you, Mrs Zwerschitz, even if you are of the opposition: Trust to cooperate!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34031	Next, Mr Magistrate. Darmann in word. 5 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34052	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery! Good day! At the beginning of my speech, I would like to address a point that was actually raised yesterday in the budget debate on the subject of justice, which included a multi-party proposal, which may well also have a reference to youth policy, namely the ban on the profession of sexual offenders on their professional activities in the context of children and young people. [[Abg. Oellinger: You shouldn't have brought that now!]] – Mr Ollinger, please give me a moment to hold back! I'm talking now! Thank you. A topic that the BZÖ wants to pursue since it was founded – this has actually been achieved after yesterday's prelude. We were able to submit an application with the ÖVP, FPÖ and SPÖ for the examination of legal possibilities. I very much welcome this. I would also like to thank you on this page. We are very sorry that the Greens were not even prepared on this issue, namely a review of legal possibilities. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: We don't know your whole...!]] - Well, please. Would you have read this yesterday? You haven't even read the application and already said no. [[Abg. Oillinger: We have certain incidents in your eye!]] Now to the youth budget itself. To this end, it should be noted that in the budget chapter 19 – you will be interested in that number 19 – in which “family and youth” are included, only the actual expenditure is indicated, namely € 8.5 million for 2007. This is an increase of only €200 000 compared to 2006. No further increase is planned for 2008. That is, 2007 to 2008 the sum will be frozen. For this reason, I am already wondering – and you, Mrs Federal Minister, have to let the question arise – how you want to implement the comprehensive youth policy measures announced in the government programme with such a low budgetary basis. However, I would also like to address the need to ensure the financial security of minors. I would like to mention a few figures in order to give a better description of the problem raised. In 2004, almost 43 000 children received maintenance advances. The effort for this amounted to around €100 million, and has been around €100 million annually since then, out of funds from the family compensation fund. Only about €42 million of them are refunded annually by the maintenance officers. However, despite these payments from the Family Allowance Fund, there are still, unfortunately, a number of gaps through which families can get into emergency situations, as the provision of minor children is not financially secure. For example, some reasons may be that the parents live separately, the maintenance and performance of the parent in whom the child lives are not sufficient, or that there are sufficient claims for maintenance, however due to the duration of the proceedings, perhaps also by the successful conduct of proceedings by the maintenance debtor a non-bridgeable gap. In cases of such a gap, then, is the only way to resort to social assistance. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that there are, of course, very strict conditions for drawing on this social assistance. Among other things, it is quite possible to demand the economically absurd sale of properties, cars and the like, thereby finally imposing poverty on families who want to benefit from social assistance. The responsibility in this area lies not only with the parents, but also with the federal government and the countries. For the responsibility of the federal government, it would be desirable to speed up the maintenance advance procedures and to ensure that they immediately pay the advance. Countries are required to draw up solutions to close the gap in the case of too low or not due maintenance or an unfit maintenance advance. In this context, I would also like to mention the pioneering role of the country of Carinthia, which has already led to negotiations with the Federal Government during the last legislative period and has also reached a positive conclusion. In this sense, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34154	Mr Haubner, motion for a resolution. Darmann and colleagues have been properly introduced, sufficiently supported and are under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34268	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky is speaking. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34289	Madam President. High house! I am pleased to be able to present to you personally my first budget as Minister of Health, Family and Youth. They all know that in the health sector, the budget chapter 17 does not represent the entire financial dimension of Austrian health care, nor is it an actual mirror of what I have to do as a health minister in control, planning and steering tasks. We address the crucial financing issues, for example social health insurance via the ASVG and other social laws, hospital financing through the financial compensation – i.e. through material laws, which I advise with you in a different context from that of the Federal Budget. In Chapter 17, however, you will find the direct and direct part of the Federal Government for the financing of hospitals as defined in the financial compensation and the corresponding agreement under Article 15a of the Federal Constitution for the financing of Austrian health care. However, I would like to point out that, as a result of the tax revenue, estimates in this area increase from €421 million in 2006 to €431 million in 2007, and to €442 million in 2008, which is a significant increase! Once again, when we convert it from the euro to the old currency, we see the dimensions of these increases. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In general, I would like to say that this does not, of course, solve all the financing issues of the Austrian hospitals, but if we take into account here, together with the planned structural changes, with synergies, with priorities, with integrated central control variants and are efficient and economically efficient, and if we consider the encouraging development on the Austrian labour market and the naturally related higher contribution of social health insurance, you will also be able to confirm to you that funding for the hospitals is currently developing a little and increasingly positive. On this occasion, I would also like to tell you that I, together with the countries – as set out in the Article 15a agreement – will evaluate all measures to reduce costs of €300 million after two years, and on 28 March we will be voting for this agreement. These will be discussed at the meeting of the competent Federal Health Commission on June. – This allows you to see that significant preparatory work is already beginning for the next financial compensation. In the field of public health, I would like to draw your attention to a number of measures in the major tasks of prevention, all of which you have also referred to: The ongoing children's vaccination programme, which has already been mentioned today, is being extended to include vaccination against rotaviren, because we can eventually achieve an immediate epidemiological effect there. We currently count about 9 100 stationary stays due to enteritis, i.e. intestinal infections in infants, which in addition to the suffering for the little ones and the uncertainty and anxiety of the parents also cause costs of about 17.5 million € – the outpatient treatment cases are not included here. I think that's a big step in the right direction. It is important to me that we also increase our efforts in the area of sexually transmitted diseases. It is the statistics that indicate that in the next few years we will have to expect massive increases in the number of people concerned. This enormously important task, for example, also through the AIDS aid, which has made an indispensable contribution to these issues over the past few years, we can support with additional resources of 3 percent – the same applies also to drug institutions in accordance with the Drug Law. But let me draw attention to an activity also to my predecessor: It has set essential standards in the field of health prevention by reorientation of precautionary investigations and the introduction of age-specific health passports. I want to continue these measures, and to put additional emphasis on school health in particular. The “Healthy School” project, which has already been lifted from baptism and is organised together with the Ministry of Education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I also think it is good for us that the federal government of course takes over financing obligations when it comes to very rare diseases that fall far beyond the regular health effort. Let me, as an example, cite metabolic diseases such as the mucoviscosis, where there are very few cases of disease in Austria, but also in Europe, which, however, cause human suffering for all concerned and cause enormous costs. We are therefore currently building an efficient newborn screening in Austria in order to be well equipped for prevention, and we are also supporting those affected by these rare diseases with appropriate financing structures. The budget chapter 19 provides for expenditure of €5.9 billion in 2007 in the area of family and youth. Most of them, i.e. €5.5 billion, are managed through the family compensation fund, through which, among other things, the payment of family allowances, the childcare allowance, the financing of school-free trips and school-books and payments of maintenance advances are carried out. The remaining funds are available for the Ministry's family and youth policies. The 2008 budget already provides for increased expenditure on the planned flexibilisation of child care and the increase of the amount of earnings. For the financial security of the families, we will aim to increase the family allowance for the third child to 35 € per month and every other child to 50 € per month and implement it. And I think, in addition to the other family-political regulations, that is also an essential signal towards family and children in this country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, we will also force – and this is an essential factor in addition to funding – the strengthening of the educational power of the family, strengthening parental education as a primary prevention of educational difficulties and violence in education. The amount of funding was increased to €1.3 million compared to the 2006 Federal estimates, which included €1.1 million. The development of family and parent-child centres has also been considered within the framework of the budgetary measures, and I think that a very essential factor is being launched here that, in addition to financial support, a yes to the family is also put in the emotional field, at this level. I also believe that prevention of alcohol, tobacco and drug use has been considered in this budget in a number of activities and campaigns and, above all, violence in the media has been taken into account in the development of the Federal Bureau for Positive Predicate of Computer and Console games. The strengthening of young people's participation is an issue that is a cross-sectional issue that we will address here – together with the High House, but also together with the Ministry of Education and other structures – and we will take first steps here in the coming weeks and months. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34392	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34414	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If one digs through the 19 budget chapter, one notices that youth promotion takes a missing small part, so small that it can hardly be presented graphically. In addition to budget items, the “Youth Funding” bar is hardly visible with a free eye, with family support and so on. This, of course, has its reasons because these are mass transfers. Nevertheless, we should not lose sight of youth promotion, because youth organisations are doing great work – most of them, not all; I am going to do it very much. As representatives of interests, they have made it hard to draw attention to the situation of children and young people, to the rights of children and young people, and also to constitutional anchoring. Within their mother organizations, they also carry out an indispensable lobbying work for the young generation and offer countless opportunities for meaningful leisure work. Especially at a time when children and young people are exposed to so many dangers and temptations, this is of invaluable value. These organisations, especially their roofing organisation, the Federal Youth Office, cannot be entirely satisfied with the present draft budget, although the funds have also been slightly increased. We have been confronted in the past with the practice that more and more organisations have benefited from funding, but the total amount of funding has not been increased, and there have not even been inflation adjustments in the past, so that we actually had to talk about net reductions. In view of this fact, we have agreed in the Government Convention to redesign the Federal Youth Fund. The key points here are the security of life and the security of planning of youth organisations. The criteria for support are to be harmonised and made transparent. The accounting arrangements are to be simplified so that not, as it were, distrust costs can be financed, but the funds can really flow into the core tasks. It must be said that the current budget is still based on the old legislative situation, which also shows the need for reform. That is why I have already asked several times to enter into negotiations on a new legal basis – and I am pleased that you, Mrs Kdolsky, now obviously comply with it. You have planned to receive a delegation from youth representatives tomorrow, and I hope and I am confident that you will take the concerns of youth organisations seriously and that I will no longer have the opportunity to disrupt the grand coalition harmony by my criticism. On the current occasion, however, I would like to say that it is absolutely essential to consider the redesign of the Federal Youth Promotion Act, as well as the application of the existing commitment to the democratic Republic of Austria and the values of freedom, human rights and democracy. One would not have thought that it was necessary to put that out of doubt somehow, but unfortunately this has shown itself in connection with the Ring of Liberal Youth. The statements that have been made here are truly scandalous, and it is also scandalous that members of this House are also commenting positively. I can therefore recover a lot from the Greens' request, but perhaps we will also be able to expand it a little, because it is also striking that other organisations in this area have also been particularly conspicuous. So it would be a good sign of this House if there might even be a four-party request. I think the democratic values are the highest good we have to represent here, and I really hope for your understanding and your help.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34478	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34500	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In contrast to Mrs. Jenewein, I do not expect a cookbook from you, because I already have enough of them, and if I do not know a recipe, I can still look into the Internet. I do not see this as your job as a minister, but I see your task as a health minister for all people in Austria, regardless of the reason for their being ill, whether they are disabled, whether they are disabled, whether they are sensibly disabled, or whether they may have nothing at all and feel squeaky, but still do. in the future, they should want to rely on a system that then is really present. - That's my great wish. In order to fill this wish, Mrs. Kdolsky, with content, I have already told you – and that is no longer new to you – what needs to be done in order to be able to offer this security really and especially to make it useful for people. One of these areas, Mrs Minister, is the same right to rehabilitation. You know that it is still very much dependent on the cause of which rehabilitation measure is to what extent – or not. Those who have no right to rehabilitation at all are so-called civilian disabled people. We have not had a job accident, because we would have a rehabilitation, but we are disabled from home. Nevertheless, Mrs Minister, it is important for us to be able to maintain at least the standard we have and not to fall back, for example, in the area of mobility or the like. There are no possibilities in Austria. Mrs. Minister, you can ask yourself: There is no rehabilitation today for someone with a civilian disability. This right to equal rehabilitation for all we call for is a very old right, and it should finally be implemented within the meaning of the Equality Act, so that for these groups of persons, the highest level of rehabilitation should also be accessible to them – and not somewhere on the lower track. This is still missing, and I expect that at least in the next two years there will be a significant progress in order to get something from nothing at least. - That's one. Mrs Kdolsky, the second area which is becoming worse for those affected, is the so-called aid provision. As you know, the self-cost contributions for aids are constantly being pushed up. On the other hand, important tools are removed from the so-called aid catalogue or not included in it at all, with the result that you have to pay for it yourself if you need it – provided that you can afford it. Whoever can't afford it, he just had bad luck. Mrs. Minister, this is so far from now that, for example, people with cross-sectional paralysis, who need appropriate tools to empty the bladder, have to buy these so-called tubes themselves. If someone can't afford this, he'll have a urinary tract infection and probably be in the hospital for two months. – This can even lead to death. Something has to be done, Mrs. Minister! It can't be that these costs are always only paid to those affected! In the next area I would like to address, Mrs Minister, you also have something to say, and above all you have to act there: It is about barrier-free health facilities and health services at all levels. They have written that most of them are the countries responsible, or the main association or anyone. That may be true, Mrs Minister, but you're still on the balance, because when it comes to money, you still have a weighty word to say, who gets something, and then you can also set conditions. The condition that there should be barrier-free health facilities, Mrs Minister, would not be a social act, but that is simply a necessity because Also, mobility-affected people have the right to free choice of doctor, which we do not de facto now. Because I can't choose which dentist I go to, but I have to choose my entire medical care according to the criterion where I can enter at all – and not just me, but so we all have people with disabilities. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mrs Minister, I expect you to make offers in the interests of those with disabilities and those with disabilities who are equivalent and as low as those who, of course, have to take advantage of the people who are not disabled. Mrs Minister, what I wanted to say is: This – I say now – idea – I am not allowed to say the term that comes into my mind, because otherwise I get a call for order – that now one knocks out whether people with non-Austrian citizenship are taking more or more out of the social system, I think is extremely dangerous, because: Where does that start, and where does it stop? It has always started with people whose mother tongue, for example, is not German. At least it is for all those who have no longer thrown away the necessary “benefits ” from the economy. If one continues to follow this “idea, ” that could go back in that direction, and that must no longer happen. We all know the consequences of that time, and they must not repeat themselves. That is why I would like to ask you, Mrs. Kdolsky, to offer you a health system for all those who can be controlled and in whom, regardless of their mother tongue, origin or social status, an equivalent offer is available, so that we do not continue to have a two-class medicine, which we unfortunately already have. We need to reduce this two-class medicine again and offer a health system that is equivalent to everyone and brings us something and does not harm us all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34615	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34636	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! At the beginning, I would like to point out some of the things that have already happened in the past: the new precautionary examination, which has already been addressed by the Federal Minister of Health – free health checks are offered for all generations –; the broad campaign for health promotion, which I would like to address briefly in my speech; the obligation of the chief physician – the principle that the prescription travels and not the patient –; the health of children and the provision of patients. – It’s just a short look. The Austrians live more and more health-conscious and healthy. You have to say that there is also a lot of personal responsibility. The government programme sets out prevention and health promotion, and it is made clear that it reaches people in their worlds of life, in other words in work, kindergarten, school and in particular – I would like to stress this – in the communities. I think that there are still strong restructurings on us too. We already experience that Communities are very strongly involved in health care – with us in Tyrol with the social and health benefits, which already have a lot to do with prevention and health promotion. It can be formulated in this way: Health takes place where we live. The Austrian population is getting older and older – we know that – and the care and care requirements become more quality conscious. It is also the great challenge in this area to offer health promotion and prevention so specifically to individuals and families that care needs can be avoided as much as possible. In my opinion, prevention and preventive measures are also the subject of: Who's taking part? Who does not take part in this? There is also the subject of single-parents relevant. Especially when looking at women's health, it is obvious that women often do not take the time to take precautions, but see that the family consumes these things. The question is how we bring people to health care and health promotion. Furthermore, gender medicine, especially in the pharmaceutical field: When you look at statistics, you can see that there is a strong gender problem in psychopharmaka. This is the third most commonly prescribed drug in women and is not prescribed so often in men. It would also be important to examine where and how these drugs are used. I would also like to thank our Minister, who is very committed to health and can also contribute a lot of expertise, and wish her a lot of elan and a lot of strength for the coming time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34685	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34706	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I am sorry: In five minutes, even if you want to, you cannot comment on family policy and health policy. That's impossible. You have an advantage over me, at least theoretically. So I am saving myself the subject of health now, although it would appeal to me because our offer is on and on its own: They have our willingness to cooperate, even with regard to the certainly not easy issue of the merger of cash registers. However, I ask you not to force this under the primacy, the local health phone must be assembled, because: The main issue was that we finally end up with the professional cash registers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] – Yes, I know, colleague Neugebauer. I think that would be very reasonable to negotiate. This cannot go from today to tomorrow anyway, but I believe that we are no longer going into health policy if we continue to build this thought of the past, that everyone is somehow maintaining his black, red or otherwise like knitted unity as a “territorium” for the future. – That’s just a note. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: It is a question of how responsibility...!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say something about two parties. – The one is the BZÖ: Mr Darmann – I do not know why – felt obliged to explain on this item on the agenda what was already introduced by the BZÖ yesterday, namely a comprehensive professional ban on sexual offenders, once again. I'm just saying quite clearly: It is a very difficult and highly sensitive matter. You shouldn't play with that publicly. – Just the BZÖ has done this: no grace for child abuse! – That was the slogan with which the BZÖ took place during the last elections. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Not just us, too!]] – You like that too? Good, Dr. Schüssel. I would have expected you to have something more different. Now we read in the newspapers that at the time the BZÖ publicly presented this campaign, the BZÖ is a person as a moderator – still on a youth tour! – has been employed, which is obviously investigated for multiple sexual offences. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Watch out!]] That's what I'm asking myself: In whom is the sensitivity available? The BZÖ and you, Mr Westenthaler, knew very well at the time how sensitive matter is! But the man who did not know – at least Mr. Westenthaler said – whether the accusations were actually happening or not was further employed. Of course he was further employed, otherwise there would have been a sight! They have not at all been concerned with the matter, but only with avoiding attention. And that, Mr. Westenthaler, is really objectionable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think the matter would require a lot of intense debate, but one thing is quite clear: As you have demanded, as a comprehensive and effective ban on sexual offenders, it is certainly unconstitutional. We cannot exclude anyone, no matter who it is – and we have to think something better, Mr Westenthaler – from having access to professional activity, even if Mr Schüsel thinks it is a super idea. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: With children! With young people! That's the point!]] No, a comprehensive and effective ban on the profession called for yesterday by the BZÖ, and so it was presented! And that's where I say: No, it can't be! If you, Dr. Schüssel, can represent legal, how and under what conditions people who have been sentenced as sexual offenders can prevent them from having professional contact with children and young people, then you know better, then do easier, then I would ask for these proposals. I am just telling you that we will probably have to think much more and better about sexual offenders than this cheap, populist demand, which is still revealed by the way in which it was presented, by whom it was presented, and how it is now coming back into the current political debate. The occasion is embarrassing enough for the one who is now trying to re-ignite this debate. One last word: Mr Graf and colleagues from the FPÖ, when our colleague Barbara Zwerschitztenden (and this, of course, concerns the Federal Minister) made a request to review the funding for the RFJ, you have called in between: Miscarriage! You mentioned me in a debate before, and that is quite legitimate, with the suspicion that I would anyway not pay attention to everything that smells of FPÖ. I say one to you, Mr Graf: I think – perhaps too little – that I can make a difference between positions in which it is about to render racist, xenophobic, neonazist statements – and that is not all the liberals, that is also known to me – and positions where this happens. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not all greens do either!]] And I also tell you the following: When a member of the Liberals in Tyrol puddles through the Innsbruck streets and gives “Heil, Hitler!” and other calls of himself and therefore an advertisement is launched because of national socialist re-activities, I cry fire as well. It can't be that you still cover this attitude and say: That is family-disability, if you go against it! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: That is what you say to Mr Pilz, who also has data protection law...!]] – Family Disability? I am sorry, Mr Missethon, for I am not being irritated by such statements. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: This is also family terrorism, Mr. Cot.]] If in Upper Austria officials of the RFJ at the same time at the Bund You, Mr Missethon, are active in the free movement of young people and you want to make the wall as well, obviously, if, at the same time, officials of the RFJ in Vienna have been noticed by other organizations, at the same time as the order of neo-Nazi literature for neo-Nazi publishing houses, I say that I would like to be the representative of the Greens – and I am very grateful to the colleague Zwerschitz – of you, Mrs Bundesminister, only one: [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Who says that? Where did you get this?]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: That's wrong!]] I would like to avoid the loss of a euro or a cent of funding for any kind of neo-Nazi activity. I certainly don't want to.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34912	Next, Mr Ehmann. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34934	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Undisputed in this debate on health is that in Austria we have one of the best health systems worldwide, whose preservation should be important to us – and I think I can speak for the whole house. However, a significant part of this funding is to support the cost of drugs. In support of drug costs, there was a funding contribution in the 2003 pharmaceutical package, unfortunately with 31. In December 2006, it expired and has currently been removed. § 609 Abs. ASVG 19 that the companies entitled to sell in the pharmaceutical industry from 2004 to 2006, i.e. three years, have to pay a certain security contribution. The collection is carried out via the main association. That is the legal basis in force. But unfortunately there are still around € 48.4 million. In the first year about two thirds were paid, in the second year only more than one third and in the third year only more than one quarter. That can't be. The general situation of the cash registers is well known. I therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, to exert massive pressure to get this money, or to use a replacement solution so that we can make an additional contribution to the financing of our health system! – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34967	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e34990	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall refer to a number of points which are not very relevant to the budget, but which are very controversial and which have already been discussed in this House today. On the one hand, I would like to address one of my previous speakers, Mrs Rosenkranz, who, in her criticism of the attempts of some in the government parties, especially in the EIA, also took new forms of life, took new forms of family seriously and, on the other hand, put forward some new legislation necessary for these forms of life, which would be due to a “bourgeois crisis” and would look for new forms of life for these people, including Minister Kdolsky. I do not know where, in what environment the woman Rosenkranz is moving, but probably she does not have to look for these new forms of life in her environment. They are everywhere; you just have to open your eyes a little. So it's not about your own search. As Mrs Rosenkranz mentioned that the traditional family was a “anthropological success model”, I would like to ask what she understands as a success model, especially if she stressed that a man and a woman of love enter a marriage. This model has been available in this form for all people for a maximum of 180 years. Previously, this was especially true for the wealthy – simple maids and servants, for example, were not allowed to marry, neither for love nor for other reasons. At the time of the monarchy there was this statement: Do, felix Austria, nube! – They did not marry out of love, but because the state council wanted it that way, and because it was a way of bringing together other countries, so to speak, rather than military means. So with regard to the “anthropological success model” of traditional marriage and family, I already have my doubts as to whether this is actually to be regarded as such. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point was that Mrs Rosenkranz – as well as others – has great fears that Austria will die and that there will be no Austrians. Throughout the centuries, the whole of Austria and the people who live here have been created by immigration and emigration and immigration – and so is today. We're not dying out. There are probably people in this country who have children and want to have them. But to take care that one should have children and must be a pension insurance rather than because man or woman wants to have a child, I think this is the wrong approach. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must already see that those children who are not willing because, for example, the mother was still very young, the girl may have become pregnant at 15 or 16 or the woman was already older and pregnant without wanting to, these children often have quite difficult life, and there would certainly be the model of prevention on sick leave something that would be enforceable that woman and man actually only have the children they really want. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ]] [[New condolences with the greens.]] So children only as pension insurance, we say no! One last point: Today in the morning I looked at the newspaper “Austria” and was quite amazed, Mrs. Minister: “Light marriage for Homopaare is coming”. – I thought I was, but that went fast. [[Abg. Murauer: That must be a mistake!]] Obviously, then, it was actually a mistake. What Minister Berger and Kdolsky presented today were working groups to decide on by the Council of Ministers. Well, there have already been many working groups in this Republic and also in the ÖVP. I wish the patchwork families, but also the lesbian and gay couples in this country, that these working groups actually produce something material – and it is not like three years ago when the ÖVP working group developed a mini-Community package that has never seen the light of the National Council. I also hope that those in the ÖVP like Mr. National Council President Spindelegger, Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel and also the social spokesperson Amon, who vehemently oppose the legal equality of same-sex couples, in these working groups... – I have always heard this from you. [[Abg. Amon: No, no!]] [[Abg. Amon: No, that's where you're quoting me wrong! I said...!]] Then explain to me, and explain that you are very likely to be a legal equality between lesbians and gays! If that is the case, then I hope that laws will actually come out of these working groups, which the lesbians and gays can enjoy in this country and where they do not have to say again, it has been an attempt, but it has become nothing out of it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35093	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35115	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the current presentation of the double budget, the current Federal Government is also contributing to positive developments in family policy. The financial framework for a future-oriented and successful family policy is also poured into budget figures. Mrs Barbara Rosenkranz, if you doubt the seriousness of our Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, I can only say one thing: I believe in her strength, I believe in her strength, and I believe in her intelligence when I see our Mrs. Federal Minister's approach to the work of shaping family and health policy. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Perhaps one more to Mrs. Barbara RosenkranzAn old saying says: Whoever regrets forever must die once! – I hope that this is not the case, and I can only appeal: Not pity, but give a positive impression! The family is worth it! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, our access to family and family policy is not to think about how to make abortions even more unbureaucratic, even cheaper and faster, but the Austrian People's Party is a family party – and we have other ideas and other ways to strengthen the family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to raise the following points here, because in this context we often feel very sorry: I founded a family with my wife about 32 years ago and, in the meantime, I have three adult children aged 16 to 26. The financial equipment was not the best at the time, I can remember, but I had the courage to start a family with my wife, and I was able to do so. I also have several other difficult situations mastered and very proud of it and very happy about it. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] In conclusion: Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, I am very glad that we have you, as a minister, who goes a good way and is therefore also there for our families in our country. Thank you and all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35190	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35211	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps one or two words on the term family, which is stressed here. I don't think we should all forget one thing: It is true that these social forms of life are over the decades, over the centuries in history – look at it! – have just changed. And so it is quite normal today that divorces also occur in rural families. It is very difficult to deal with this, there are just as many normal problems that all have. So you should open your eyes, because the world has also changed in the rural area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would now like to focus on one area, namely the health chapter, in my comments. Approximately 7.2 percent of this budget covers veterinary, food safety and genetic engineering aspects. Mrs. Federal Minister, you are also responsible for the Agency for Health and Food Safety. We have been talking intensively in this House over the years about the tasks of food control, the security of healthy food, the perception of control in all areas, from the feed sector to pesticides investigations to disease control. And one thing you have to say is that the funds from your resort and from the agricultural resort have reached a low level with € 54.5 million in 2007. This started with the outlay in 2002; there was a budget path, which has just been reduced to € 54.5 million. At the same time, however, the tasks have become no less, but more. And that's the challenge we're facing now. The distribution has changed slightly: In the future, they have 60 percent of the load to bear and the agricultural resort only more than 40 percent. I have already asked you in the Committee whether this involves additional competences. That is obviously not the case. It would have been to be expected, however, that there would also be legal changes. Interestingly, a budget increase to € 58 million in 2008 is expected, which is a significant increase, at least in comparison with the approach. Clearly, then, the need to make available the appropriate resources is recognized. But, as has been said, in parallel – and we have already discussed this in the budget accompanying legislation – you have made appropriate changes in the field of food and consumer protection law. We have talked about this together, and you have tried to present me, but I have to say that I am a bit surprised because I still cannot understand who should pay these additional fees. According to the information you have given me, that is to be the food trade, the gastronomy and the direct marketers. At the same time, I have received a reply from your place of business, which means that there will be no additional burden on primary producers. I have the answer here. So for me, on the one hand, the question is: Who will really pay it now? I wanted to know who will have to pay additional fees from farmers in the future. On the other hand, it is not clear to me where the additional revenue to be generated from these fees is actually entered in the budget. Mrs. Federal Minister, I really have to tell you, this is not understandable, and you also promised me that I would get a calculation from your place of business – I have not been able to get it to this day. Perhaps you could try to get this so I can understand where the fee of €160 is derived. I would like to address a point which is included in this budget chapter, namely animal welfare in school and also the support of the European networking of animal welfare organisations. We welcome this because we also believe that animal welfare is a European task. One aspect that is very important is the whole area of animal transport. From our point of view, there are still massive control deficits across Europe. It would also be in the interests of consumers and farmers if transport times were consistently reduced in the area of animal transport if standards were increased, because this would also strengthen the regional structure of food supply. I would also like to lose a word on the non-genotechnic food. You have also given some answers. However, I believe that this is a point that we need to continue to strengthen. We now have many products in Austria, which are also labeled as genetic engineering-free. This sector is growing. Austria is very active in Europe. It is important to create an information campaign and at the same time to carry out the necessary risk research. That is why my recent appeal to you, Mrs Federal Minister, is absolutely against import bans for genetic engineering constructions, specifically for the MON 863 maize, and at the same time for the two rape varieties that are in the pipeline. Healthy foods are the best medicine, ladies and gentlemen. For the sake of precautionary policy, these measures would be a command of the hour. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35291	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35312	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Praßl, I think we already agree that abortion is not a matter of itself. It is, however, the fact that women in Austria find very different conditions when they make this decision for personal reasons, and it is still not possible in every federal state in every public hospital to have a stop, although I do not wish to require doctors to do so, but the possibility should be given. The costs for this are also very different. The social situation of women is not the same either. One should therefore focus on this over and over again. But basically: You can't shake at the abortion! I think we all agree in that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Second thought, Mr Lunacek: I'm very confident. We have a dedicated family minister, we have a Social Democratic Minister of Justice, and they will not just sit down and set up working groups with nothing going on. Both, I think, are guaranteers that, for example, the registered partnership is not as far away as it once was. So I am very confident about this too. At FLAF – two minutes speaking time are anyway too short – only two thoughts. First thought: great challenge as regards financing in the future, that is not a question. There are certainly new models, perhaps also value-added models to be remembered. Just one example of the wrong situation, which also arises in the FLAF, when we think of those who pay, and of those who get something out: The employees pay 93 percent and receive only 84 percent. Farmers, for example, receive eight times the benefit; they get it out without having to pay so much. We all have to think about it together, not a question. Finally: very successful today's daughter's day, which took place throughout Austria; for the first time also in Parliament, but unfortunately not in one ministry, in all the others already – Mrs. Minister, why not in the family ministry?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35355	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 6 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35376	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Appreciate Mrs Minister! High house! I would like to take a brief look at this afternoon when I observed Madam President Glawischnig with her child in the cafeteria. That was a very nice, very harmonious picture. I was very pleased that there are also greens who know what mother's happiness is. [[Calls to the Greens.]] It was precisely with this picture that I thought about the recent demands of Mrs Glawischnig, who, without having been asked to do so, suddenly asked for abortion on a health certificate. That doesn't fit with today's picture at all, it's kind of illogical. Madam President, it is necessary to: Unfortunately, she's not in the hall – really tell me: Getting a child is not a disease! [[Complementary with FPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The abortion must be the last of all. We also need to really think about creating reasonable consultation opportunities for women, not just putting this opportunity into the room, that it... – [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Every woman will be advised!]] This is a big mistake, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You've probably never been to a consultation before!]] – You do not know where I was, Mrs Colleague, we are happy to talk about it personally. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The fact is: One of the most dangerous places in this world is the womb. In Austria, only a 60 percent chance of survival is given. There are about 50,000 to 60 000 abortions per year in Austria – the dark figure is not quite known. 50,000 to 60 000 abortions per year in Austria! As early as the introduction of the time limit solution in the Criminal Code 1975, Mrs. Colleague, Bruno Kreisky raised the demand – perhaps familiar It is still this requirement – to create accompanying framework conditions, but this has not been implemented to this day. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: There are!]] There is no adequate information for women who need help in a often unwanted pregnancy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: I don't know!]] To date, it is only doctors who are specialised in abortion that carry out the consultations – and it cannot be. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Doctors who have an economic interest in performing abortions cannot advise women! That must be the wrong way. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The doctors make an oath!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: That's incredible!]] Another thought that is very interesting: The Greens are very committed to all possible areas or are committed to promoting themselves: for animal protection, for climate protection. But what they really use for, these are the homosexuals and the asylumists, that is, marginal groups of this society. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lunacek.]] I just hope that the Greens too will soon become a marginal group in this society. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The FPÖ is also a margin group!]] However, they of the Greens are not committed to the most important task of politicians, namely for the families, for our future – you forget, dear rulers! But this is also the task of policy to give a future and create a positive mood. We liberals do not assume that Mrs. Rosary or other liberals want to draw a negative scenario. Of course, we want to point out the dangers, but a positive development. What you offer here is a really sad spectacle and has nothing to do with the fact that we, as politicians, take responsibility for this Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But then do not close your eyes to reality! Don't close your eyes!]] Another thought, Mr Pirklhuber. Two days ago, we got together to stand for the seals babies. We all supported the request, which is good. For your reasons, I quote: “Since the resumption of the seal hunt in 1996, three million saddle seals have been killed in Canada alone. 95 percent of these seals are not yet three months old.” This is what I'm going to face: Since the revision of the Criminal Code 1975, about 1 million unborn children have been killed in Austria. 95 percent of these embryos were still not three months old. A further reason for your request: ‘In view of the high number of seals killed each year, the preservation of the population may be at risk in the long term.’ This is what I'm going to face: In view of the high number of embryos killed each year, We do not guarantee the preservation of our domestic population. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is crazy!]] So you should really look where you put your focus on what you put on weight. I believe that we in the House in the near future need to talk about abortion and real family policy – and not what you are doing here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] Thank God there is the Freedom Party, which is a guarantee for the families and for the future of this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35575	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35596	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, a statement on the colleague Heinisch-Hosek: You want to be a good social politicist, then stop provoking cheap envy complexes! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What am I doing?]] Farmers pay as much as any other 7.5 percent health insurance contribution, the pensioners 4.85 percent KV contribution. We have self retention in the form of cost shares. We have included all the standards and rules in our system. And if you're perhaps giving us a higher government grant here today, remember that we have a strong structural process that we should jointly finance. They will not want farmers to end up in poverty. That can't be your policy! Take an example of the minister who makes a great policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: FLAF!]] I think the federal estimate is really balanced. I am particularly pleased that the number of those who advocate this health policy, which is the continuation of the last few years, has increased. I am pleased and also gives me courage and hope that we can continue the success path of recent years. Mrs. Minister, you said in your opinion that the system of course has a wide variety of financing – that is true, it is all very complex, it is very complicated. But I think that health and social policy cannot only be done with words – no, it needs a comprehensive responsibility! And there's a question of personal responsibility. I do not think anything about it, if – by any group – the increase in contribution rates is dramatised by 0.15 percent today. Think about it: This may be a great deal for the individual, but in total it is only €150 million for the financing of a very complex system, which all citizens, without regard to the person, his social stratification, his origin – whatever! – then it benefits when it comes to a life crisis, for example by illness, by accident or by other fates. Who else has that? - We got it. Let's be proud! Let us look forward to this and continue to develop it fairly! I think we also need comprehensive solidarity. That also meant my consideration of the entrance to you. I didn't mean to hurt you, but I have to say that clearly. I also think that we need a very clear orientation here – even today the term “self retention” has already fallen: You can't see that as a penalty. I beg you! That's part of the funding. That is why I am also very pleased, Minister Kdolsky, that you have the courage to speak, at last, of harmonising collective social security schemes – not as a programme from now on, but as a visionary project. We will, of course, be happy to support you, as in your policy as a whole, because you have very good approaches to a reasonable development.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35652	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35674	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Health policy is one of several examples to show the change of course in Austria: from the previous burdens to redundancies by the Social Democratic Government. Therefore, we are pleased that the recipe fee will be covered with 2 per cent of the income per month from next year onwards. If there are still problems in technical implementation, there will be opportunities to comply with this implementation at the end of the discussion. I also very much hope that, at the end of the day, the loss of revenue, as well as the savings required, will not have to pay the insured even by means of reductions in performance. The increase in contributions has already been mentioned: The fact that this is only the second best solution for us has been documented. We would undoubtedly have found it fairer to increase the maximum contribution base, but unfortunately this was not possible with the government partner. We could not get any information on the savings in the Committee. I do not hope that one assumes that the pooling of the cash can bring these savings, because even when combined, the essential costs – medical remedies, drug costs at a value of 30 percent each – do not decrease. 3 per cent of administrative costs will hardly be able to bring any more significant amounts of savings. We would also be able to take account of regional needs. We would also probably “send” qualified jobs to Vienna and further centralise procurement, which would in the end also mean further weakening rural areas. That is why we are not going to pursue this issue for the above reasons – nor is it because the Government Convention does not provide this as a requirement. Therefore, the Social Democrats will certainly be very committed to reducing the amount of restraint that there can be solidarity in funding the health system and that there is a better supply. I think that this double budget is making good contributions in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35710	Next speaker is Mrs Tamandl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35731	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kaipel, we, of course, were not able to raise the maximum contribution base. We've been talking about tax relief since Tuesday. You may think that we are talking about tax relief, about a discharge of the middle class while at the same time withdrawing it. or increasing the maximum contribution base?- Oh, my God! We'd just cut the middle class out even more. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, ……]] Some colleagues from the BZÖ, our former government partner, have expressed themselves today rather negatively or rather strangely to child care and to the changes in child care. As of March 2007, there are 163,000 children’s benefits. Of these there are 6 000 males, which is 3.5 percent. That was just 3 percent. We note that there is a rather slight rise, but still a rise. I think we are also going here with the change, with the flexibilization of child care money the right way that the cover is also possible for 18 months and not only for 36 months with 436 €. I believe that we have taken a step forward with the increase of the earner's limit. The colleagues from the BZÖ know exactly – we have jointly introduced the childcare allowance –: Before that de facto did not work because it was only possible to earn up to the level of low-capacity. I think child care money in general is a success model. We should keep in mind when we formulate our entire demands for the change and for the improvement and renewal of the childcare allowance, that the child is at the heart of the child! We from the ÖVP support this because we are the family party. We have shown it and we will continue to show it when we make a tax reform as we relieve the families of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35786	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35807	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! To the family chapter: Everyone lives in a family association that is often very different. Everyone grew up in a family – only in the definition do the spirits separate. We Socialists and Socialists understand the equal rights, responsibility and solidarity of people with or without children. I think it's the quality in the end. It is about the quality of living together, as is the overall aspect of family policy. I just need to explain what “real” and“ false” family policy is. This is also a contribution justice, as Mr Heinisch has already mentioned. If Mr Donabauer has said that it is about harmonizing benefits, it is also about a contribution right, above all as far as FLAF is concerned, which is relatively empty and erased. One point that is very essential to me, ladies and gentlemen, is the quality requirement for childcare, especially in the childcare facilities. I think that this quality claim cannot be made high enough. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about about about 1,317 million children living in Austria, people under 14 years of age. They have the right to quality, they have the right to grant and to promote. I think that a qualitative and supportive family policy creates for families those spaces they need to shape their lives as they would like to. Mr Klement, last but not least: In the resolution of the deadlines, the spirits may also separate here, but: What does not come into question for us is criminalization, and therefore women are forced back into illegality and into the underground, causing a lot of suffering again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35852	Next, Mr Dr. Eder. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35874	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We hear this very often here from this place and, as I mean, right: Our health system, I believe, is one of the best in the world, both in terms of the intensity of supply and in terms of quality of supply. The present health budget allows for further implementation of the health reform with the aim of improving efficiency and financing priority programmes. There must be a focus on prevention, in its whole range. More than 17 million € are available in two years. Hippocrates already said: To give a person the right measure of food and exercise is the safe way to health. Thousands of general physicians are already working in this field here in Austria. Besides the hardware, you also need the software. The “precautionary investigation new”, whose acceptance or frequency, however, we must increase – we know! –, it's part of that too. However, the paradigm shift from screening research to the more lifestyle-oriented method in our minds has not yet been fully implemented – in which the patients or a little of the doctors. In the field of health promotion, particular attention will have to be paid to the gender aspect of occupational health promotion. The link between the “preservation investigation new” and the occupational health promotion is a good idea in the room and for discussion. The future specialist in general medicine – and I hope we will have it – as a personalised seam and lathe in the service of the patient in an integrated health system would be an important goal. This budget provides security to continue and deepen important preventive measures. Thank you very much to the negotiators! Finally, it must be said: A solid budget for a sound health policy – this is what the Austrian People's Party stands for and this coalition also stands for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35920	Mr Spindelberger came next to speak for 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35941	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Although there has been a change of course for me in relation to the health policy of recent years, I must say immediately that I do not agree with everything. But there are many positive approaches. For example, if for health care measures proud 8 percent, i.e. € 65.5 million more are spent, this is a step in the right direction for me. As Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky has already mentioned, prevention and health promotion as the fourth pillar in the health system will finally be anchored. It is equally important for me to anchor non-smokers protection and the national strategy for the fight against addiction. Furthermore – and this is good too – there is a massive reduction in recipe fees to a maximum of 2% of income. That is why it really is precisely those who need it, namely the chronically ill people. I mentioned earlier that I do not agree with everything. I am concerned that a number of measures are planned, particularly in the framework of the health reform, which do not have a budget relevance to the extent, but apparently prevent social health insurance funds from receiving the financial resources they need that are urgently needed. These measures also include, I say, your horse, Mrs. Federal Minister, the integrated care of the medical and hospital-ambulatory sectors, but also the promotion of the daily clinic facilities. Who tells us that these achievements are really cheaper in the established, extra-mural area? This is once again just a shift in the costs from hospital holders to health insurance. Mr Donabauer said: Dramatizes not always this 0.15 percent increase in contribution! I must mention, however, that this is the third increase in contributions within a very short time. If we are still thinking about administrative savings, about performance law, but at the same time at the same time at the expense of the cash registers, that is what I believe is the wrong budgetary approach in this area. I think it would be more useful to get together and talk about other distribution policies, such as raising the maximum contribution base, but also – why not? – to consider the reserves of official insurance, because there is enough money that can be used for this system.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e35981	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36002	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the debate by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein. I was quite surprised at the fact that a young woman spoke and strongly criticised the fact that this distribution action has come about condoms. This is an extremely important measure, in the sense of prevention and, above all, health care, which Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky has taken. Actually, you should read an article from the “Small Newspaper. ” It is written that, of course, the Federal Minister is advocating for her policy, but above all at the same time, attention has been paid to the fight against AIDS and also to cancer – one can add that now, for example, when we think of HPV viruses – which must first be surpassed in relation to the short appearance of effectiveness. Of course, this also created a awareness of the problem with regard to all sexually transmitted diseases, which are on the rise. Dear Mrs. Kdolsky, this really has to be done by someone to focus this public attention on a subject that is not exactly an issue that we deal with every day. I also wanted to comment briefly on the hospital hospitals. I think it is very important that the Federal Minister says that the ambulatory sector should be re-thinked with new cooperation models and that a division of work between the extra-mural and intra-mural areas, between the hospital and the established doctors, is really of utmost importance, especially since one knows that the hospitals are always needed when no established doctor is to be reached: on weekends or at night. However, it must not be like – as is currently often practiced – that completely unreflected hospitals are being visited. This is not in the sense of the patients who then have to be referred back to the family doctor for further treatment. In that sense, I believe that our Federal Minister thinks very modern and progressive, and, above all, as a health economy, recognises the high potential for savings and sets in motion an economic design of our health system, while at the same time also enhancing the quality standards for our patients.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36048	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36069	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, allow me to make a personal comment at the beginning: I do not know how my whole group and the other Members of my group think about it, but I have no problem if you distribute condoms and use them for one thing. I don't have a problem either if you're delivering a dance deposit in the sense of a good thing. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] The most important source of funding for family policy benefits is the family compensation fund. We also discussed this in committee. The development should, I believe, also be mentioned during the discussion today. We had a surplus of 3 billion schilling in 1999/2000. Today we owe €1.6 billion, so we have a deficit. By 2012 – if I have that right in mind – you have said that we will have €3.2 billion deficit or debt. When I recall that today's Minister of Finance Molterer said in 2000 that we want to make a policy without new debts, the truth is: For example, we now have more debt in this area. So, it hasn't succeeded in the last few years, but so to speak, with flying flags in the short run. The same applies to public debt. This should also be mentioned on the occasion because higher government debt also provides the scope for all future budgetary measures: 137 billion € public debt in 2000, now 166 billion. Policy has promised: without new debts. The exact opposite, however, has occurred. That is why I am saying this because, I believe, we need to clarify right now – and I want to do so – that we need to reject these beatification attempts, in particular those of the old government parties. So it's not that everything was good that was said over and over again. [[Abg. Sieber: It wasn't all bad either!]] It is a need for me to express it clearly once. Promise: less new debt – fact: new debts. You should hold that once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We cannot further undermine the family compensation fund, said Mrs. Ridi Steiblam. March in a press release. It is also admitted that we are in a situation that is not pleasing. One could sum this up with a sentence, and I want to do the same: According to the head, the cane and the grass, there is an empty box everywhere. – Good success in rehabilitating, Mrs. Family Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36121	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler. 2 minutes of self-elected speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36142	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In short, I would like to say something to Mrs Heinisch-Hosek and to Mr Klement: We support women in difficult situations in life, such as we did in Salzburg in the Kolpinghaus, through a mother-child facility, in order to prevent pre-gnancies. That's our approach. However, we do not want to go against existing legal provisions. - That's for clarification. I would like to draw your attention briefly to a very important issue or an important institution, i.e. the platform “to the contrary to violence in the family”. In order to be able to offer targeted violence prevention to those affected, there has been this facility for some 14 years. In this institution, the only Austrian network, 37 advisory bodies in the field of violence against children, violence against women, violence against older people and in and among young people are currently in focus. We find God in the present budget thanks again for funding: € 255 000 for regional projects, and for the effort – these are cross-sectional projects, coordination of regional prevention projects, networking meetings – the amount of € 189 000. For 2008, we find these amounts also, even slightly increased. I am very glad that our Finance Minister Willi Molterer and our family minister Andrea Kdolsky continue to make funds available to these institutions in the present double budget, and I am grateful for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36178	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. Also 2 minutes of welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36200	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! A prudent health policy is probably as necessary at Austrian level as it is at international level. That's why it's fine that we make €3.4 million available for WHO in our budget this year and € 3.9 million next year. The money is the good thing. The question of what it is used for is another important thing. I think that the whole area of reproductive and sexual health is a major challenge for us because the question of targeted family planning and the question of the prevention of HIV/AIDS is probably one of the challenges of the 21st century. ==References====External links== That is to say, it is also necessary for political interference in the use of the funds, because the World Bank, for example, has just removed this one track, where it promotes sexual and reproductive health. That's very unfortunate. Since real education, using condoms, empowering women, providing education are probably the recipes with which this can work well. When we talk about HIV/AIDS, the question of generics is not far. The provision of durable drugs, especially in third world countries, is also an important international challenge, where I think that we, as Austrian politicians, should represent a line in which it is clear that health as a good of all people is in any case more important than the issue of the protection of property rights and patent rights. A brief thought on a very important issue for me personally about reproductive and sexual health, namely the question of female genital mutilation, also an Austrian and international subject where there is much progress that is really remarkable. I would be very pleased if we managed to initiate something together with the Ministry of Health as an Austrian platform against female genital mutilation. We know from a 2005 medical staff survey that there is a great need for information. Perhaps we can help together to give information, to call on Courage, also to empower doctors and doctors, midwives and pediatricians and gynecologists to help save many girls here and also internationally this terrible human rights abuse. This is really very well invested money. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36236	Mr Einwallner is the next speaker. Also 2 minutes of welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36257	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This budget is the basis for a good youth policy over the next two years, and one has to hold it here. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Prehauser.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group: Quit your fairy tale of the youthfulity of the Greens! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Why? . You of the Greens are the only group here in the House, which does not make any Members under 30 years of age. [[Call the ÖVP: The old one looks out!]] That's the truth! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I conclude that you least trust the young people, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens – otherwise you would have to sit here! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits as well as calls to the ÖVP.]] But I know that youth has to do not only with young age, but also with young in thinking. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: That's the point!]] But I miss that with you too! This has to be held once. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] [[New call of the abg. May. Stoisits.]] However, I would also like to comment on a small part of the budget, which is too little attention to me, namely on student and apprentice free trips and on the school book action: € 750 000 million for free travel and € 200 million for the School Book Action! – Thank you, Mr Finanzminister, thank the Minister for further money for training young people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36346	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Also 2 minutes of welcome. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36368	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to highlight briefly the issue of childcare, because the offer of childcare is of vital importance to families, but of particular importance to women's situation, because with the length of the vocational child break – we all know – the opportunities for re-entry into the profession are falling. There are now enough studies to show that there is a very special need, namely after an expansion of childcare facilities in Austria. In essence, I think we agree that the existing shortage of childcare and childcare facilities must be resolved as quickly as possible. However, when you look at the budget, you can see that it is questionable whether this can be resolved as quickly as necessary, because in the years of the blue-black or black-orange government the FLAF was overburdened financially; Mr Riepl has already presented this very clearly and graphically. Therefore, there seems to have been insufficient funds for urgent investment. However, I am very pleased that you, Mrs Minister, have demonstrated your awareness of the problem and have announced that you want to take appropriate steps with the countries in order to really optimize childcare. This would be achieved in cooperation between the Federal Government and countries, which would ensure the development, opening hours, the quality of care or the training of kindergarten teachers and also ensure funding, in the interests of both parents and children. With the expansion of childcare places, we can bring women back to full employment. This is not only very desirable and positive from the point of view of those concerned, but also has great advantages from the economic point of view, because the social system ultimately benefits from higher women's employment, and the benefits and skills of women are not lost. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36404	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. Also two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36425	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on the wishes of Mr Spindelberger, who has declared that the official insurance is to be obtained: This will remain a wish! I would like to say: Official's insurance is a Insurance that's a good business. The officials pay a restraint – and that's why the financial situation there looks slightly different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It has already been mentioned several times today that it is undisputed that Austria has one of the best health systems worldwide. Our aim must be to ensure that this high quality will continue to be available to all people in our country – whether poor or rich – in the future, and I believe that with the present budget, it is possible to implement the planned projects accordingly. In Austria we have excellent health care. However, our focus must be on health care in the next few years. It is only then, if we drive health care accordingly, that we can continue to be able to finance our good health care. I believe that all health politicians, but, of course, all of us here in this House, have to make one thing: We need to make it clear to people that they are not only going to the workshop every year with their vehicle for service and pay a lot of money there, but also each year to use the opportunity to take care of health. I am very grateful to Mrs. Kdolsky for making it clear in one of her statements lately that she is considering integrating the precautionary examination into the occupational health measures – that is, I believe, very important. And one thing has to be clear: that every individual can make a very important contribution to his health – that starts with the diet, continues to move, and of course it is an essential contribution if you do not smoke. Mrs Bundesminister, good for your projects!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36480	The next speaker is Mrs Rudas. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36501	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am referring very briefly to prevention, particularly in the area of drugs and in the area of abuse of legal drugs such as alcohol and nicotine. Of course, there is a great deal to be said about all measures to prevent them. I just think this is not about a behavioral prevention, but about a “ratio prevention”. That means somehow teaching young people with a raised finger will be the wrong way. We must take and accept seriously the worlds of life and the realities of young people. We must involve them in decisions and actions, leave them free. In recent years, my generation has always heard: You have to be more flexible, you have to do more, only the strong get through! - and so on. I think it's a little too little now to say constantly, there's loud "coma-sup-youth." We need to improve and change the conditions of young people. I think we're on a good way. Again: Enlightenment campaigns – great!, and I think it is also very welcome that one of the three priority areas in youth promotion is prevention in the area of legal drugs. I hope that then the young ÖVP will also fewer parties to which they send invitations for a free cocktail to 13 to 24 year olds, as I take from a newspaper article. That is, on and on itself it is very good that there is prevention. I just think you need to talk more to the young people, involve them in decisions, actions and campaigns, and then we will find a good way. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36546	The next speaker is Mr Pack. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36568	Mr President. My very much appreciated wife's ministers! High house! Mrs Kdolsky, with your first budget, you can certainly achieve a lot and also realize, implement, and especially in family policy there is a lot to do. As my previous speaker mentioned, you pointed out in the Committee on Budgets that: They focus on youth and alcohol and want to do something preventive in this area. That's right. However, on this issue – and I agree entirely with Mr Rudas – one must, of course, be very sensitive. The question of why these sauforgia arise or why it comes to them is not easy to answer. There may be fears of the future, boredom, group pressure, or perhaps even the simplicity of thinking. These terms always come in such discussions. Prevention is certainly the right way, but prevention alone for young people is certainly too little. It is important to me that one also does educational work among parents that one should involve parents in the responsibility. Because sometimes I am not really sure whether the parents also know what responsibility they have toward their children. Sure, we shouldn't talk about a totally authoritarian education, but if you watch this and go through the cities with open eyes in the evening, you can see that obviously many parents don't have a problem with her 14-year-old daughters or sons until sunrise the night around the ears and maybe even drinking a bit. That is why the parents are involved in this debate. And it also says “Youth Protection Act”: We must protect young people from irrantious parents, protect them from so many greedy gastronists and protect them from themselves! – I know the problem very well. I grew up near a country youth home for heavy-duty people, where I have come to know exactly how responsible parents are. With regard to Mr Rudas' comment, the following points were added: Making events for young people is right that you adhere to the laws, also – and perhaps that you form a bit: There are also non-alcoholic cocktails! – Maybe you can insert this into the vocabulary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36605	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. Also two minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36628	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I too would like to express very much praise on the subject of health prevention today, because this is the fourth pillar of our health system, which is really a milestone. I am very glad that funds have also been put forward for this. But above all, it is important to me to talk about the primary prevention. For secondary and tertiary prevention, there are enough resources, but in the primary prevention it is limping, and we from the SPÖ have very probably the approach to spend up to a certain percentage on all cases of primary prevention from a commitment to tobacco tax. It is a great concern to all of us – I have already noticed, Mrs Federal Minister, it is also a great concern to you – to be particularly interested in children and young people. I think it is especially important to raise children at a very early age for more exercise and healthy nutrition, because what you're saying is Hans... – no... – Thank you! [[Call the ÖVP: “What Hänschen doesn’t learn, Hans never learns!”]] Exactly: “What hens don’t learn, Hans never learns!” And what Gretchen doesn't learn, Grete can't. And that is why it is important for children to be brought up to the right diet and to daily healthy exercise at an early age, so that they will have real fun in the movement, stay there and live a healthier life. Last sentence, Mrs. Kdolsky – a comment I would like to make –: They distribute condoms in schools, and we from SPÖ have also supported this basic idea. We also find that it is a matter of principle that young people should be informed and kept up to date – and it is always very sensitive to take action in the area of school or school. But my question to you: Why Support Do you not criticise Mrs Bures, the Federal Minister, when she takes her stand for slow contraception? – Mrs Federal Minister, from woman to wife: That would be fair, and I would plead for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36666	Mr Mag. Eisenschenk is the next speaker. Also 2 minutes of self-appointed speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36687	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The new Fiscal-Metality works, and the forecast figures for the coming years are excellent. This creates special niches in many areas of the budget, which now have a special added value through a targeted increase in funding. And one of these important niches is parenting. In view of the increasing challenges facing parents in relation to all educational content, this area is an important social support and creates a corresponding relief programme in relation to the increasing loads in the family environment. The offers of parenting reach all social strata and thus make an important contribution to the intercultural structure of our country. As the initiator of the association “Look at” – this is an association that deals with the clarification and prevention of child abuse – it is my personal concern to highlight the importance of parenting The two most common causes of child abuse are the abuse of power in connection with the lack of self-esteem and the exaggeration of the rightful. In view of the constant social change, it is the policy's task to make the right investment with good conscience. I am therefore convinced that: Parenting pays off for a strengthened future of our society, which continues to rely on the response of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36727	The next speaker is Mrs Schittenhelm. I put the watch on the desired 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36748	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! We actually have a healthy budget – in the health sector and also in the other areas. It is your congratulation, Mrs. Kdolsky, that, together with Mr. Vice-Chancellor Minister of Finance Molterer, you have created more quality of life, more medical security for citizens in this country, this budget: at least a budget of € 665.4 million this year and € 679.1 million this year. Access to the best possible medical care is and must remain the top goal, independent, ladies and gentlemen, of age and income and regardless of region. This ghost of the two-class medicine, which there was a few months ago from Lake Constance to Lake Neusiedler, this ghost must have been submerged somewhere or perhaps also perished, for as long as the ÖVP has the saying, ladies and gentlemen, there will not be this two-class medicine! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] As long as we bear responsibility in this country, it will not come to pass! [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Großruck: Yes, yes!]] It's clear, ladies and gentlemen: We have a lot to do. We can do well at the work of our health minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. She has set the course – across Europe – for a free health check – be proud that it is so in Austria – for the pre-examination-new and – which is especially dear to me – for women's health, male health and for an expansion of gender medicine specifically for women. [[Abg. Riepl: Well, yes!]] Let us be proud that we were pioneers in the European Union! The highlight in this European Union: the introduction of the e-card. No more thinking away today. Every Austrian goes to the doctor with the e-card and no longer needs this bureaucratic stuff. - Congratulations, dear Maria Rauch-Kallat! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we also need a more private-sector know-how, ladies and gentlemen, as the manager of the Landeskliniken-Holding in Lower Austria showed. As Minister of Health of the Republic of Austria, this manager is sitting up here today, and she will also make it possible at the federal level that we will bring more efficiency, more strength into medicine for the citizens.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36823	The last speaker on this subject is Mr Obernosterer, who is also two minutes' welcome speech. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36844	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! If we as parents want the children to take over our businesses, then we have the positive of the businesses in the To put the foreground and not the negative. If we want Austrians to see our children become proud Austrians, we must put the positive and not the negative of this republic in the foreground. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But we also have the duty to inform our young people about the negative consequences of the abuse of alcohol, drugs and nicotine. But we also have the duty to protect our youth from child abuse, from sexual offenders and drug dealers. There must be no excuse for this, even for increased punishment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If today a colleague here calls the traditional family form “dusturized”, I say: The traditional family form is not stowed for the ÖVP, which is at the heart of the promotion. There is no better system than the traditional family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But I would like to say something to the people who have come to the world with other talents: It is not our right to put these people away from society. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36910	In part health, family and youth, I have no more words available. This is the subject that is being dealt with. I thank Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky. [[18:25:42]] European and international affairs Chapter 20: Externals
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36941	I come to the negotiation of the part of European and international affairs. I welcome the Minister of State Dr. Plassnik and the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Lunacek's word. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e36965	Mr President. Ladies ministers! I would like to start by thanking the staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the current Ministry of European and International Affairs, for I think they have done a lot in recent years, especially since we decided on the last budget, even in difficult situations. I remember times of visa affairs and similar things in which they were under quite pressure – some have also been properly subtracted, but only a few. I would like to thank the Greens, particularly in view of the staff cuts in recent years, which could only partially be stopped. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. One.]] On the subject of content, I would first like to address some general foreign policy issues in order to conclude with the budget question. – In recent days, there has been some excitement about what it is to be expected that the OMV will now complete a mega-business with Iran around gas promotion. There was a fundamental yes from you, Mrs Foreign Minister, and from all parties. The reason you gave – at least the one I read – is that you said: Yes, because we have to see where we get our energy sources, we have to diversify, we can't just rely on the Russian gas. Since – I would say – it might be time for the OMV to consider perhaps going a little towards renewable energies and not rely on fossil fuels that will remain for a few decades, but probably not forever. The problem I have with this Iran business of the OMV is not a fundamental one. In contrast, this was the time when the OMC began to explore in Sudan, in a region in which there was actually civil war and in which the government also provided troops to drive out the population so that the oil companies could drill there. So this is already a different situation from the situation in Iran, whose regimes are facing the Greens and I are anything but friendly. But I think the situation here is another one. However, I think that the date of this conclusion or the publication of it is already a bit problematic. You, Mrs Foreign Minister, on Monday, the EU Council of Foreign Ministers voted in favour of increased sanctions against the Iran is imposed on uranium enrichment problems. Yesterday, Solana was my knowledge in Ankara to talk to Laridshani. It is precisely in this period when the EU is trying to exert greater pressure on Iran that the OMV comes and says: We're doing this huge business. This is, of course, seen in Iran as not being uniform in the EU. And this pressure is not uniform – I think it is very difficult. We all seem to agree on one point, namely that laws of the United States, such as the Iran Sanctions Act or the Helms-Burton Act against Cuba, have no legal effect in the European Union and are not to be applied here, neither by a BAWAG nor by anyone else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Anyway, I am glad that there has actually been unanimity. However, I think that the OMV would have to consider if it was doing this huge business with Iran, in which way it could help to improve the human rights situation in Iran. I also think that economic operators are responsible for how they operate in countries. In recent years, the OMV has written the Corporate Social Responsibility and a Stakeholder Process on the flags and also operated it as one of the first companies in Austria. I took part in this part too. But I think the OMC should also send signals here that they do not accept the regime's behaviour. For example, the OMC has cooperated with “Reporters Without Borders” in recent years. Next week, additional prices for freedom of the press will be awarded here in the OMC Parliament and “Reporters Without Borders”. I think the OMV should also do something for freedom of the press in Iran, for example cooperate with opposition newspapers, place advertisements, make events with them and the like. My speaking time is a little short today, so I would just like to address another point, namely, your reaction, Mrs Minister, to the question raised by me and another colleague from another group in the committee, as you have responded to the publications by the former Ambassador to Brussels, Woschnagg. They have defended him absolutely and at the same time have criticized the new Ambassador Schweisgut – which I have already found quite problematic. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: No, no, no!]] But with regard to the question that he has raised, that it is quite possible to consider abolishing the bilateral messages in the EU, I would be interested in what you think about them. This is because some people are asking whether they really make sense in times of the European Union. On the budget, which has been a topic of mine and the Greens for many years: the cost of development cooperation. – These rise only because there are new debts, hardly really fresh, new money. You write in a reply from Mr Bösch: If there is going to be a decrease in debt reduction measures, we will set other measures to achieve the ODA target. I wonder which one. After all, it is only two years up to 2010, and that means several 100 million € per year. You haven't told me how you want to do this to this day, although I've been demanding it for years. Mrs Minister, I think this criticism will continue until there is something like a level plan and concrete ideas as to how this can be achieved. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Take a look at the budget 07/08!]] Debts alone are simply too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37042	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37063	Mr President. Minister! Many things have already been said in terms of OMV and Iran. It's important there was no ownership. There is no state guarantee for this, and anyone who says it honestly with Iran's nuclear exodus – or not entering the enrichment – must offer alternatives. And especially the EU has to offer economic incentives here. That's in the whole positive package. In this context, it is also worth mentioning an initiative by the Foreign Minister, namely to establish internationally controlled uranium enrichment banks, because it is not only about Iran, but also about 20 or 15 other countries on the threshold. – So full support from our side in this direction. Second area: Congratulations on the budget. 50 posts, half Austrians, half sur place for visa matters. This brings more security, more customer proximity – absolutely okay. You've been a good negotiator here. They have practically saved the presidential budget into normal reality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] - It's time for applause. Third area: Congratulations and full support for your initiatives for women internationally. The women's conference – women in the Middle East – together with Condoleezza Rice, with Tzipi Livni and many high-ranking Arab politicians is an absolutely unique and hopefully not last-time event that will be very supported by all of us in the House, I believe. Fourth area – which is important to me –: Now, of course, the hot phase of the European Constitutional Treaty is beginning, and we must now develop flexibility on the one hand, and on the other hand be careful to ensure that nothing is lost in substance, which needs to be substantially preserved. I believe that, above all in the third part, we need to keep some majority voting in order to remain decisive. For the first time, energy policy in particular is a common new energy policy article. This is now described very complicatedly. That would be essential. The resolution of the three-pillar structure also seems to me to be important because otherwise we will never be able to simplify the decision-making process. It is particularly important to guarantee institutional balance, especially for small and medium-sized countries. The Charter of Fundamental Rights is important to us, and above all we must not be pushed away. It cannot be that – at what invitation always – a small part of the countries, the Heads of Government, accept this issue – all must be able to participate equally! The last point, an appeal to you and, of course, to the head of government, to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and to all those who have a vote in foreign policy: As a small, medium-sized country, we can only succeed if we really speak with one voice. So parallel negotiations or secret negotiations, which are not really coordinated and coordinated, do not do anything; Example Ukraine or Serbia-Kosovo. This only leads to confusion and is then to a great extent in need of explanation. That's all I'm saying. It's an appeal, and it's a well-intentioned appeal, mentioned here – everyone concerned knows anyway what it's all about: Budget in order, foreign policy and European policy I guess Austria's too. – I congratulate and wish you good work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37121	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 16 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37142	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Over the years, the budget in foreign policy has not essentially made dramatic changes with these around €390 million. However, some comments on the positioning of this Federal Government in terms of content are already necessary from a liberal point of view. Mr Schüssel has already announced that the new EU Constitution is now under discussion and that it will be necessary for us to develop a concept here from the Austrian point of view, also from the Austrian side. We must be aware that the draft Treaty ratified by this Parliament will not enter into force. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must also be aware that there will be a new ratification procedure which is now under way. I see no concept from the current Federal Government at all, as in this new ratification procedure, with which the Republic of Austria will be involved at European level. The most important thing for us, however, is – because this new ratification process begins – that it is clearly announced that, after a new draft Constitutional Treaty – however it may come about – there will be a referendum at Austrian national level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this seems to me to be a crucial call and also a decisive announcement by the Austrian Federal Government to help the principle of closeness to citizens, which has also been designed by the new Constitution and which has driven us all to work towards simplification of the Treaties, to break through. – Only in a referendum can we achieve that. A second aspect I would like to highlight is the accession negotiations with Turkey. The European Union is negotiating accession here. But in addition to the fact that Turkey is not a European country, ladies and gentlemen, there are also concerns about the current development towards Islamism and the lack of democratic maturity in that country. That is how – and we can all do this in the media – on the one hand again and again lead to disproportionate attacks by the security forces there on citizens and on the other hand to extremely Islamic-motivated murders on Christians. In addition, it should also be noted that the European Union is already struggling financially with the last two rounds of enlargement, but above all with enlargement to Romania and Bulgaria, not only in financial terms, but also in terms of security policy. We liberals therefore want to make it clear at last how the European Union is going about the accession negotiations with Turkey. Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you have been embarrassed to know that most of the Austrian people are opposed to Turkey's accession to the government programme, so to speak, to include in it a "poverty clause", which states that once Turkey has joined, of course, there will be a referendum on it in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: No embarrassment!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this has the same quality as if you had written into your government programme: ==References== May 2010 the sun will laugh! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is exactly the same announcement that is politically unworthy. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we want the liberals to end the accession negotiations with Turkey. I therefore allow myself, on behalf of my club, to put forward a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am firmly convinced that we are not only getting the support of the ÖVP, but also the SPÖ. The ÖVP has come back from the councils as the then government party – you as the head of government, Dr. Schüssel – with the clear promise that everything can be pressed as soon as these things happen that I have mentioned. – No one is pressing this stop button, but it must be in the sense of the ÖVP that it will be pressed! The same applies to the Government Party SPÖ, which, in its time of opposition, announced that it would be against the full accession of the Republic of Turkey to the European Union. That is why I also expect the necessary support from you here. Let me give you a small comment on European policy at all. As a result of the failure of the draft Constitutional Treaty, we believe that there is a need for a fundamental change in European policy. European policy must make it clear that it represents the interests of the citizens of the Member States – and not the interests of any economic lobbys, of any large companies, and not the interests of any major powers that are waging wars somewhere on this continent in the sense of economic interests. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The European Union must make it clear that it is in favour of strengthening families and promoting families in the Member States. The European Union must make it clear that it is for a definitive stop to mass immigration. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] The European Union must also make it clear that it is on the side of European citizens in the fight against the negative effects of globalisation. The European Union must also make it clear that it is serious about securing external borders. And this is really one of the most important challenges for the European Union in the next few years: securing the EU's external border. Here too, especially with regard to our relationship with Africa, development cooperation is involved. The assessment and weighting of development cooperation must be re-weighted from a European perspective. Development cooperation and development aid, which has been done over the last decades, were mainly aimed at creating conditions there, especially in the African states, which will enable people there to live economically and in a decent way. But this very objective has not been achieved in the last few decades by all the mechanisms of development policy, otherwise it could not be that hundreds of refugees are stranded almost daily on the coasts of Europe in the summer months to try to get into the territory of the European Union illegally. That is why we believe that this development policy must be completely reorganised in relation to the African continent, because we must recognise that development policy has failed over the last decades. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be clearly demanded that African states receiving funds from European states regulate their political conditions that there are conditions that are worthy of human beings. And every giant, every cent that is pumped into these African states by the European side, must be linked to these conditions. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are of the opinion that, in terms of development cooperation, Mrs Lunacek, it is not a matter of how much money you pay, but of what conditions there are and how this money can be used by the local population, that not under a wrong objective and a wrong pre-text exactly the opposite is achieved by what you really want. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the other areas of foreign policy, with regard to the commitment in the Middle East, it is clear that we liberals are in favour of the European Union and also the Republic of Austria, especially in this Mediterranean powderbox, in such a way that we do not have a policy of inequality and a policy of injustices, but that the parties in question can really recognize that there is not a double measure. This must be the objective of Austrian foreign policy in terms of politics in the Middle East! Ladies and gentlemen, we should also consider and reassess our participation in international conflicts and their settlement. It must be clear from our point of view that the Republic of Austria is not involved in international wars, which have been broken by the United States of America in particular. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is mainly about the war in Iraq, but also about the war in Afghanistan. In our view, we must constantly review these participations and also this commitment in this direction and see clearly where Austrian interests are and where they are not. In this sense: Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals will continue to critically accompany European politics, but also the foreign policy of this new great coalition.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37254	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37275	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have already said on an earlier occasion that we would have given you even more money, but budgets are not Christmas gifts, and therefore: Satisfaction with the budgets within the framework of the potential! Let me make a few brief comments, first of all in principle! First of all. Of course, I agree with the honourable Member when he says that we must try – small or medium-sized countries we are – to pool our forces in foreign, European and security policy to speak with a language. That's what we're signing. Secondly. We should also focus our policies on certain principles. One thing is of course that foreign policy has to serve the interests of Austria and the interests of the people of Austria. The other is that it follows certain principles, namely to support the rule of law, democracy and human rights as well as economic and social compensation. Why that? – Because the prerequisites are to ensure peaceful living together in the societies in our neighborhood or in general in the world and between societies. And we should make a contribution to this in our own interest. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] The third is that, as a small or medium-sized state, we should also benefit from the special opportunities we have – the special opportunities that exist, among other things, in not being afraid of small or medium-sized countries. needs and therefore that the ability to talk with others is sometimes easier, that we do not have a stressful colonial past and that in some regions we are, among other things, accepted as credible interlocutors and that we still have a neutrality that is sometimes an attractive feature of Austria, which enables us to do reasonable things externally. Three or four short examples of this: Much has already been said about Iran, one thing can still be said: There are clear sanctions decisions by the United Nations and the EU. We have to stick to these. I'm sorry, but the But there are also areas that are not covered by it. I think very much that one remains in discussions and in reasonable contacts with a country that is so much under pressure – and that is, by the way, a proud country – because this is the basis for possible conflict resolution. And this also includes economic cooperation in those areas where this is not excluded by sanctions decisions. To that extent, I do not consider the activities of the OMV to be deviant, but useful. Let me give you a second example. We know that the Central Asian States have a great interest in cooperation with Austria, both in political and economic terms, that there are interests of cooperation with parliaments there because Austria is a medium-sized state in the European Union and neutral. We should take advantage of these opportunities! Opening a message in Kazakhstan is a real step that we support. Third example: Kosovo. Through a number of reasons in Serbia and throughout the region we have a very good reputation, a very good name. The Austrian economy has invested heavily. That is highly appreciated there. If there is to be a solution to the problem of Kosovo, it is also useful for Austria to bring in its special strength. We do not want to go away from the Ahtisaari Plan, no, we stand on this basis, but we must be aware that Serbia and that Serbian politicians, but also the people of Serbia, so to speak, should have a reason to accept this path to give up Kosovo. I do not think very much of the idea of forcing a solution without Serbia at least silently accepting that this is a reasonable solution. This can be done if it becomes clear that there is a European perspective that is capable of providing a better solution than all nationalism. Austria is probably able to make an additional contribution. In any case, we would be in favour of this. Let me say one last thing because today the Russian opposition politician and former chess world champion Kasparov is in Vienna and I also had the opportunity to have a more detailed conversation with him. ==References== May President Putin Austria pay a state visit. The developments in the rule of law and democracy give rise to concern. We have also heard here more often of the article 301 of the Turkish Criminal Code, which punishes unTurkish behavior and is an appropriate instrument, not only opposition, but above all also Kurds at any time in To bring conflict. There is a similar provision in Russia. It's called extremism. So far, accusations of extremism have been five years of punishment. Now, a law is being passed by the Duma, which increases the criminal framework to 15 years. This kind of accusation of unlawful behaviour, which allows people to disappear for years behind bars, is an attack on the rule of law and democracy, and I think that, despite all interests in the delivery of Russian gas to Austria, we will also have to address such questions during the state visit of Putin in Austria. If the basis is a friendly and economic reasonable relationship, these issues must also be put in place. Since there seems to be a bit of time left, I would also like to deal with the question of what should happen to the European Constitution – in fact, we should call it different now, because it is not appropriate to continue to call it a Constitution. I would like essentially to follow what Klubobmann Schüssel has already said. With great flexibility, which we have shown so far in these issues, we must ensure that the fundamental principles are met, namely strengthening the rights of citizens, the Charter of Fundamental Rights, strengthening the rights of citizens, including the strengthening of the European Parliament, and at the same time ensuring the European Union's ability to act by maintaining or, at least, extending majority voting, especially where not only the Council but also the Parliament has to decide, so that democratic legitimacy of decisions is guaranteed. We should be committed to this, and we also wish you success.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37381	The motion for a resolution previously tabled by Mr Bösch is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37433	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 8 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; 11 minutes of remaining speaking time of the political group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37454	Mr President. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Should I? I am referring to the question of whether we should take advantage of the speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Foreign Minister, the budget at the Foreign Office is only the corset. As in hardly any other place, the policy behind it is the essential. The budget is quite positive, I would like to point out here, of course, lower than last year, when we had to finance the EU presidency, but a lot higher than in previous years. As far as foreign policy is concerned, we should try to bring about a national consensus with all the differences within the internal market. One should try – also the Austrian National Council – to speak externally with a language. That is why we will also give our consent as a signal to this budget chapter. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I would like to say that, as I see, this cooperation, this consensus at the parliamentary level is developing very well. We have a great deal of cooperation with Mr Spindelegger, with Mr One, with Mrs Lunacek and also with Mr Bösch, and a lot of meetings, where we are trying to take a clear position here or at least harmonise positions, as we stand as parliamentarians on foreign policy issues, in all the different approaches that exist. What I miss a little – I have to say with all my appreciation – is contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs itself. I do not know what this is like in the government groups, but we as the opposition party are still waiting for a perhaps formalized way of contact. But I'm sure that'll be the case soon. In addition to the budget, it is important, as has been said, that the policy behind it also promises the corresponding dynamic. Austria is a small country, and we, as Austrians, believe that we are the Nabel of the world, including the Nabel of the European Union is. We have often heard of the opposition in the last seven years, which would be more important if another government were at work. We now see that nothing has changed, but on the contrary: that among former German chancellors the value of Austria has been greater. Then: Even if you drink wine with a President of the Commission, this does not mean that you will be invited to all the summits immediately. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] I also see this critically, and I am now also saying this in the sense of uniformity. This is not the case in the European Union, because suddenly there are small circles on which to discuss important issues, such as those of the European Constitution or environmental policy, and that other countries, for whatever reason, have to stand outside and wait for what the few have done. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I also expect from Austria's activities – not from hurt vanity, because one is not as important as one believes, but also with a self-confidence as a small country that must have the same voting rights, the same rights as any other country in the European Union – that there must be equality and equal treatment in the European Union's bodies. You also like to get to Austria by numbers. When it comes to delivering new contributions to get out of difficult situations or out of deadlocks, I have already presented our idea of the core Europe several times where we say: Okay, this European Constitution, which ultimately wants to treat all 27 Member States equally, is so likely no longer feasible and not reformable. Let us think for a period of five or ten years and try to create a new model for this European Union, namely a core Europe of the highest-developed countries, which, on its own initiative, also through referendums, together with the population in these countries, choose the highest level of European integration: Monetary union, economic union, security union and all these areas. If you don't want to, you'll take different modules out. And at the very extreme edge of this common Europe could be the ‘partnership for Europe’, where countries that cannot become members of the EU for a variety of reasons, such as Turkey from our point of view, or do not want to, like Norway or other European countries could enter into this tailor-made cooperation with the European Union. This is certainly future music, but that would be an interesting variant, also represented by Austria, that one shows that we think ahead and do not try to do something in small circles, which is no longer repairable. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Similarly, ladies and gentlemen, we would have expected or could have made Austria a part of Balkan policy. The Balkans is rightly a priority for Austrian foreign policy, but perhaps we were all too brave to say clearly that the fiction of a rapid re-unification of the various peoples in the Balkans is not feasible – in all that people in this region, especially in front of the cultural background, have experienced. It had to be – unfortunately – Ahtisaari, who said, in truth we must note that this Kosovo Union with Serbia will not be a plan for peaceful co-existence in this region. And that's reality, too. Perhaps it would have been nice if it had been us who had taken this initiative, but you can only support this idea. Other issues in the European Union: one of them is globalisation. If we are already talking about environmental issues and here we are talking about speed 100 and everything possible, such as prohibiting long-distance travel, I would expect that we will also bring this discussion into the European Union about environmental standards in other areas of the world, whether this is in Asia, especially in China, whether these are the United States, which in many areas are not concerned with anything at all and there are many potentials for pollution more than we can correct with our sham measures. But this can only be done by the European Union itself and by no means by itself. It is also in development cooperation. We acknowledge that Austria, but primarily coordinated by the European Union, must also contribute to the fact that people in their home countries can achieve a better future at the economic level. For immigration, Mrs Foreign Minister, on the other hand also prevents illegal immigration to Europe. In this sense, we also support the initiatives of the Federal Government to increase the funds for development cooperation, but are skeptical of whether the objectives are actually being achieved. Above all, we do not want debt to be included in this objective of increasing to 0.51 percent of gross national income. In order to support you in this context, too, Parliamentary, I would like to make the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner and others: The National Council wants to decide: The Federal Government, and in particular the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, is invited to take budgetary measures to ensure the achievement of the 0.51 percent of gross national income by 2010 without taking into account debt payments for development cooperation services. I believe that this would be a good contribution to a comprehensive security policy system, however I would like to remind you once again that Austria is interested in the fact that there is a European component of security and defence policy. As a small country, we are the main beneficiaries of a European shield in this area, but we also have a contribution to make to dealing with crises in other regions, because these crises also come very quickly to Austria with their impact. As far as the external borders are concerned, Mrs Foreign Minister, I would like Austria, in cooperation with other countries, to ensure that all countries, as we have done about many, many years, which will help you to ensure that the EU's external borders are safeguarded against illegal immigration, and that in the future, it is not permitted for countries such as Spain, but also others to make legalisation actions for all the illegals which are taking place in It is also important to ensure that the European Union's external relations with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe are fully integrated into the European Union. Finally, I would like to say: We are committed to seeking national consensus in foreign policy. This cannot be a one-way road, and I hope for a two-sided or multi-sided cooperation here. I believe that the Austrian National Council has contributed the Seine to this. We must help Austrian policies in the European Union to break through, knowing that we have limited opportunities, but offensively and with courage and force of enforcement, at least try to enforce Austrian positions in the European Union.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37592	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Scheibner and others has been properly tabled, sufficiently supported, and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37651	Mrs Plassnik has now been reported next word. You've got 20 minutes of target time. I give you the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37672	Madam President. High house! For the Ladies and gentlemen, who are visiting Parliament today: The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, now the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs, is the smallest place, the smallest ministry. But we are an exciting ministry: We have 1 261 employees at 107 locations in the world. It is a huge challenge to link these, to achieve an optimal for Austria, to maintain Austrian positions, to contribute to peace development work globally and through the European Union and with the European Union. I am happy every day to be able to do this with my employees, and I would also like to thank them very much at this point – they do great work! [[General condolences.]] We have a budget of €388.1 million. We can thus secure the substance and carry out the core tasks. We attach great importance to placing citizens' services and the safety of Austrians in our work at the same level and providing them with them, I believe, even exemplary ones. This is also true for the delicate area of visas. And I would like to take the opportunity to hold on – it has been pointed out that this is always a particularly difficult situation for the staff of my house – that the four so-called Edelmayr advertisements have come to pass against Mrs. Federal Minister Ferrero-Waldner, now EU Commissioner for Foreign Affairs, against Ambassador Loibl, against Ambassador Porias and Ambassador Ortner. These criminal charges have now been filed, and I would like to mention this. [[General condolences.]] We have been given the opportunity to hire more people with this budget in the field of visas. This is essential: plus 25 in the area of the posted staff and plus 25 in the so-called Sur-Place staff. This is also important to ensure proper work in this area. We have got a little more money also in the field of culture. For me, the culture is a trademark for the positioning of Austria in the World Village, in the Global Village, and here we do not want to save. In particular, we will use the funds for the dialogue of cultures, for Austria libraries with new locations in Istanbul, Odessa, Podgorica. – I am also looking forward to this part of our work. As far as conferences are concerned, there is also a slightly increased budget. This is necessary, because the location Vienna, the location Austria needs this overall. It is also good and interesting, the topics are exciting. Here too, the dialogue of religions is focused. The topic of women. – There will be a Middle East conference on the topic of women. The basis for this, politically and intellectually, if you like, is also the Arab Human Development Report, whose last year's edition is dedicated specifically to the situation of women in the Arab world. An interesting, exciting theme! According to my knowledge, no one has yet adopted this issue. The relevant interest also signal the applications and the information, the information we have given in the run-up to this conference, which took place on 30 and 31. May be held here in Vienna. Of course, we have included women from civil society from a number of countries here. More resources are also available for voluntary contributions to international organisations. These funds mainly serve to combat poverty, as well as women and refugees. More resources are also available for the ADA, for project work in the field of development cooperation. For the first time – this is really a novum – there is more resources for the CFSP, for the common foreign and security policy; for the actions, the missions in this area, we have our own empowerment in the budget of €4 million each. A long-term issue, at least from the budget side, should be clarified once and for all. Let me now turn to a few points of content. The topic of Balkans has already been mentioned. I am convinced that the issue of south-eastern Europe, especially the Balkans, for every Austrian foreign minister, must simply be a priority issue for every Austrian foreign minister. It is a security issue, it is an issue of economic development. The small tiger states there, as they are already called, are very important for us, for our jobs, but also for our prosperity. And – and that's the most important thing –: We have huge numbers of human links, we also have great support here from civil society in many projects running. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The issue of security is also exciting. I was in Moldova yesterday. There we have presented a real pilot project, namely, the smaller and medium-sized countries, the KMS, which are actually showing in this area in the European Union how to do it. We have opened a common visa entry point, which is located in the premises of the Hungarian Embassy. We do this together with Hungary – Hungary was the leader here – Slovenia and Latvia. It has already been interested to participate here: Estonia, Denmark and Sweden. I think that this project serves two objectives: One is to increase security in the field of visas for us, for the Europeans, and on the other hand to open the doors to those from Moldova who are entitled to do so. They too are part of the European family. We should and must not forget that. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, to Serbia. – No one has tried more here in recent months than we Austrians to make clear to Serbia and, above all, the Serbs: The European perspective is tangible. We strive in the field of visa allocation, visa facilitation, we strive in economic support. I would like to thank the 220 Austrian companies that provide jobs in Serbia and contribute to economic development. And we are also doing this politically: through a closed attitude of the European Union. We fully support Martti Ahtisaari's proposals. They have been written with much wisdom and wisdom, they are the sum of what the international community has to offer here. They are based on a controlled independence of Kosovo. The support of the UN Secretary-General is available, and I am convinced that the European Union will go this way. We are reaching out to Kosovo. We will have a strong presence there in the future, especially in the area of rule of law, in order to help. On the topic of Iran. – Ladies and gentlemen, I am here for a dialogue with clear messages. That is what I am saying on a day when Javier Solana, the High Representative of European Foreign Policy, met Ali Laridshani, in Turkey, and we have a closed attitude here. It is not about the issue of the EU or the USA or anything else in the nuclear field, and I am restricting it here and putting it clearly. This is because Iran has to be confident. Here there is uncertainty about the nature of this nuclear programme, on which Iran is working, and not only is it working, but it is also constantly communicating. We want clarity, therefore, the United Nations measures that are now being implemented in the European Union. We are, of course, involved in this, and there is no doubt about it. But there is no doubt that we are not the 51. The state of the United States is that we do not apply correctly, which is not ours. This is a very clear position, and it is also a position of the European Union. My house – it was discussed in connection with the subject of BAWAG – is responsible for ensuring the implementation of this Regulation in Austria. I therefore, of course, have taken the necessary steps and have contacted the BAWAG as soon as suspicious moments appear, and I have asked very specific, very specific questions. Here an administrative criminal procedure has been initiated, just as it has been prescribed by the law. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP and the BZÖ.]] Let me also make one point: We have never missed Iran's clear messages on human rights, for example. We have not in any case committed ourselves, but in many individual cases; you know this here in the House too. We have also clearly rejected the outrageous and unacceptable statements made by Iranian President Ahmadinejad on the subject of Holocaust, for example on the issue of Israel's right of existence. [[General condolences.]] Last point: the Constitutional Treaty. – This is really true: We can and do not want to turn the clock back to zero! We have a first-class basis with the Constitutional Treaty, which has been drawn up, and we are working closely with the German Presidency. We hope – the German Presidency has also taken over the schedule of Klosterneuburg – that we are here equipped with a good mandate, At the end of the German Presidency, the decisive step will continue in the second half of this year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37829	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. You've done 2 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37854	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the short term, I would like to address three points. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to begin by congratulating you for the courage you have shown, your courage throughout the discussion about the Causa Cuba – BAWAG – USA, where you have made a very clear and clear statement, where, as the subject has become known, you have contacted the Director-General of the BAWAG and clearly represented the European legal situation and the Austrian view, namely that European law and Austrian law are applicable in Europe and in Austria – and not American! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the Groteske is of the opinion that the former trade union bank is now excluding customers from the peasant and workers state of Cuba. You have to break that on the tongue, how it has developed! – Well, it will continue to be discussed. A second point, Mrs Federal Minister, is your attitude towards Iran. You also said this: A very clear support also from the investments of the OMV, which are also in line with the European directives. And if the situation in Iran is sued here, I must say: Iran is largely due to its isolation that the situation is the same as it is. Third point, Mrs Minister: A warm thank you for your commitment to the Visa regime, where you have tried at European level to ensure that, especially in Serbia, in the Balkans, young people are given reliefs, so that they can also convince themselves on the spot of how life is in Europe, and perhaps get a different view than they have when they have to be isolated in Serbia or in other countries. Ladies and gentlemen, finally a few cheerful things, a triple four-liner. You can remember the story with the wine drink: Our chancellor, as we know, does life very much. So it may happen that he is misguided by Freud’schich; that he simply calls Europe’s President “Mr Barolo”. Which, in addition, may lead to Putin becoming "Pusskin". Merkel becomes “Frau Merlot”. From Berlusconi “Bordeaux”. Jacques Chirac then becomes "Shiraz". Yes, our Gusi makes for fun.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37911	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e37932	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! In contrast to the SPÖ colleagues, I am always grateful to Mr Grossruck for his lyrical contributions, which somehow excite the whole thing. On the subject itself. – Mrs Federal Minister! High house! I find it quite exciting that foreign policy is one of those areas in which all parties are trying to form the greatest possible consensus, even where there are differences. And there is this, Mr Scheibner, although I have also found your speech to be good, which of course exists on certain issues, such as Turkey's accession, but also in the way you deal with immigration. I have also been impressed by the honourable Member's speech, not only as regards the Central Asian area, but also as regards the question: How do we deal with rule of law? And now I come to the real subject, Mrs. Federal Minister. Of course, I am pleased that you have today given a very clear opinion on the subject of BAWAG. I would nevertheless like to address the subject again, because there is a very strange situation. I was actually concerned because your ministry did not come up with a public opinion, as the Ministry considers with the implementation of EU Regulation 2271, which sets out very clearly how to deal with such pressure. I then let myself be told that's always usual for your place of business. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Good. We only have one problem, Mrs. Federal Minister! - No, I don't. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Plassnik.]] That's okay, too. We only have one problem, and I want to tell you this very briefly. I can spare myself telling the previous story, which is that the Director-General of the BAWAG says he had to act like this because he had to fulfil these requirements according to the Office of Foreign Assets Control. This attitude and assessment of BAWAG has subsequently changed. A correction was made. It was said that no it was not the OFAC that forced the BAWAG to do so, but, on its own initiative, the Cubans and Cubans were excluded because of the reorganisation of business relations. But what now comes from the BAWAG Directorate-General makes the matter even worse, and that is why I wish myself not only here in the House, Mrs Federal Minister, but also publicly clear words from you. If the Director-General of BAWAG now publicly states that it would be necessary to obtain an exemption from the OFAC for the Cubans – or for the persons of Cuban origin who live in Austria and have an account here – at least the Director-General of the BAWAG – and Apparently the ÖGB – still not yet understood that for every person who lives and works here in Austria, not American law, nor the OFAC is responsible for exceptional permits, but only Austrian law, and this also applies to Austrian banks – even if they have an US owner. The terrifying thing about this situation is that the Director-General, just like the ÖGB President, is obviously a repeater. First of all, he says it applies to American law, and that is quite simple, you put it into practice, you do it so, there is no alternative at all, it applies to us only American law. Then he spells out almost back, and then he says again, we're trying to get the exemption. This shows – I could add now, Mr Androsch also recommends that the BAWAG now – that all these gentlemen have not yet arrived where we actually had to stop and discuss: that of course and thank God – I must say – a EU regulation sets out very clearly the way each Austrian company has to go, which is faced with appropriate interventions, regulations, legal decisions from the American side. Every Austrian company and every Austrian person must go to the Commission. She has to! And the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which I like, has to follow if that doesn't happen. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] I therefore find this way to the Commission exciting, because this means that the European Union takes responsibility for the company as well. That's a good way, and we shouldn't leave it. This does not include Courage, but includes the willingness to comply with Austrian law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38030	The next speaker was Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38051	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think today is also historically a very good day to talk about foreign policy, development policy and peace policy. The free and democratic Republic of South Africa is celebrating its 13th anniversary today. birthday. Without international solidarity, without global political pressure, it would hardly have been possible for this country, apart from apartheid and racism, to be freed from its shackles and really to become a free country. Historically, the day is also because we read that there are today talks about a possible resumption of peace negotiations between the government of Uganda and the Lord's Resistance Army in Juba. Uganda is a priority country of Austrian development cooperation. In northern Uganda there has been a civil war for over two decades, leading to tens of thousands of internally displaced persons being confined to refugee camps, depending on the World Food Programme, that children are kidnapped and forced to live as soldiers, as prostitutes, on their young lives, that the country is in agony, that every vision is killed and that the people of every life perspective are deprived. Austria's development cooperation is active in the region, for example by supporting an SOS Children's Village, contributing to the resocialisation of child soldiers, rehabilitation and vocational training, thus giving hope, work and prospects. More money is needed for the development of such very important projects, especially bilateral ones. I would have liked to see a clear increase in fresh money for the political design of Austrian development cooperation. I would also like to see Austria's political involvement in different crisis regions, whether through the UN, whether within the framework of the European Union or as the Republic of Austria itself. I wish myself a peace-making, mediating and mediating role of Austria, whether in North Uganda, Sri Lanka, the Middle East or anywhere. We who have the privilege of living in peace for over 60 years, I think, are really called upon to reinvigorate our historical role as peacemakers and to increase the invaluable value of life in peace, including poverty reduction, social infrastructure, sustainable development. A coherent – a truly coherent – development policy is a very important key to this. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38096	Mr Kurzmann is speaking as the next speaker. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. The rest of your group's speaking time is 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38118	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In the Subcommittee of the Budget Committee, we discussed the importance and importance of the displaced persons and also the lack of support for the German minorities in the successor states of the former Austro-Hungarian monarchy. To what extent in the double budget 2007/2008 funding and funding for old Austrian minorities in the south-eastern European countries are planned, you have answered – and I can quote you: ‘In principle, the award of grants to old Austrian minorities is not foreseen, but does not, in accordance with the general framework guidelines of the Federal Ministry of Finance for the award of grants, provided that the promoter meets the criteria of public benefit.’ A few lines further you then referred to: ‘For example, for 2007, the associations of the German-speaking minority in Slovenia (“Brück/Mostovi, Gottscheer Altsiedler Verein, Kulturverein Abstaller Feld, Verein Peter Kozler”) are provided for funds in the approximate order of € 20 000.’ Ladies and gentlemen! From my point of view, this is the open admission of negligence and indifference which Austrian foreign policy brings to our minorities outside the borders of Austria, because you cannot seriously claim that 19 000 or 20 000 euros bear witness to a special appreciation for these people. In fact, this is a bet that you blame our compatriots for as brocades and for whom they have to apply for projects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Consider the promotions of the Carinthian Slovenians as a comparison! The funding received by the Carinthian Slovenians through Austria can be seen: That is once €1.2 million from this republic. In addition, the funding of the country of Carinthia and the promotions of the Republic of Slovenia are included. The The cost of schooling has not yet been included, but the Presidential Section alone has provided a sum of €360 000 for the Slovenian minority in the field of schooling. The Styrian Slovenians – this is a small group of a few hundred people – receive at least €40 000 in funding from the Federal Chancellery. And what sum do you make available in comparison? - $20,000! It is not to be wondered if the representatives of our minorities in the successor states of the K.u.k. The monarchy is in a state of conspicuousness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] One of these representatives, ladies and gentlemen, has made this quite clear. It is Mrs Veronika Haring, the chairman of the Cultural Association of German-speaking women. In an interview on the situation of the Germans in Slovenia, she explained: "We are the only German minority group in south-eastern Europe that is not recognised. For Slovenia, this means that ‘there is no such thing as us’. We're not here, and if we say something, they say, “You do not live in a closed area, you live scattered in Slovenia.” This is a consequence of the Germans being murdered, expelled and assimilated after 1945. It's a real cynicism when the Slovenians now say that we don't exist, or blame us for living scattered in Slovenia." Then the question is asked: “Does this mean that you do not receive any support from the Slovenian State?” And Mrs. Haring says: “Yes, we don’t get anything at all.” “So are you an unacknowledged minority?” said the further question, and Haring answers: “Yes!” Question: “After a visit to an Austrian parliamentary delegation” – and there were some who are also here today in the House – “in spring Slovenian President Janez Drnovšek came to you. What was the cause of this visit and what did he say?" Mrs. Haring says: “This was the first time a Slovenian president has visited the German minority. He has said that we have a right to receive recognition, and that he will “transmit our requests to the government” – in Liège. He will try to do something for us and represent us in his own words." Question: ‘Has anything happened so far?’ Haring: ‘No, nothing at all.’ Question: “What do you expect from Austria?” Haring: “At present, and I have to say that unfortunately, not too much. Five years ago, a cultural agreement with Slovenia was negotiated and signed, of which we have nothing at all. From Slovenia we get nothing at all, from Austria we have now received twice a smaller support (...).” Ladies and gentlemen, this opinion speaks volumes, and it does not shed a good light on Austria and on dealing with our minorities. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to make a motion for a resolution, knowing that the government parties are going to reject it, but we are not supposed to let anything go unattended. I would like to maintain this at least for the Stenographical Protocol. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38258	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38312	The next item is the speech by Mr Glaser. You'd like to talk for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38334	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! The 2007 and 2008 budgets in the field of development cooperation have reached almost the level we are looking for in 2010 - 0.51 percent of GDP. I think this is quite a success, and I assume that we will achieve this value in 2010. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Development cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is an area that is becoming increasingly important in the international community. It is certainly an area that not only means development cooperation but much more. This area for me, for example, means concrete human rights policy – simply by trying to achieve the Millennium Goals that are here: halve poverty, fight disease and hunger and strengthen the rights of women and children. Development cooperation is concrete sustainability policy by trying to improve infrastructure in the local area, achieve rural development, sovereignty in the field of food and energy, and it is concrete security policy because we simply contribute to understanding through project work, co-existence and by getting to know cultures. Achieving the financial goals – the 0.51 percent – is an area. However, development cooperation is more particularly with us in the Austrian foreign and security policy. It is about fair trade conditions, good governance, good partnership relations, and that is what Austrian foreign and development cooperation policy basically constitutes. – In this sense, we thank the Foreign Minister for her efforts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38383	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. It's done for 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38404	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for cultural projects, which is fortunately a growing trend – from around €6 million for 2006 to €7.6 million for 2007 and 2008, a significant plus. This will finance the cultural activities of a worldwide network of 28 cultural forums, 50 Austrian libraries, 5 language institutes, special cooperation offices in Washington and Lemberg, as well as embassies and general consulates involved in cultural work. Little insight gives the Federal estimates about the actual operational budget of each location and about focussing. We have also criticised this in the last budget: It is not understandable where the focus of the individual institutions lies, how concrete projects are decided and whether, for example, the presentation of new art and cultural sectors is given sufficient space. It is also not visible whether the individual cultural forums have sufficient dosages to work efficiently and successfully. A review of which cultural forums would need additional resources and at which sites to strengthen the activities is also pending. Strengthening foreign cultural activities would be particularly important in view of the international importance of cultural exchange or also of frequent cultural dialogue in order to contribute to the prevention and management of crises. I would also like to focus briefly on development cooperation: The budget has also been slightly increased, but it is still too small to be able to fulfil the commitments we have entered into internationally and in the EU. A concrete step plan to achieve the agreed target is missing by 2015. However, this small increase in development cooperation is also striking because sufficient resources are apparently available for the doubling of representation costs to € 900 000 for 2007/2008 and also for the cost of renaming the resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38450	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. You've done 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38471	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Three important issues for me: You have a good budget to maintain your tasks internationally – the service activity and the network – and also to secure the normal operation, which is quite comprehensive. Secondly, Its special commitment has always been Croatia, and we have been able to see the media today that Croatia is on the right track to become a member of the European Union. Thank you very much for your commitment! Thirdly, They have a special approach for the issuing of visas for finance and personnel: 50 people more, 25 of them sur place. But not only more finances and staff, but also new cooperation models are outstanding in the Visa commitment. I would like to thank you for this and continue to wish you many successes of your foreign policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38504	Next, Mr Heinzl. You too want 3 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38528	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! On the budget chapter, I would like to address the Court of Auditors' comments on trade in visas, visas and scandals. The visa scandal at the Austrian representations in Budapest, Buenos Aires and Belgrade was obviously due not least to the lack of arrangements in the field of the organisation of the embassies. According to the Court of Auditors, the prevention measures in the consular area at the Austrian embassies, which I have just mentioned, namely Belgrade, Budapest and Buenos Aires, were insufficient. Among other things, the Court of Auditors proposes – I quote – that the first visa request should be made only on executives of the embassies at the Consular Department, that they should keep the regular rotation of anti-corruption staff and, third, that they should immediately carry out the neglected inspections of Honorary Consulates. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to know from you how far the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has already followed these proposals from the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The internal control systems of the embassies are so much reinforced by organisational measures that these incredible processes that have existed can no longer be possible in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of joint visa posts with other EU Member States could also contribute positively, first of all through the necessary standardisation and external control of organisational processes in the future, to make corruption as easy as possible and, secondly, to mitigate the obvious lack of personnel by sharing work between the embassies. Finally, Mrs Federal Minister, I can tell you that I am really pleased that you opened a joint visa office in Moldova yesterday, and I wish you a lot of success for your future work for our Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38574	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38595	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Bundesminister, you have already said it today, and I have also read it: Yours The aim is to further the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a service service for citizens and the economy. I can or will only support you because I think that this path you are taking is a whole, quite correct, as is the way you are going, namely the persistent dialogue on human rights issues. This is a very important, ever-necessary dialogue, and we are seeing it now again in Russia. You promised to address that. I would also like to say: We were in China recently and were able to learn from members of the government that Austria – especially from you, but also from the former Federal Chancellor – was very well-informed about human rights, and I would like to thank you very much for this as a human rights spokesperson of the Social Democrats. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Why do I say that? – Mrs Minister, this is important to me, because, so to speak, we deserve €6 of €10 in export and our biggest export potential next to the EU is the USA, China and the Eastern European States. And there are also states of which – not everyone is allowed to condemn – in which human rights violations are more or less common. Human rights are a cross-sectional matter, Mrs Minister, and I would ask you for lobbying in the following ways: There are a large number of economic delegations in almost all the countries of the world, and I think that very soon we should begin to raise awareness in this regard. Recently, the Oesterreichische Nationalbank commissioned a research project carried out by the Ludwig Boltzmann Institute. The study on Human Rights & Economics follows three key questions: “Why do economic actors become increasingly important as recipients of human rights claims?” What is the “roll of the state? – Is there a legal responsibility of companies for human rights violations? Which state frameworks?’ and: "What relevant instruments are there to implement this responsibility? What are the possibilities for their further development?" Mrs Minister, I would ask you to operate lobbying in this area, so that perhaps we can do a round table on which we can take this study on the basis of which to raise the awareness of companies in the future, whatever important task they could carry out in connection with their activities abroad in the interests of human rights. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38650	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Ehmann is next on the list of speakers. Voluntary speaking time limit: also 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38674	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Foreign Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I should like to make a contribution to development cooperation. I believe that enlargement of development cooperation is an essential part of the chapter on foreign policy. In the discussion, we, as MEPs, are confronted daily with the global economy and its rules of play, with the free movement of employees and so on. The issues raised are, of course, international issues which are directly linked to foreign policy. However, these international issues understandably also cause fear and concern for the people of the country. It follows, of course, that improved development cooperation is an absolutely meaningful part of foreign policy. Where are the roots of the people? – It is so when you are born in a country, especially in a developing country, that you do not in principle need to leave your own country, but people are often forced to do so. The fact is that there are many people who can no longer remain in their homes for economic, health, political and environmental reasons. An example of this: The UN estimates, for example, that by 2010, there will be 50 million people worldwide who leave their country due to changed environmental conditions. All contributions and measures so that people do not have to flee and put their lives at risk when they leave home are to be welcomed and, of course, supported. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer.]] So, now you saved me time. Thank you! – As a result, any increased development aid in those countries that are absolutely in need of it is a real step that will make people feel better in their countries and thus put these so-called economic escapes in the background. Budgetary evaluation in development cooperation is also highlighted positively by the Chamber of Labour. For me, the only drops of advertising are the fact that a large part of this budget assessment is due to debt. Finally, I hope that the established working group in the Ministry of Finance, which will soon be able to present a stage plan, will be able to reach the percentage of 0.7 percent of gross national income for development cooperation required by the EU Decision by 2015. – Thank you for the attention. I wish you a nice evening.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38716	Thank you, honourable Member. No one is reporting on this. This is why this subject area has also been completed. I am now interrupting the session until Friday 27th. April 2007, 9 o'clock. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, the part will continue to be taught, art and culture. The sitting was suspended. [[19:49:01]] [[The meeting was held on Thursday, 26 March. On April 27, 2007, at 7.49 p.m. and on Friday, 27th. On 9 April 2007, continued at 9.01 a.m.]] [[09:01:49]] Continued the meeting: Friday, 27. April 2007, 9.01 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38769	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 21. National Council meeting again. As prevented, MEPs are reported ing. Gartlehner, Mandak, Mag. Honey, Mag. Weinzinger, Ing. Hofer, Mag. Stadler. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38799	I announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein is appointed by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour Christine Marek, Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll is represented by the Federal Minister for the Interior Günther Platter. On my list, I would also say that the Minister of Education can be represented, which is not true because she is already sitting here. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38844	The following speeches were fixed for today's session: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and FPÖ per 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. [[09:02:53]] Education, art and culture Chapter 12: Education and culture Chapter 13: Arts
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38878	We continue in the negotiations of the 2007 and 2008 budgets. The section on education, art and culture, Chapters 12 and Chapter 13. First of all, Mr Brosz, with a welcome speech of 9 minutes, has been reported. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e38905	Madam President. Minister of Education! The SPÖ has been telling us for some time now that education policy or the educational budget is the core of the Social Democratic manuscript in the Government Convention. You can try to light up to see if that's true or not. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] - That's right! Mr Broukal is already active all morning. He told us about several newspapers that the budget would have increased by 10 percent. [[Abg. Broukal: I talked about the university budget!]] - No, no, from the educational budget. This would have been €600 million; de facto, the Minister of Finance Molterer and the Minister responsible also say. However, there is only a budget of €50 million in additional real opportunities available in 2007 and € 145 million in 2008. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] - Great applause, yes wonderful! At € 6.6 billion – perhaps you can now count on – are € 50 million 0.8 percent of the budget increase. This is obviously the great educational reform we are talking about after a saving course under which Austrian schools have suffered massively. So: 0.8 percent increase this year, 2, some percent increase in 2008, which is apparently the throw in the SPÖ-dominated program. In view of these extreme savings in recent years, I think this is actually a relative evidence of poverty. There are a few things I will mention positively, but a big educational turnaround is certainly not that. The positive things you can mention are – yes –: Teacher reduction in compulsory schooling is stopped, is not continued to this extent. What we have long called for to use the decline in students for quality improvement is happening in the compulsory school sector at least by reducing the maximum number of students. However, the maximum number of students in the AHS area should also be reduced. I am still saying this with a certain amount of caution, because the budget unfortunately does not agree with the information you have made on several occasions, even with the figures. If I take the budget seriously, I have to say: There will be much less additional teacher posts than you told us. If you can exceed the budget and the Minister of Finance says: Okay, let's spend more! Then there will be the teachers' posts. It is only difficult not to really know what we are talking about in a budget debate. When you look into the site plan, you see: It becomes relatively adventurous, because of the 400 AHS posts there only 150 are included. It may be that there will be more. We'll know when the next or next school year is over. Then we'll see. But I suspect that you have adapted the establishment plan to what the real development should be. That is obviously not the case. And so there are some sort of ambiguities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] – Whether it happens or not, Mr Niederwieser, we will see. The student grants are increased. - Yes! If you look at the explanations, there is: This is a significant compensation for the loss of value in recent years, since 1999 aid has not been increased. Now they are increased, pleasing, but probably too little to speak here of a big turn. But now I want to address what is not in this budget. The Government Convention read as follows: Lower the school's maximum to 25 in all school types. – This is not included in the budget. Mr Amon, who is not here now, has asked the Committee why the highest number of students is not being reduced in the higher schools – a particularly interesting statement, because the budget was also set in the Government Convention and was absolutely clear that this could not happen. So: No reduction in the maximum number of students in the AHS upper level, no reduction in the higher education schools and in the secondary vocational education schools; for all students older than 15 who have completed the compulsory education, nothing changes in de facto terms. There you have to say that this was something you promised, but that will not be implemented. Second point: Language promotion. It will be particularly interesting, because this is very common in Sunday's speeches, especially the indication that children with non-German mother tongue – I would say – should actually make more of those who still have shortcomings in German. - Yes! Absolute confession to that. By the way, this does not start in school, but should clearly start earlier, namely in kindergarten. There is the ominous project that Mrs Gehrer left there as a legacy: 80 € per child funding for a language course. I don't know if you looked at how it works in kindergartens. We know it works in the back and in the front. This language promotion, which is offered here, is hardly implemented in reality. There are hardly any kindergartens that really offer it. There's no training for that. And 80 € per child – you have to let it break down on the tongue – are 640 000 € for the whole of Austria for the project “Language promotion in front of the school”. 640,000 €! That's a post per federal country. And with this the promotion of language for all those who have language deficits in German?- Oh, my God! I do not find any changes to the government agreement or to the budget. That's clearly too little. Third point: Reform of teacher training. – I have already heard this morning that the representation arrangement between you, Mrs. Schmied, and Minister Hahn works very smoothly and you cooperate well. But – you already have to let that go on the tongue –: Now there have been educational universities since 2007. - So what? Where are the educational colleges located, in which place: in the science resort or in the classroom? - Right! In the classroom. What we criticized at the time is that this is a label gap and not a real university, has apparently been confirmed by the department allocation. That's how it's now argued to keep it there. This is particularly interesting, of course, if you discuss projects of a common school, because a common teacher training is probably a fundamental idea if something is to be changed here. Teacher training remains structurally separate, the ten- to fourteen-year-olds still receive teachers who are trained in two different categories, one at universities, the other at so-called pedagogical universities, who, as colleague Niederwieser emphasizes in each panel discussion, should not actually fulfil the character of universities, and thus logically belong to the classroom. This is not a forward-looking development. Fourth point: Support teachers. – It’s true – and that’s something I want to point out again: As pleased as it is to reduce the number of students, the quality in schools alone will be improved to a certain extent, but will certainly not rise sufficiently. There is still another way to do this, because it will hardly be possible with 25 students in the class to go to each and give sufficient support to those who have problems. We leave the field of support teachers exactly as he is, namely, unsatisfyingly solved. – When I look at the Finnish model, where every tenth teacher/each tenth teacher is at a folk school, at a primary school, trained support teacher/trained support teacher – who does not teach in the classes that are in addition there: they support the class teachers! – then I have to say: That's a model where we should go! – and this isn't even going in the right direction. This brings me to the last point, which is already included, the common school – there was an interesting debate about it in the last few days –: It is important to us in the idea of the common school – so, I think it is very positive that apparently in some ÖVP country organisations the scams are collected; perhaps you can send someone to Vienna, who also passes by the Federal Party and makes such a collection there, that would be pleasing – to create socially fairer schools in Austria, to reduce the dependence on the parents' home. This can be achieved through a common school in a good form. Only one shouldn't be... – It needs better schools, exactly. [[Abg. May. Hakl: It needs better schools!]] Tell Mrs Gehrer, once you meet her on the excursions that you may make together that the ÖVP demands better schools. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, these common schools must also be run together, that is to say, the change and the move. [[Abg. May. Hakl:... centralist scaffolding!]] I do not think it is necessary to make projects here that do not fulfil the core criterion, namely that de facto all students of a region – with different funding, with individual funding – go to this school, because, as has been announced from Carinthia, individual schools lead individual classes as common schools. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger:... Rape of the German language!]] I would almost say that these are not common schools, but common classes. It can't be! On this basis, the model of a common school will not be evaluated either: I don't know what to evaluate if I just exchange the door sign at a school. That's why this isn't a common school yet! I find Vienna very positive. Vienna has pledged a comprehensive introduction for 2009/2010 – at least in the initial announcements. By the way, it is probably the easiest thing to do in Vienna, because, as we know, 70 percent are now going to the AHS sub-level and only 30 percent are still visiting another school type. – There, this model was the easiest to implement. In order to see whether what the Minister of Education has announced is also shared by the SPÖ Group – and I think it is very relevant – I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We will see, next Thursday, when we vote, whether the SPÖ Group will vote in favour. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't worry, we know what...!]] – Yes, I know you are always doing everything without you deciding something in Parliament, and then the exact opposite happens after that! The "coalition" reason is over there. [[The speaker points towards ÖVP.]] You can consider whether in these cases you also say: The ÖVP does not leave us! or whether you do what They have promised for years, also in Parliament, to say: Let's go! . I will be very careful to see who jumps over his shadows and whether what we have wanted to do together for years is supported here by the Socialist Group. – I very much hope so.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39066	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39117	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you are aware of the provisions: 2 minutes of speaking time, first of all the corrective situation, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39141	Good morning! In short, but it must be: Mr Brosz has said that I would have always talked about a 10-percent increase in the educational budget – that is probably the budget chapter that Mrs Bundesminister Schmied has to answer. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There's no one talking yet, and he's correcting! But that is not an actual correction!]] I'll put it right: I have always talked about a 10-percent increase in the university budget – this is a budget that Minister Hahn is responsible for.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39179	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Decliner. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39208	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Today, we have a focus on the programme of this federal government or, in fact, on several priorities, which are today on the agenda for education, science and social affairs, starting with what is most important to many of us, namely with education. The expectations are very high; Mr Brosz has just shown us this impressively. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Well, “impressive ” can be removed!]] – Mr Brosz was modest, because the list of what we still want to do is a little longer than he presented it, but it is not all already in the first half of the legislative period, which is known to last four years! And then everything that has been listed today and which is not yet inside will also be done. You have to be able to stay there for a while! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are in a very good way to make a point of what is contained in the Coalition Agreement. I would now like to focus on a number of points in view of the 7 minutes limit on speaking time, namely those points which are reflected under the term ‘education path’ in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. We have a very good problem analysis in the form of the final report of the Future Commission. I am very glad that their head, Professor Haider, is now also sitting in the boat again and that Austrian education policy in school development is consulting together with other scientists. The most important thing, Mr Brosz, is not money, but the most important thing that children and young people need is more time, more time, more money for each student, for the individual student. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's right!]] And this is because in the classes there are fewer children per individual teacher, per individual teacher, that the classes are reduced and that, when it comes to division numbers, the groups are also reduced. We start here with the first classes in compulsory schools. We don't have the middle and higher schools on the list yet, and I'd wish you much luck this autumn! In view of the space capacity to say: We lower to 25, and then we can... – Well, please, until autumn you can probably increase these space capacities hard, that would be illusory! [[Abg. Brosz: Budget! Budget!]] [[Abg. Brosz:... resources!]] [[Abg. Brosz:...but money...!]] And you knew that yourself, because in your request you see these things so differentiated – and today you come out and demand the complete opposite of them. Smaller classes, fewer children in groups for teaching. This is an aspect that means more time. The expansion of all day schools means more time for children and, ultimately, also funding in the special educational field, in integration and in the ninth school level, where classes are now also shared in German lessons, in order to be able to design German teaching in smaller groups in this somewhat difficult situation such as vocational middle schools with many students. – This is a plus of quality; a plus that benefits the quality of the education system and thus the future of our children. But in addition to the approach that there is more time, we have also budgeted significantly more resources. – No question, if you asked me as an educational politician, I still knew a lot about what we needed! And I think that the Minister would also have no problem investing a further €100 million. But we have a total framework to meet and try to make the most of it. Today € 50 million more and next year € 145 million more under the title “Education path” are a significant improvement! They are a trend change in what has so far been common in education policy. Then: There are significantly fewer pupils and still more teachers and more resources for education and school. We thus resolve one of our promises that Alfred Gusenbauer has repeatedly given to us.We will benefit from the decline in the number of students to increase the quality in schools. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There is no such thing as that!]] – I emphasize: To increase quality in schools! [[Abg. Neugebauer: It's already so high! An increase is not possible!]] Yes, if I look at you, Mr Westenthaler, I would almost agree that you are right, but there are also more hopeful cases. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and accompaniment of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] – This increase in student support has clearly been achieved, where a significant increase has been made since 1999. But there is also more dynamics in education as a whole, and it is bubbling again. There are again a lot of new ideas – sometimes almost too many – to deal with all of this. Overall, there is clearly a mood of departure, there are proposals. Proposals and criticisms are no longer annoyed, they are expressly desired by us. In this way, we can deal very well with the criticism of the Greens and others. The reformist has also captured many people in our coalition partner. Dr. Schüssel, if I had read it a month ago, I would not have thought it possible: There someone says that when school competence is changed, the overall school of the ten to fourteen years old is a goal, but with an internal differentiation. In a way, Catholic boarding schools are also a combination of total and all day school. – Completely right! That's what the Tyrolean head of state van Staa said, and you can see how strongly this mood of departure has also captured our coalition partner. A certain deideologicalization of this subject is also important. Mr Brosz, if you think in relation to today's request that we should now decide between Mrs Minister and our coalition partner, this is a great mistake. Of course, as a Socialist Group, we are unconditionally behind our Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied, but she says on her part that she cannot live without the coalition partner and needs the colleague Neugebauer. And so it will happen. We will tackle this great project of a common school together. It would make no sense to force it to fail in such a big project. But we're on a good path. It's a mood of departure, it's spitting into the hands again. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and ÖVP.]] You know this song. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Presentations!]] I'd like to change it a little: Now we are being spit into our hands again, we are increasing the educational social product. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39380	Mr Graf. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 10 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39401	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! After everyone spit into their hands – this is an early morning exercise so that everyone wakes up – I want to introduce my speech to education policy with three theses. - Thank you, everybody's taking care of it again. Thesis one: Our differentiated school system is not as bad as it is always spoken. [[Complementary with FPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ.]] – In addition: There are clearly problem zones and problem areas, no question. That's where we have to sit. Thesis two: Our children like to go to school. – Add-on: At least in the beginning, as children. [[Abg. Gaál: Only in elementary school!]] These three: Teachers are highly motivated, at least when they enter the profession. From this one can now draw a conclusion thesis: Why are children, after a few years of schooling, and teachers, after a few years of service, often not highly motivated? Then why don't children like to go to school? Then why are parents desperate and similar more? Perhaps the cause is that in the past decades the school system – ideologically motivated – has been much too provisionally doctored around! [[Abg. Strache: Experimental object human!]] A school attempt here, a second school attempt there, a third school attempt, you can decide again – already for the five-year-olds! The parents are in this phase in a relative stress – I know from their own experience – when they suddenly need to vote for their five-year-old child in open vote in the presence of the director and the teacher on school trials they are hardly informed about. This is then called co-determination on school attempts, which is often only used for the purpose of teacher recruitment policy. It is often ignored that children must be at the centre of attention. We have problems in the school sector, that is not a question, but in part these are different regionally, in terms of school equipment and much more different. The two resources children and teachers, if you can say so, are basically fine, but we do nothing or too little of it. We politicians have some theses – but how can we really improve the framework conditions for children, teachers and parents, and how can we better deal with the time resource of our children and young people? How do we do that? What framework conditions do we create here? There must be offers on a voluntary basis, there must be no compulsory offers, as is the case in the individual ideologised programmes. As a Freedom Party, we reject an overall school, saying that we have to think about offers towards all day school, childcare and the like. The times have changed and the challenges with them. We face the huge problem of structural illiteracy in Austria – and almost all over Europe – which affects 700 000 people in this country. What does structural illiteracy mean? – This is when people are unable to think in related sequences, for example – in order to illustrate it – to follow a radio news broadcast. This is a problem that we have to deal with not only in primary school but also in the field of lifelong learning. We are training children for professions that may no longer exist in five, ten or fifteen years. In these areas, we need to change. Language problems exist in Austria not only in children with non-German mother tongues – especially in the agglomerations there are separate problems – but often also in children with German mother tongues. Children are often left alone, which often has to do with the income situation of their parents. The children sit in front of the computers, no longer play, have not learned to play and are basically no more children, as we imagine them to be ideal. That's where we have to go! Our debate about an overall school or a common school or a full day school or the like will not change anything about these problems. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I think we have to start substantially conveying values such as performance to our children. How do I make performance measurable? – I don’t know a five-year-old child who goes to school who doesn’t want to be confident, happy and sympathetic for the school in his performance. But then that is really not offered. I believe that values such as sense of responsibility, sense of duty, discipline and the like have too little importance in today's school system. And it's not a question of money. The question is often: How do we strengthen the teachers who bring up our children so that they can contribute something better for our children? Mrs Minister, I know – and this has already been said by Mr Niederwieser today – that it takes time in the educational discussion, not only in the discussion, but also in the changeover. That's what every government says when it re-enters, or any opposition when it comes to the government. But you have promised something else, Mr President, you have said that you will immediately implement it. In part, you start with it, but I think you have to start a process that actually has an overall reform with a legally binding character for our parents, children and teachers on the content, instead of constantly just being around, you have to introduce something new in another federal country again and again, without having the whole in mind. We must stop pressing our children into a trial and trial field, just as it is done. We need to give our children the opportunity to experience childhood again, and to train our young people to become responsible people. For this to happen, we need teachers who are motivated, not only in the early years of their work, but throughout the time. We need a slimmed-down administration device, not a question. We need to consider whether the obligation to hold a school is essentially the same as it is today. The state reform is in there. These are very important moments, which cannot be struck short-term via a performance, but we really have to consider a proper concept for the benefit of our children in the future. And that's not about the whole school, because when we start the entire school, what is it, what have you improved with it – except that you, with compulsion, as perhaps in former Communism, are even more alienating the children from the parents? This is not our education policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want to stick to differentiated education, improved with legal certainty and enriched value structures!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39487	Next, Mr Neugebauer. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39508	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear ladies and gentlemen! – Mr Dr. Niederwieser, we have worked very constructive, very purpose-oriented and result-oriented after some difficulties in our discussions on the completion of an educational programme. And we actually wrote something into the Preamble to which the learned Vienna “no na!” would say, namely: Children and young people must be at the heart of all forward-looking measures! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In view of the current debate, I doubt whether some have understood it. In addition to the high-quality educational opportunities, we have also postulated the choice of parents for the educational path of their children – and that was courageous because the financial group has not yet spoken –: In order to improve the quality of education in Austria and ensure sustainable, public education expenditure should be increased. I congratulate Mrs. Federal Minister for having succeeded in postulating what we have postulated from the pedagogical point of view, together with the Minister of Finance Mag. To implement Molterer accordingly. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The reduction in school numbers and the movement of other group sizes up to the 9th century. School level, where we have the highest dropout rate, is coming, and it will also come by law. I'm not worried at all. We'll be the peda- To promote the gog­isation of kindergartens. Day care is extended. Mr Brosz, that's nothing: 400 plans! The Chamber of Labour has always called for very critical access to an area of 100,000 care places. This means that, if the number is correct, 94 796 can already be offered for those who need it. Other priorities: Special pedagogical support needs, the large project of the educational universities. In particular, we have put particular emphasis on quality assurance, education standards, so that we pay particular attention to the conditions of the internal school business. Ladies and gentlemen, we are based on a school system that knows a strong external and internal differentiation: external differentiation in the offer of different types of schools and internal differentiation in group sizes, in divisional numbers and in performance differentiation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So much so you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have done this first part perfectly, so much so that you have actually caused a disturbance by throwing the term 'total school' into the debate without mentioning a concept for it. Do you mean a differentiated total school? Do you mean a total additive school? Do you mean an integrated total school? Do you mean the project in Vienna, the middle school? Whoever proposes a project should also tell the organization to do so, should also bring all the framework conditions to an objective assessment accordingly! You elected Dr. Haider as an advisor, Mrs. Minister. I mean, not the "South Haider" and not the "Nord-Haider", but Dr. Haider from Salzburg, who wrote recently: Total school means that's the only offer in school! If you follow this counsellor, Mrs. Federal Minister, then remove the good primary school in the rural area, then remove the long form of the gymnasium, then eliminate special education, then you will abolish all private schools and then remove the alternative schools – Steiner-Schulen, Montessori-Schulen – from! I would like to keep you from going into the history of the Ministry of Education as an abduction minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We should not land with Roda Roda, who once said: Discussions in the broad circle are breaking down into two parts: the first is mispronounced, and the second misunderstands it! Clear messages are necessary in education policy, and I think that what we have postulated is very, very important! And you have done this perfectly in the example of school autonomous days, because taking the school partners into responsibility is also important when it comes to putting on appropriate school tests. School partners are important! I'm influenced by two statements. Paul Correspondent says – perhaps overlaid, but there's something true about it –: We must not cause the parents to snut the children in the early morning and camped to pass to the state and get ready for bed in the evening! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP as well as with the representatives of the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Parents have an obligation! Willi Molterer once said this: Earlier, when a student came home with a five, the student had a problem – today the teacher has one! Do you see a little indifference to what common responsibility is? – We teachers need the help and participation of parents, and we also, Erwin, as a project to be promoted accordingly. Whoever was active in education knows why we are doing smaller classes, why we are making smaller groups. Because the promotion of students in terms of their performance in a more homogeneous group – which is scientifically proven to be a hundredfold – works much better than in a very wide range of an undifferentiated total school, where the powerful ones are hopelessly under- and the weaker ones are hopelessly overwhelmed. This differentiated offer in the external and internal school business secures us from that. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany will not give his child to an elite school in Vienna for any reason of prestige, or Mr. Dr. Cap – I understand everything, is no one to blame, the offer and this freedom of choice is thank God. Only: If Mrs. Laska's vice-president calls for the comprehensive introduction of the entire school and her child's successful visit to a leading gymnasium, this is not consistent. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I would like to thank all the educators who work in different, difficult situations for our youth, and invite everyone to work on the development of youth in the debate with the culture that surrounds them. Ladies and gentlemen! Now nature flourishes, diverse and colorful. And the educational landscape in Austria is not grey, but it will also be colorful in the future. Here you, Mrs. Federal Minister, have our support. – Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39678	Next, Mrs Ursula Haubner spoke with a welcome speech of 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39703	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The word future is very often used especially in education, as is the case with families. This is right and good, because structural change in the working and working world and a change in social life have widened over the last few years, and this also requires schooling and education to respond to new challenges. We from BZÖ see school as a very comprehensive centre of competence, where young people, in which children and young people are trained as value-oriented personalities with very individually funded talents and potentials and can also grow up, can be said to be made fit for the future. Austria, with its differentiated Austrian school system, is based on a very good tradition, but there must nevertheless be no stoppage. A number of important steps have been taken in the last legislative period. I am thinking only of the abolition of the two-thirds majority in order to be able to implement education policy projects more quickly and efficiently, at first steps in the field of early language. The Commission will be – Mr Brosz, I would not call it ominous tickets, but as a first project to get right here and give the parents opportunities; this needs to be further developed, not a question. And it has partly been very, very successful, especially in urban space. Or I am thinking of the introduction of the five-day week, the expansion of day care, the expansion of gift promotion and much more. In the autumn of 2006, there was an application for the first time to reduce the number of students to 25 of the government parties at that time. Now this request, which is also being made by Parliament, is to be implemented by you, Mrs Federal Minister. That's good, that's positive, just, it has a beauty error, in the direction that it concerns only the first classes of compulsory schooling, and not the schools where the number of students and students is much higher and where they are also ascending, such as in the AHS area and in the BHS area. Unfortunately, I say, only 16 percent of pupils will benefit from this 25 rule. What is basically positive is that the number of those who have made an education in a teaching profession, the young teacher who is on the waiting list and now gets a job. How many it really is, Mrs. Federal Minister, if it is 1,500, if it is 960, that remains, I think, your secret. Perhaps you can tell us today how many it really is. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned today: Children have fewer and less opportunities to express themselves differently, unfortunately children today have an ever smaller vocabulary and also lack of German knowledge. Therefore, for us from the BZÖ, the school entrance phase – which also includes the last kindergarten year – is particularly important in order to promote and train children with language deficits and with a view to learning the German language, to give them the same opportunities as those who are already much more important. It is therefore important, I believe, to define a clear preschool offer and a clear strategy here. I can't see this right now, Mrs Federal Minister. The pre-school year, the school year is very nebulos in the government programme, and I therefore make the following request on behalf of Mr Haubner and Mr Westenthal: [[Quoted print version removed]] A second area, ladies and gentlemen, which is very important to us from the BZÖ: that all young people have completed their education and training programmes. They also have the opportunity to continue their training later. Professional vocational training is becoming increasingly important, and today it is like this: The ninth school year offers about ten possibilities: You can go to the polytechnic, you can visit a first class of a building gymnasium, you can go to the BHS. So here there are different possibilities with more or less orientation. And what the negative is: Students who attend such a first class are then officially considered to be school dropouts. There is still much to be done here, I think, that especially those who are very practical in learning can also qualify their vocational training on teaching. I pointed out yesterday in the discussion on the chapter Work that teaching with Matura is a very important alternative to purely schooling. Therefore, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude a few words on the current subject, on the discussion of the common school. I believe that a future-proof school system must leave ideologically fixed rails and thus overcome created barriers. I think the discussion about the common school is a good one if it is conducted intensively. One must and should talk about it and act, but one should act consciously: in model regions, in well-prepared regions without hecticism and chaos. Much remains to be explained: How do we deal with the school partnership? This is not currently included in any way. How are parents involved in these models? Therefore, I hold and do not keep the BZÖ from the SPÖ Vienna proposal to introduce a so-called general school from 2009 onwards. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We must first deal with the appropriate tests that need to be prepared well. I therefore ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, not to leave chaos and hustle and bustle free, but to take professionally oriented action. We from the BZÖ basically stand in school for a performance-oriented and internal differentiation, which recognizes the talents, but which also supports those who have special needs accordingly. A lot, some speak for a common school, especially in the last school year, where the possibility of intensive Occupational orientation is given. Much argues that the decision should not be made by the tenth year of life, but later. That is why a good discussion has to be held here, and you have to look carefully at where the attempts are being made. I very much welcome the fact that rural regions as well as Carinthia also come to the train. For us from the BZÖ, ladies and gentlemen, young people are at the centre of their rights to successful learning, and learning must begin where the children, where the young people are, should be encouraged in accordance with their abilities, but above all, also called for. It is also important for us that not the same thing is offered to everyone, but the best for our youth, and that is the great challenge. It needs diversity, it needs far-sightedness, it needs competence, it needs motivated teachers, but above all parents who are more aware of their responsibilities and who can also exercise their rights. And above all: Let's all take off the ideological glasses! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39851	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ing. Peter Westenthalerand colleagues, on the one hand with regard to the preparation of a national education plan and on the other hand with regard to free professional ageing, are sufficiently supported, have been properly introduced and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39953	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e39975	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am delighted, Mrs Haubner, that your comment is ‘fit for the future’. This is precisely what education policy is all about. This is a major concern, as there are many common objectives and many measures that we can achieve together. Education policy is social policy. However, education policy is also part of economic policy because it concerns more jobs, but above all because it concerns better jobs. I therefore think it is so important to think about education, innovation and economic growth, which is also the economic aspect. It is not just about the development of the future of our children, but about all of us, because especially in the dynamics of the 21st century. Education is a life-long task. In the centre of my educational work, in the center of my motivation lies the promotion of talents and talents, because I am borne by the consciousness that excellence needs a broad basis. We cannot afford to give up gifts and talents economically and socially, and we have the social policy mission to deal with disadvantages and weaknesses carefully. These are the parameters for Austrian education policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In close cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, it has succeeded in addressing the major project of reducing the number of school students. It is about more funding, the promotion of the children, the students, the students. We've got this project on the 2nd. ==References== We have decided to implement it on the instrument of allocation of needs. This is the key so that we can start this turn in education policy at the beginning of the 2007/2008 school year. This means investing in the education system, i.e. new teachers. A system, a society, an institution that flows into energy, is equipped with passion and motivation inside. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Graf, you have addressed the subject of values specifically. This is with a key in education, the training of pupils. Especially in social competence, didactics, but also political education, mediating democratic understanding is a key to the future development of our society. Therefore, in addition to many other projects, we have launched the project “Political Education and Democracy Development” as a joint project and place great emphasis on it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Allow me a few words on the subject of common school. I am very pleased that the debate over the party borders is being held. I speak to many who are responsible for education policy. With many countries I have already been able to lead to discussions on educational policy issues by the Heads of State or Government. I am pleased that the federal states are taking up the ball to discuss the fact that movement and dynamics are coming into the educational debate. At least one point seems clear, and we have experienced this just in the last few weeks when we transition from primary school to primary school, to AHS: The decision at the age of nine and a half years, depending perhaps on a threesome in the witness, is a decision that is indicative of the development of the students, this decision is clearly too early! We cannot afford to give up gifts and talents! [[Congratulation with the SPÖ, the Green and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] That is why I am pleased about the broad discussion that is going on across the party borders. And I can assure you that I am dedicated to this issue with utmost care and preparation. The next steps are concrete: I commissioned my house two days ago to develop criteria for the model regions. It is essential and crucial that there are pedagogical concepts. Individualization and differentiation are very important, because how else do we want to promote and demand gifts and talents? So, of course, internal differentiation and individualization as part of this model concept. We need to find motivated teachers who work with passion on this project. And as agreed in the coalition programme, we will set up an expert commission before the summer, also internationally, but above all interdisciplinaryly. Then we have the three cornerstones, namely: Expert commission, model cases starting in 2008/2009, and scientific support. It's clear to me that: If this school is a success if we manage to give more children opportunities, then if we manage to convince as many people as possible of this project. That is, communication and information are a very central element. But above all, this project must meet the education standards and ensure good training. Then we don't need to order anything, the students will stream into this new school, and the parents will be happy when there are these. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40066	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40087	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Minister, it is a relief and there is hope to hear your concerns about an early school reading at the age of nine and a half years, because as we all know here, it is actually a social selection. I am very pleased that steps are really being taken here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me have some thoughts on art and culture. What have we been able to read in the newspapers in recent days about the field of art and culture budget: The too little increase in the Bundestheater-Bassisbebebention testifies to an arrogance of power that is unbearable, according to the divorced State Opera Director. The budget is a document of the Fiascos, according to the former State Secretary, whose severe heritage has taken over Minister Schmied. The disappearance of cultural policy is the site of the Director of the Art History Museum. And from the green side, you even think you're going to see a continuation of the blue-black course. A better understanding of these statements may contribute to a look at the motivation of the respective protagonists. – I would like to take a closer look at the comment made by the former Secretary of State for Art. The Fiasco, which he spoke of, began on 4 October. ==References== You, Mr Morak, would have been in the hands of you over the past seven years to ensure that the very large financing needs now exist are not so huge, but you have obviously not been able to do so. First of all, let me keep the facts: There is a trend in cultural expenditure. These rise, although not to the extent that I personally wish, that for art and culture 1 percent of GDP is available. But the €228.4 million for 2007 and the €231.9 million for 2008 are more than previously available, and this is a signal, ladies and gentlemen, for a change in the previous financing rate. The medium-term objective is to increase this cultural budget and bring it from around 0.6 percent of the last years to 1 percent of the gross domestic product. The budget negotiations were difficult for Minister Claudia Schmied. We do not want to forget, and we cannot forget, in what financial, but also atmospheric, state large parts of the culture have been found after the last seven years, at all corners and ends there is no such thing. Although it has been mentioned in all government programmes since 2000, the commitment to art and culture has not really been manifested in hard euros. And the great tankers of the cultural nation of Austria have been as affected by financial distress as the free scene in the last seven years. But I would like to come to the Pragmatic briefly from the financial situation. The projects contained in the government programme are, in some way, the cultural menu of the next four years, the basis of our activities. On the one hand, these are the development of solutions to problems, such as in the area of museum policy, social security for artists or in issues of financing. On the other hand, our programme also includes a number of innovative projects and is therefore clearly different from the last programmes. For example, cultural education and cultural participation are issues. The focus of the next few years is on questions such as: How does the individual or the individual gain better access to art and culture? What areas do parents' or school placements need to be supplemented, especially in the field of remote shifts? What support do art pedagogues and art pedagogues need in schools? And how can the subcultures of young people be supported and promoted? Or maybe there are best-practice examples in other countries that you should look at. A little less excited than budget heights and a little more programmematics and cultural debates beyond the financial aspect would be necessary, and we would do quite well. And for the realization of projects that are at our heart, we will seek and find additional funding in the next few years. I hope the support of all of you, ladies and gentlemen, because I think art and culture should be your concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40166	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. Desirable time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40187	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Culture and art are undoubtedly the losers of the current financial policy, and there is no way to go, and there is nothing to be used by the social democrats at all. I have repeatedly drawn attention to this and have been able to present it in many examples in the committees, but also here in plenary. The disappointment about social democracy is double: Firstly, it did not prevail in the government negotiations, and secondly, in the budgetary negotiations. But after all, an advantage has such a low budget: You can see very well how the distribution looks. If the cake is big enough that everyone gets full, nobody cares who's got too much. But the moment the cake is very small and nobody gets full, everyone sees exactly who gets something. And then also the intention, the intention behind the distribution, shows who is held harmless and who pays for it. When the budget is distributed, it becomes clear that nothing has changed since the last seven years and that the course is being continued, as if it were still a black and blue coalition. You can show and see this very beautifully using the cultural budget. And that is actually the disappointment that social democracy leaves behind: not the missing money, but this course. When we remember Sinowatz, when we remember Scholten, also climate, Hawlicek, there was always a special attention for the cultural creators. It was always the case that the current cultural initiatives were promoted and the representation culture was taken back a little bit. But now, exactly this bourgeois representation cult is going to be, I can almost say, continuing with all the waste that is associated with it. Let me add another example – I have already listed some – because this is so exemplary: the Museum of Art. In 2001 the reconstruction of the National History Museum began. For this purpose, €9.8 million has already been valorised, i.e. valued, estimated, and this spring this museum of folklore should have been opened. That's even said – two weeks ago I saw it, I don't know if it's still on it – on the homepage of the National History Museum. But I don't know if any of you have experienced this opening. I didn't see her. In response to our written request, when this museum of folklore is now being opened, we receive the answer: A date is not yet fixed. But for this there is an additional €5 million in the budget. That is, the conversion is not only not complete, but it obviously needs more money in the next few years. The S & D of the S & D was fomented by Dr. Seipel's squandering, and that's exactly Dr. Seipel's director of the Museum of People's History, who is now almost €5 million in revenge. Small detail on the edge: Next year, an exhibition on Karl the Kühne will be opened in this museum of folklore. On our written request, which Karl der Kühne has to do with ethnology, we receive the answer that the reconstruction would be so planned that the Kunsthistorische Museum can also make its exhibitions there. That is exactly what we – and also the Social Democracy – criticized at the time when Dr. Seipel absolutely wanted to include the Museum of Art in his empire, since we said that is an extension of the Art History Museum. And that's exactly what we're experiencing now. No one is interested in the violation of the autonomy, which is laid down by law, of the Museum of National History. Since we are already at the Museum of National History: There is a funny detail in the cultural report: The Volkskundemuseum lists 40,000 visitors for 2004. Now you have to know that in 2004 – I mentioned it earlier – the National History Museum was completely closed for conversion. How can 40,000 visitors go to a closed museum? And that's exactly what I've been criticizing for years in the face of wastefulness and lack of control over the museums. Everything continues as it was, there is no change at all. No one notices that at all! No one except us notices that there are very strange figures in there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does the museum say about it?]] I could bring many more examples, Mr Cap, I miss the time. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What does the museum actually say about it?]] Please, if I make a written request and get such answers, then this is a continuation... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is the reason? Where did the 40,000 go?]] I don't know! I didn't get a reply to that! I have to explain where the 40 000 went.- Oh, my God! I don't even know if they entered at the back entrance or at the front. They're both closed. So I don't even know myself. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Maybe they're still inside!]] If there are too few examples for you, I could give you some examples, for example, to a traffic museum: A further € 4.5 million is planned for a transport museum to be built right next to the Technical Museum. – Ladies and gentlemen! We know that €8.5 million has already been placed in the sand there, because a traffic museum was planned – by the BIG back then – and then became an IMAX cinema, which has gone well, with the result that there is now a ruin. Now we have another 4.5 million, a traffic museum is planned again. I don't know if that's going to be put back in the sand, I can't predict it now. But it is built, built, built – and at the same time there is an entire cultural landscape. Mr Cap, that's not exaggerating. Thousands of artists are below the poverty line and do not know what to live on tomorrow. That can't be a social democratic manuscript! The only thing that was saved more or less in the government negotiations on the part of the SPÖ was that it was an entry-free day for the federal museums. – Very nice, we were very excited. Now I hear from Mrs Minister in the Committee that she is very skeptical about this and that perhaps this is not done because then tourists and tourists cannot be asked to check out. The State does not want to miss out on this revenue. Is it so-called "social democratic" that people's levels of income and education are not able to access museums because they otherwise lose a few thousand euros from tourists? – Mrs Minister, I could now predict that this is not at all true; the English, American and Scandinavian examples give me the right to do so. That's quite different anyway. I am missing the Social Democratic manuscript, and I also lack a statement – I can now ask you: Will there be this entry-free day once a month, and if so, when? This must also be fixed once it is already in the government programme. I would also ask you to take a public position in connection with the play of the Augarten at some point. There is the difference between a construction project of the singer boys and a construction project of film culture. We all know you have a lot of decision-making skills here. You know, I know, the cultural scene knows. When to Become They clearly take a position and a social-democratic... – what does “social-democratic” manuscript mean? - That I don't laugh!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40300	The next item is the speech by Mr Morak. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40321	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear colleague Zinggl, you are usually always for the inappropriate, the modern, the blocked, the wild and so on – and here you talk exclusively of museums and of Seiel. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I've been following the entire budget debate for the fourth day, and I have the feeling that the temperament of the green clubman lies over the whole house: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Impressive!]] “Sleeve brother”! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Where's the opposition? – I know that Cap and I can do this better, but please a little bit of courage: [[Calls for Greens]] Step ahead and say what is in your heart! Please! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes I feel like it's going to be a little bit when ollinger comes to the speaker's desk and confuses this Rostra with a barricade – that's all right, yes – and for the downtrodden, the afflicted, the burdened and the loaded, but I also know – I already know the oillinger very, very long – it's also possible for him to make a social case out of Roman Abramovich. [[Green call for tender]] [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, in turn of a quote from the wonderful Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser, I now say: The day begins with a good budget! – And of course this is the cultural budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] The day begins with a good budget – of course not, I also say that if you follow what honourable Members Muttonen said during the election movement, we will triple, quadruple, multiply the budget. [[Abg. May. Muttonen: I don't know what newspapers you read!]] Milk and honey will flow. - All these things have been fun, Mrs. Muttonen! Of course not if you measure that by the demands of the Greens. But if we meet in reality, so here in the House, I have to say: We have a good budget, with which we can manage well and build a lot on. Because that also pleased: a document from the Fiascos. – I mean this here: the budget issue. Ladies and gentlemen! If I look at this, I don't mean that the budget is a fiasco, but like it has been prepared here in this budget issue. Under the approach 1/13016, number 7679, from 900 onwards, I read a halving of the budget at the theatre of youth, at the Vienna Konzerthausgesellschaft, at Arnold Schönberg Society and so on, even at the IG Freie Theaterbeit. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] Step back a piece of yourself and imagine that Westenthaler would have become Minister of Culture or Stadler or any other. [[Abg. Dr. Rada: I'm afraid!]] Believe me, so many Thursdays a year would not have been able to protest about it! That's why I mean: It is a document of the Fiascos! And I would ask you to check with your officials once, but also in your cabinet, what's going on there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] This, of course, starts with the electronic act, so get used to your officials for doing so. I was at the opening of Art Fair, Viennafair. That's where the gallerists meet me and say that the gallery promotion will be shortened. [[Calls to the Greens.]] I want to take this a little seriously, just because I think that has great tradition. It started by that Rudolf Scholten introduced it; I think that was something good he did there. As always in Austria, it is so that you first distinguish the gallerists, and then it suddenly becomes a general promotion – and then it is suddenly the casting pot. We changed this and we said: A connex should take place with the museums on the one hand, with the artists and the art market. I think if you go down there – that would be, I think, a good idea – and once you see what is happening there, you will see that this signal of the Republic has caused a lot of good in this area and has also given the gallerists new courage. I would ask you that we deal with the promotion of the fair just as carefully, but also – I say so too, because that is basically a very crucial question – with the Bundestheaters, and here in particular also with the Vienna State Opera. I say this quite consciously, because completely indifferent, at which point of this planet you come, if you know something and know of us, then it is the Philharmonic, the Vienna State Opera and that you can ski here. Ladies and gentlemen! In this snow situation we will soon no longer ski, but we will only have the state opera and the Philharmonic. And that's why I think you should be careful about them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let me conclude by saying one more point, simply because I once came out of a national cultural conference and the then president, Mr. Pühringer, said: [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: A good man!]] Look, Mr State Secretary, it can't be that you unload 300 million, 400 million, 500 million Schilling – at the time Schilling – in Vienna and 27 million in Upper Austria. It can't really be! [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In this sense I believe: It is every cultural artist, it is every musician, it is every filmmaker in this country, whether he is in Vienna, in Neusiedl, in St. Pölten or in Bregenz, the Republic and that country equally much worth. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40486	The next item is the speech by Mr Kickl. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40507	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the President-in-Office of the Council. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You didn't watch!]] We know that the Philharmonic will be there of course. But whether they will play where they are playing now is a question in view of the budget. You only need to look at those who are responsible for it and, for example, to have the discussion in the State Opera you have just spoken about. And it doesn't look so rosy if all the musicians want to withdraw and thus endanger the export item number one massively. If you look at this budget debate all week long, the question arises again and again: What is actually the criterion for quality or for non-quality, for assessment? What's the scale? – One of them is desperate looking for some red manuscript, and the others are pleased that they see only black in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in a happier position, because for us there is a scale, and the standard is what the citizens have expected, what the people here expect of this House, and also of those who go with full-bodied announcements in government negotiations. That's the criterion! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There we are not in the unfortunate situation like you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and of the SPÖ, that you have to speak everything up; sometimes it stops despite the standstill agreement which you have clearly agreed to, then through and dissatisfaction breaks out as well as it was now with the previous speaker. [[Abg. Grossruck: Do we look unhappy?]] So we are not in this unpleasant situation to have to talk about something that we are not really convinced of. We can say what we think of ourselves, and that is also the reason – that you will not be surprised – that we also come to different views in the cultural budget. Ladies and gentlemen, one is the claim you make on yourself – and the other is what comes out in the negotiations, where you throw all your weight into it – or not; it might be more fitting to say that. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Where do you have Mr. Stadler...?]] I am very grateful to the Federal Minister for the fact that she herself has admitted that the €228 million you brought out – which means the red lantern for the cultural budget – are far too few. This is far too little to stop the big budget holes, which of course do not exist since yesterday. At some point you have to start with it, and that was your great claim, with which you went into this election – one of many! That's why I'm all the more surprised – now I don't wonder much more slowly – when Mr. State Secretary, apart from service Morak, said in the Subcommittee that this budget is the best budget of the planet. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] This is a rather bold claim, you can only say there. The best budget of the planet, he said. I can only remind you of this: €200 million more for art and culture – this is what this page called for here. More than 20 million €, that was what you asked for when you went to the government negotiations. And came out 10 million euros. Congratulations! A little bit for the Bundestheater, a little bit for the federal museums and a part for film promotion. If one had to forgive a predicate, one would have to say: Very modest! Very modest, ladies and gentlemen. It does not help anything at all – you already have to do that – if you write to the government program that art and culture have a high priority. Everything has a high priority, and everything is at the heart of it. I have the feeling that there is already so much in the focus that there is no room at all and that therefore nothing is implemented. But let us go away from the very inadequate budgeting, ladies and gentlemen; the emphasis you have made on this budget is also wrong from our point of view. There are a number of blind spots, and you know very well that the worst sins are known to be the injunction sins, and there you have committed some. I do not believe that one can live up to the requirements of our time with an art and culture budget, where one might interpret art and culture as a nice thing, in which one can express a little his spirit of time. It looks a little different for us. For us, art and culture – which probably also distinguishes us from some here, perhaps even from several – are very much identical. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, because we live in an increasingly globalized world, which some interpret as achievement – we do not belong to it – living in a world where everything becomes interchangeable, living in a world where everything becomes confusing, living in a world where we go towards a culture of unity – I will tell you that – art and culture for us are something like a spiritual rock in the burning that we need today more urgently than ever before. [[Abg. Riepl: Which world do you want? Tell me!]] It is also evident in other areas that some have quite different ideas. It must be noted again and again that in spite of all the confessions to Austria, some of them in here – and they also draw like a red thread through all the speeches – have their dear need or at least an unenhanced relationship with values such as homeland, such as tradition or pride on their own history. In this we see a huge danger, ladies and gentlemen, because of the massive threat that central elements of our culture are being threatened by things that are so popular in the coat of progress. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Just once, take our language, which is mostly the German language – I hope I can say that without trying to turn a rope out of it again. Take our language here: There is a completely essential force of anglizisms. It is threatened by a lack of level of education, as we have already said, since we have already had cause research. There are media levellings through television and mass communication, all kinds of things, of course also the alienation that leads to our language being threatened. But without this German language, ladies and gentlemen, a central cultural element would be missing. We ask ourselves, for example, when we see this budget, where, for example, the quotas for radio and TV for German-speaking domestic productions are. Other countries are putting this before us. And, hopefully, you won't all want to say that the back forester is the promoter of such projects. In reality, this is something that is pointed forward. In order to fill this gap, ladies and gentlemen, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There's another stepchild in this cultural budget – that's gonna be You are still listening – something that is very, very important to us – but it fits exactly into this cultural policy line you are driving – and this is a proper support for the people's culture, the own people's culture, which I mean now. On the one hand, you cannot dispute this, the countries which are responsible for the culture of the people, so to speak, do not comply properly with their obligations in this area in the cultural budget, but it has not helped anyone to push it back and forth between the federal states, and on the other hand, the culture of the people is threatened by a weakening of the rural area as a whole. And this is dangerous because the people's culture is beyond the identity-building function we have already spoken about, in the various associations, in the groups, in which chapels have a very, very important social-political function, even if you do not want to acknowledge it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] I'm glad you're not in the government, I'm still glad, I don't want to know what else would be in the cultural budget. But you can't fix that once it's destroyed. I'm telling you, the folk culture from the test tube doesn't work! Ladies and gentlemen, that is why we are also making the following request in this area: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, you have also done it in this area, under the slat – and this is especially true of you – which you have put yourself before the choice to jump down miles. That means you have to get done, the bad conscience remains to you – if you still have one, after all you've failed. I think this is a pity for the Austrian artists, for the Austrian cultural landscape, for the folk culture and thus for our country as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40659	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Kickl, on the promotion and preservation of the German language as well as on the promotion and preservation of popular culture, are properly supported, duly submitted and are under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40754	Mrs Schasching's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40775	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I come back to the educational debate, in which McDonald’s might only be then, dear Comrade Cap, a topic is when we see that we promote a healthy school jacket and rather avoid it. I would like to mention in all cases that a fresh wind is blowing through the educational landscape and that the school has finally come into discussion that, as one feels, the ideological barriers, which have been particularly intensively built in recent years, are beginning to crumble. That is why I am very, very glad that you, Mrs Federal Minister, have initiated this very discussion. In the focus of school policy – your school policy! – stands the quality, the maximum use for each individual child and the maximum promotion for each individual child. They have taken important steps to ensure that this will be possible again in the future, because we cannot afford to have a single child on the track in our knowledge society, and because we also need to support everyone optimally according to their possibilities and abilities. The quality we need, however, also needs a corresponding organisation of a school day. The diversity between learning, exercises, promotions, repetitions, between creativity and sufficient sport and movement – a high-quality collaboration – can certainly also be achieved by an organizational form such as the school of the whole day. So I'm looking for you to have that especially in your focus, because this high-quality co-operation also includes various professional groups – if teachers, leisure teachers, in the broadest circle also music schools, organized club sports, psychologists, all of them working together on a school day and the children in such a school get a warm lunch and go home without a school bag – that would be a vision of an optimal school that offers more than just teaching. Because education is more than school, school is more than education – and that is exactly the success recipe of the PISA winners. Above all, this school would help to reduce the social selection that our education system unfortunately still represents. All children should be encouraged according to their talents, and not the parents' wallet should be decisive for the level of education! I am therefore particularly pleased that an important measure in this direction is also your increase in student support. 113 000 children and adolescents in Austria live close to or below the poverty line. It was therefore an important step to increase student support by 15 percent. This means, for example, that in Lower Austria, 6 640 children and young people will receive more education aid – exactly €1 130 a year. This means for my district of St. Pölten, 973 children receive this more than € 1,000 pupils' allowance. Thank you very much for this and wish you all the best on your way!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40827	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40848	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Art and culture is a sign of Austria in the world. There is no such asset anywhere in the world! I miss the time to list all the highlights now: from Mozart to the Philharmonics to the Lipizzans. Wherever you go – and you can believe me, I've come around a lot! –: One is addressed to the diversity of Austrian culture. It's all the sadr for me – and that's a fact! – that in terms of budget “art and culture”, not only is the SPÖ an election campaigner, but also the government programme promises completely different than is now thought of in the budget art and culture. I am not unhappy that you, Mrs Federal Minister, were nominated for this place, because I said: There is someone from the private sector who first tried to negotiate and second is a woman who is not foreign to economic thinking – yes, you have even been promised special skills in the economical economy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, while they are admiring that you had made a great deal of progress in the budget negotiations with the Minister of Finance, it is unfortunately to be said that inflation-adjusted and a lower cultural budget – especially with the importance of art and culture for Austria. The extremely sad thing about this is that the Federal Government is abandoning those who wanted to promote it in particular, namely the young, contemporary art and just analogous to that of the young artists. For those, the milky budget funds have to be just too sad, because many of these artists have been strongly committed to the SPÖ in the campaign for election. But also as far as the great ones are concerned – says Bundestheater and Museums – it must be said that their representatives are deeply disappointed. But I don't really care, because they should first learn to save and carry the reserves of a use. Back to the budget for art and culture. If the funding is not available as they would be necessary, I appeal to your wealth of ideas and your commercial know-how, Mrs. Federal Minister, for it is especially with the great that we use common potential – in the form of double-tracks in marketing, advertising or also in management. Although there is a lack of budgetary resources everywhere, it can only be found that the large ones are getting more funding. Here, for example, small-scale or smaller-scale cultural associations and especially groups of people should be resold. These are treated like stepchildren. The fact is that the diversity of art and culture must be preserved, and especially among the little ones it is to be expected to be very creative. They can bring in their ideas without reservation and do not have to comply with strict rules – and they get by 18 percent less than in the previous year! They speak of far-reaching goals, Mrs. Federal Minister. They want to significantly increase investment and think of sources of revenue other than, for example, budget resources. That's right, Mrs. Minister! The promotion of macenatism was already in the monarchy and gave. But my tip to this: Think about the tax deductibility of expenses for art and culture. You don't have to take as much as 100 percent, you can start small once – with 50 percent. I would particularly like to draw my attention to two points: the fact that Vienna has a name as a cultural city, which, last but not least, has a massive impact on urban tourism. But the culture, opera, theatre and other cultural institutions say goodbye to the federal states during the summer months. So far, so good – but there are enough artists who are not busy in these months, and so the operation could partly be maintained on the Vienna stage. Another topic on the Austrian film: You, Mrs Bundesminister, have promised to set up a working group whose task is to find out how to revive the Austrian film. I think there's enough creative potential here and enough good people who could revitalize the movie. Here you only have to give a boost once. I think you will. I think, Madam Minister, that you are ambitious about your work, and I wish you all the best despite narrow cash registers, because: Exercise art can only be the chosen, art to love every earthborn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40912	Again, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e40934	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! A few words on art and cultural policy, which are entirely, very important to me and which I would like to say, above all, to you, Mr Zinggl, Mr Zinggl: I am concerned with preserving the treasures of the past, the care of tradition. But I am equally concerned with contemporary art and culture. I also know personally about the precarious situation of many artists. In that sense, my art and cultural policy, the policy I want to stand for, is never a either art or art and culture policy, but rather a both art and culture policy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the budget: The starting point in the budget negotiations was anything but favourable in the chapter art and culture. There has been a certain increase, but you also know – I have said this publicly in interviews – that: I'm only partially satisfied here, and it's not enough. I know about the bottlenecks and I have agreed with the Minister of Finance in the course of the budget negotiations that there will be additional sources of revenue for the chapter on art and culture. The working group you have referred to, Mr Schalle, is working, and in June – only yesterday we coordinated with Mr Finanzminister again – the results of the working group will be available here. A second point, which is also being discussed, and above all I hope for cooperation with the cultural speaker of the ÖVP, Mr Morak, is the area of social security, where repair is urgently needed and where we will also prepare the documents in June. It needs a novel of the law. So this must be done by the Council of Ministers. Without the coalition partner We will not achieve the abolition of these blatant misunderstandings. I also expect the constructive contribution of the coalition partner. You, Mr Zinggl, also referred to the Federal Museums: Through the novelle to the Federal Museum Act, through the regulatory empowerment, but also through the framework target agreements, there are now possibilities that make it possible to focus. That must be well prepared. I also regard this as a success in enabling the appropriate framework conditions in the course of the novelle. Mr Morak referred to the fact that the budget issue is unclear and not correct in detail. - That's right! We have discussed this in detail in the Committee on Budgets. I have said that there are inaccuracies, ambiguities, but I have also said that there is a way to compensate for this virus ability. The cultural institutions are informed that they are not getting into bottlenecks now – I have led the telephone calls in some cases personally. Sometimes mistakes occur in the time pressure – that's what it is. The important thing is how to deal with them and, above all, that those concerned have no disadvantage from them. That is probably also the reason why there is no Thursday discussion or protest on this issue. A few words still in general with my official understanding: I would like to see myself as an art and culture minister and also to be perceived in such a way that I am open, dialogue-oriented, that I will, of course, continue to be assessed, and in future, also on the use of funds, on the financial resources. But I also wish that the way in art and cultural policy is more in space – how we deal with the artists. It is not all right to treat them as a bitter in the course of the funding process – and after all, we care for 5,000 artists each year who submit funding – as a bitter, they have not deserved it! We must also go into new forms of dialogue and communication. Mr Schalle, you have spoken about the incredible treasure of art and culture. The artists deserve our highest appreciation. All I can contribute to this, I will do as Minister of Art and Culture. – Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41000	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. That's right. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41021	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Art and culture are very important and are also promoted accordingly. That's good. However, I would like to return to education and education again. The fact that there is also an increase in the budget is also particularly important. It is very important once that a plus is at the front, even if it is not as big as some would like. These plus 50 million € from the educational path for this year and 145 million € for next year are, I think, a progress. I should like to congratulate you, Mrs Federal Minister, but also the Minister for Finance, for having found this balance here and for providing the best training for our young people, for our children and students, so much money. The continuation of this successful path also highlights itself with a small position, but a very important position – I can take this out – is the money for the small schools. In recent years, we have provided €12 million annually for the small schools. These €12 million can also be found in the budget and next year – i.e. these €12 million are secured for the future [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is really important, because these small schools are about small schools in rural areas, which have to be preserved, because simply this important infrastructure on the ground is important for local life and, as a whole, against emigration et cetera. Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to ask you: Also take care to see how this money is used! Unfortunately, it was not used in Carinthia in 2006, but closed up in small schools. [[Abg. Faul: But this is the case of the National School Council!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] A total of 15 small schools were closed. As a result, at least three of these small schools, in this case the parents with the congregation have declared themselves ready to carry on these three schools as private schools. That's what you have to put up with. One year they have kept this up with our support – I say so. We, the ÖVP, have demanded vehemently that next year we be locked up again. Now at school At the end of 2006, these three private schools were transferred back to a public school. It's also a novum. That is why I ask you, Mrs Federal Minister: Take care very carefully, see that the money is also used for purposes! I say this with the small schools and with this use also because there was also the link between SPÖ and BZÖ. This happened under the tolerance of the SPÖ in Carinthia at the time at this rather disgusting alliance. And that's why, Minister of Education: Take care of the BZÖ in another troubled alliance, because they are actually about further school closures, even this year in Carinthia there are small school closures again. [[Abg. Faul: This is the case of the National School Council!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (in the direction of Abg. Faul) But if the federal remedy is, it is not decisive!]] The new educational speaker or educational representative in Carinthia has already announced this. That is why I would say as far as the general school is concerned: We are opposed to school closures, we are opposed to the abolition of primary schools, gymnasiums and private schools – I would like to hold this very precisely here! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sounds.]] What this improvement is all about is not to be achieved by a door sign, but it is simply about the quality of the class, about the best education for the children, about individual promotion and also about the challenge. Vienna also shows this, and mayor Häupl also confirmed it: Yes, this attempt with the cooperative middle school has failed more or less. The insufficient integration, lack of German knowledge, willingness to violence and cetera – is all unsolved. Therefore, once again: Don't worry about chaos in school! We, the ÖVP, are quite clear for the abolition of primary school, gymnasium and private school.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41159	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41183	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41204	I call Mrs Zwerschitz, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41219	To my previous speaker: The luxury that children have in small schools, namely this great care, because the staff key is such that relatively few students get quite a lot of personnel resources: That is exactly what we want for all, and not just for the schools in the country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Niederwieser was very surprised today that the opposition had high expectations for the educational budget. I've found a little surprising that he doesn't quite understand. I suppose he knows his own campaign very well – it was quite promised. It is also clear, of course, that if you place the latte yourself up, the others expect you to jump over relatively well. It has also done a lot in the education budget – we are delighted about it. But from our point of view, it is clearly too little for how important education really is. If you say the most important thing is not money, but more time, I'm sorry, I don't understand. Does this now mean free social work for teachers who then do the extra hours we cannot pay “so” because they hardly have anything to do next to the teaching anyway? I can't really imagine that. I've been a teacher myself for a long time, I know a lot of teachers. I hardly know anyone who doesn't already put thousands of free hours in there – with everything possible – because if you get involved in teaching, that comes about by itself. But to prescribe this as a premise and to say: We no longer need money, but more time!, is a relatively strange undertaking. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] Of course, we would also have wanted to reduce the number of school students for the higher schools. You yourself, before you were in government, demanded exactly the same thing. It is clear that this is not possible so quickly because it is difficult to reject children because we do not want to. But where are the resources with which we finally start to create these opportunities for the next few years? Where are the resources of additional funding in these higher schools, so that you can always form smaller groups in school, so that there are simply more teachers available? – They are nowhere hidden in this budget – unfortunately! If Mr Graf said today that there was a lot of improvisation in schools and a lot of doctrine, then I have to give him the right. But these were not the school attempts, but that was this big construction site school policy, as it was left behind. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No! These were also school attempts, Mrs. Colleague!]] If illness lasts over weeks and months and in some regions it is simply impossible to drive up someone who takes this class, and you have to rely that every hour someone else is in the class when schools in the back and in the front no longer meet with the staff, then it is no wonder when the teacher is being doctored around. We must be grateful to all teachers for having done so for years, because in fact our school system should have already collapsed in these conditions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What is very disturbing about me is this story with these 20 percent of 15-year-olds who cannot read and write, and unfortunately, these support and integration forces that we urgently need are not eligible for funding. We will have to pay the bill in future years. I consider it unreasonable if there are people who are afraid to go to offices because they cannot read forms. If we need more and more symbols in road traffic and signposts, because the words can't be read, then there's a lot of stuff, then you have to put it here safely! Unfortunately, this has not been achieved in this budget. But I hope in all cases for the next few years. What I do not want to miss is to give Mr Neugebauer an answer, which unfortunately is no longer there. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I can tell him!]] He said that the woman minister had thrown the entire school into the discussion. I can very well imagine that Mr Neugebauer has a problem with this, because the ÖVP often has a problem with throwing something into a discussion without having a concept behind it, which they all look at. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, no, no!]] That's what we know about the ÖVP. I am very grateful for the fact that there is another way to go, that there is a broad discussion about it and that we have the opportunity to create something together. What do parents want for their children? What do parents want for themselves? – They want to have the opportunity to train their children in such a way that their children feel comfortable that these children have the opportunity to learn that they can work independently – something that is safely possible with a good overall education system. We have heard this several times: Those who have to choose too young often have the difficulties with what it will become. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true at all!]] It is a purely social decision, what happens then, and it has nothing to do with the fact that we want everything to be levelled. Of course, an overall school only works well if there are the appropriate funding options. Class differences should not be promoted by constantly supporting different school systems! There are many ways to modernise school. There are many ways to expand schools. Many impulses have not come from the regular school system, but from alternative school concepts. That is why they should be encouraged. There should still be the possibility of making lessons quite different. This means, for children, dealing with learning differently, quite differently with time. Social learning is also often particularly important in these schools, because they can also do so. What they cannot do is rely on long-term funding, and therefore we Greens are submitting a motion for a resolution which, by the way, has already been tabled in this form. Since we don't want to do the same fun twice, of course we wrote it this time without SPÖ names: [[Quoted print version removed]] Perhaps the SPÖ can agree with the ÖVP that it can support this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41340	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Zwerschitz is sufficiently supported, is also properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41397	Next, Mr Broukal. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41418	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs Colleague, in the Committee on Budgets, the Minister for Education has informed all of us that alternative schools will be given 20 per cent more money this year than last year and that there will be a further 15 per cent increase in 2008. The Minister of Education has also said to me that she also sees that most of the private schools are compulsory schools and that the goal must be, just as in the case of the private schools run by the Confession, simply to stand up for teachers' salaries or for the school to a high degree – but this can certainly be done by the Federal Minister with her own words, if she wants to. Mr Brosz, I referred to an official presentation of the Federal Ministry of Education and Art, after which there is a budget increase of 10.15 percent between 2006 and 2007. You're right if you say that compares estimates to estimates. Last year, Mrs Gehrer spent much more money – but we have nothing at all! – so that when you see what has been spent and what is now in the proposal, the increase is a lower one. The Ministry of Finance is also not quite clear in its documents how much that is. It's about 4 to 5 percent this year, and next year it's another 1.5 percent. What you would have to say, fairly, is: As yet, you do not know what the Minister of Finance, Mr Schmied, will “trap” out everything to the new Minister of Finance this year, so that we will not have the full clarity about the increase after your bill until we are able to compare success in 2006 with success in 2007. – So, I apologize in part, but I also have a “paperl” that supports my reading. [[Abg. Brosz: But there are the increases in salary...!]] So, there has been a lot of talk about the “common school” today – I am absolutely right, that has become the school-political issue of the year. I am with you all the time that you emphasize that a school system is not just to be touched and moved by joy of experimentation – there I am with you. One of the most difficult arts there is to adapt and change something in running operations. I don't even think that's minor. On the other hand, I have to tell you: I am one of those people who were felt too stupid and inappropriate for the AHS at the age of nine and a half years. That's 40 years ago – and that's why I hate this system. I'll tell you what it is. I can't get rid of it. I'm still standing in front of a director with my mother today, saying: It's too stupid for the AHS – with nine and a half! I'm still in front of it! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There you need therapeutic help!]] And I just don't want it anymore that there is this in this country that directors can make such judgments for some reason over nine and a half years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But we don't want to argue about this. That's just one of my motives. That's why I don't give up my mind at the cash register either. I know the goal is that we want to convince you of the SPÖ that we are working together to develop a model that is beyond dispute for you, too, that this new school is better than primary school and AHS. It must also be better than today's AHS! And in the AHS there is no end to improvement potential – we all agree –: undifferentiated, low funding lessons, if one is bad, he is “skinned out” if one does not fit, we push him off to the primary school. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Well, there's recognized in the AHS – my colleague Brinek nods in contrast to you because she knows what I'm talking about! – more potential. We've gone this way, he'll probably take a long time. We know that we have to do a lot of convincing work with you, that we are You have to get on board and that we and the experts have to succeed in convincing you, too, that the new is not the in-pot, not the worse, not the good-and-bad-combination, but something completely new that means more to all children than schools today can mean. [[Abg. Wheeler: It's about money! The communities are talking about money!]] But since we are on this path together, ladies and gentlemen, there is also a joint motion for a resolution calling on the National Council to adopt the following: [[Quoted print version removed]] And then we will certainly talk about it intensively in the teaching committee and not just for one afternoon, but we will not be able to fully understand the experience and well-being of these experts. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Finally, as Mr Neugebauer mentioned the Lycée Français: Yes, you're right if you look at the phone book, there's: ‘Lycée Français..., Volksschule & Gymnasium’. - One of my daughters was in the Lycée. Now I have called there more, not to say something out of memory wrong, and have received the information: Yeah, it's a folk school and a gymnasium. – But at the age of nine and a half years, nobody is told: You've got a threesome in the fourth grade folk school and you're going to high school! – There everyone is taken to the gymnasium, and if someone is bad, he repeats, but he is not thrown out. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We can talk about this cliff!]] That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We can talk about this cliff!]] So if you cite the example of the Lycée, I say: Welcome to reality! Yes, we want exactly such schools, where at the age of nine and a half years you will not be sent away and one of the more educational routes will be installed, because you have a threesome in the witness. We want a school where you can continue until fourteen, even if you have a threesome with nine and a half. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41549	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal by Mrs Ddr. Niederwieser and Neugebauer are sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41604	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41625	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! First, I would have a suggestion and a request: We are now discussing under one, as we are always glad to say, the chapters of education, art and culture, and this is constantly mixed in the words. I would encourage you to perhaps separate this for the forthcoming budget debate, so that at first we may all speak to the chapter on education and then all to the chapter art and culture, because it is much more pleasant to replicate the previous speakers who speak to the school, and because, I believe, it is much easier for the listeners to follow the debate. I would personally feel that it is very pleasant to say: Let's finish the school and then go on to art and culture! – This is just a suggestion and a request for the next year, because then, I think, it is much easier for colleagues here in the hall to follow the debate. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Zinggl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We need to reform this at all!]] Mrs. Minister, you have brought in the key word here: The school should make students fit for the future. – I think that is certainly the right and a reasonable approach. As a teacher who has been teaching for twenty years and who is also active in the economy, I would think that – which is the link between today's various contributions – is: Why don't we go here and try to show all the problems we currently have in school, with the students and around the school? . The request just submitted is certainly reasonable, insofar as it intends to evaluate all the problems once. From our point of view, from a liberal point of view, it really doesn't make sense to just go here and say: So, we're doing the total school now, and with this concept of the entire school, we've solved all the school problems with one blow! – If this were to work, it would be a great approach and one would have to say: That's it! – But that is not the case! As I said, I've been a teacher for twenty years, and I'm allowed to list only some of the problems that I see from my point of view and which can be solved. And these problems are not only mentioned by us liberals, but they have also been shown by recognized school experts as such. First of all, there is the problem of non-existent integration and the non-existent German language skills in large areas of popular students. You have to notice once and for all that too many students now enter school without sufficient German knowledge! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes!]] There are schools, now even in Tyrol, in Innsbruck, where the proportion of foreigners or students with non-German mother tongue is 80 percent. And there are, of course, problems! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Absolutely right!]] Let's be honest: If these students enter an overall school, then the education will not be better. I can only be trained if I can understand and, of course, communicate what has been said. If that doesn't work, then no school system in the world is able to teach the education in such a way that the students can follow the instruction. So this is a large part of the area where in the past – where you can't do it, Mrs Minister – problems have been made because you haven't listened to the warnings of the Freedom Party. We have always been horrified as the so-called foreigners, because we have demanded that people who come to us, of course, have to have German – and that, of course, they can have German when they enter school! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a fundamental condition, however, which has not been met in the last few years. A second problem – and this, I believe, is also undisputed beyond the party's borders – is the problem of behavioural conspicuousness. This is growing to a dramatic extent. I only have eight minutes of speaking time, but I could tell you all the time – and you know it yourself – which cases have already happened in the good rural area. The number of behavioural constipations thus increases exorbitantly. And this also cannot be solved by the general school, if the differentiated school system cannot solve it before, because that is not the problem of school, but in our view it is also a social-political problem, in view of which we really have to ask ourselves the question: Is it really the only solution that we are constantly considering: What can we do to give children early in childhood to give children away from their parents? – I am now sitting in here for the fourth day more or less and following the discussions. What I miss most in this house – except for our Barbara Rosary and the positioning of the Freedom Party – is also a step in the right of parents to raise their children independently! I miss this over long distances. I find it to be measured – and you have to say that here – what you do here: We are only constantly discussing how early we can put children out of the parents' laps and perhaps all day in a school system, into a training system. Let us at least leave parents the freedom of choice – the freedom of choice to decide independently whether they want to stay with their children! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hradecsni]] For example, I have three children, and my wife likes to be with the children, but let us at least give the parents the opportunity to decide for themselves whether they can raise their children independently and also care for them independently in the afternoon! And, above all, we are creating the conditions of fiscal and financial nature! I would like to ask that we discuss at least once in the future whether we can create the financial conditions so that, if a parent stays at home, parents can also train their children and also take care of their children independently and not have to give the children away in the afternoon, because I think that is what the parents should decide on their own. The third area, which is a huge problem for me as a teacher – and I have already discussed this in the teaching committee – is the challenge of the students. We have curriculums that are too full from the point of view of many students, but also from the point of view of many teachers. We demand too much from our students – with the consequence that the number of students who have problems that are tablets addictive to school fears is increasing to a shocking extent. We need to see whether this is not a less than one under the line a more in the education and training of our students. I would suggest, Minister, that you also try to evaluate curriculum and try to produce less pressure in school, both for students and for teachers and especially for parents. The next point that really irritates me as a teacher: One has too little time to practice in school with the children, because the curriculum is so full. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:... Framework curriculum!]] Well, what happens? – Good students come along, of course, that’s already clear, but worse students are doing harder. And what happens? – Parents need to take a deep grip on their pockets and spend billions in order to teach and deliver to their children what we really need to carry on in school. That is why, from this point of view, it is also very important to evaluate the curriculum and, under the motto “less is more” to provide a financial relief for parents, because it cannot be that the practice is transferred from school in the morning to school outside school in paid educational institutions. This, please, ladies and gentlemen, is not a good approach for me. Another problem – if you already talk about the general school and discuss it and, of course, consider the tight resources of the budget on the one hand – is the question: What about the salary of teachers? If, purely theoretically speaking, we were to introduce an overall school – which we do not support, because, from the point of view of us liberals, the arguments are not plausible, namely that these problems could be solved on this model before – how would it look like the salary? – On the one hand, we have much too little money over long distances, and on the other hand, you should have a common school of the 6- to 14-year-olds with the consequence that of course the teachers should also have the same salary. Then: Why should I pay less to a high school teacher who is inside this school than to an AHS teacher who, of course, also teaches in this so-called common school? That means we have different pay systems, and then we may have the same demands. Well, how do we solve that? – This problem is to be discussed from my point of view, and then we need a plausible proposal so that we know whether it is financially possible at all! My speaking time has long since expired, but I can still make many points here. I think it is reasonable to evaluate all the problems of the school now. It is good that this group of experts is used. Perhaps it would also be good for you to include interested parliamentarians in this group of experts so that we can also bring in what is moving us, and our wealth of experience – perhaps other colleagues in the main profession of teachers or in the education and training sector – as well. I think it would be good to be able to take this knowledge into this group of experts to discuss the problems in order to deal with the question: How do we solve these problems? so that you have at least a decision criterion when it comes to the decision: Total school yes or total school no? But, under the rule: At present, we really lack the plausible arguments to decide for the entire school, because the differentiated school system in God is not as bad as it is made. One last thing: As a teacher at the trade academy and trade school in Lienz, we have received students from the rural primary schools, and I tell you one thing: These students were no worse than the students from the urban AHS! I've never seen a difference as a teacher. What does that mean? – That the differentiated school system is not worse per se, but it depends on what conditions, what attitude, or whether there are behavioural constipations and so on – I do not need to repeat that. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I'm sure I'll tell you: If at all, let's do this strategicly! Let's see where the problems are! Let's discuss this together, and then we'll see what comes out! From the current free-lance point of view, we are stunned and clear for the preservation – perhaps also in approaches to improving – of the differentiated school system with the many, many accompanying measures needed to make the students really fit for the future. Mrs Minister, we will certainly be working with you there! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41756	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41777	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! For the estimated previous speaker: I am pleased when there are many who are working, participating in, discussing, but one has already been said for early promotion: I believe that a thought is linked to us, namely that a disadvantage that arises from the start in a very certain family situation of origin should not become a threat to us on our entire life course. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dwarf.]] And early promotion in kindergarten is an essential point of approach. I don't think we've made every chance out of that either. – Thank you for your consent. I would also like to make a correct point at this point and, in the sense of Mr Auer, who has carried it out; in the sense of his speech, it was obvious that it was here again: We are for maintaining the differentiated system – to obtain the primary schools, the gymnasias, the HAKs, the HBLAs, the HTLs, and yet to improve them quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Broukal: But that sounded different in the eye!]] Why do I say that? – Because, point one, there is no scientific study that would prove that the system of the school as a whole would be better, more just, or anything else. This evidence has not yet been provided; nor does it prove that the overall school system compensate better for the socio-economic background and disadvantages associated with it than the differentiated system, so the scientists call it. As far as Mr Broukal's fate is concerned, I do not envy him either; I am grateful to God for having experienced another fate – but I did not come to Matura via an elitegymnasium, to Matura, which I then passed through the primary school with honor. I'm a winner of the differentiated system. But not for that reason I defend it, but because there are many good reasons for it rationally. Colle Niederwieser, as a Tyrolean, went to an elitegymnasium in Lower Austria. – So we have come to our success, and there have already been rectors at the universities that have come over the main school there. So our system is not equipped with deadlocks or with one-wayways where there is no return, no side-by-side, no change. – Let’s improve the system where it can be improved! What do countries do, then, what decisions do countries that have switched to education systems as a whole? . I have just read a report that, after the abolition of gymnasia in the UK, not only did not promote the rise of disadvantaged children, but, in fact, they are even more disadvantaged. The title was: Where earlier performance was crucial, it is now the residential area and the real estate broker prices. – That is, the booming of the elitist, highly paid schools... [[Abg. Broukal:... so since Blair!]] No, it's not since Blair! The Blair consultant said that, Mr Broukal, I will give you the name. The booming of the private, expensive elites in total school countries and the creation of a two-class society can't do that either by the SPÖ and the Greens! – Let us therefore enter into a dialogue that is guided by more rationality than I sometimes have the impression in Austria. PISA also provides no evidence and no indication of the need for the introduction of an overall school system. Korea is in the problem solution on number one. – Have you read the “Furche” in recent days and also the report that the Federal President brought with his delegation from Korea? – Everyone in Asia can have a school system as they like, but: high use of private funds for re-help, buffalo until 8 p.m. in the evening, learning outside. A Swiss teacher with the experience of a differentiated system that has reported from there says: I have learned to think at home – here you learn how to learn externally. – Do you want to derive such a total school system from space one in the result of PISA? - No, I don't. [[Abg. Brosz: No!]] [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: You will never learn! –... compares us to Korea! Next time we talk about Djibouti!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned about Vienna, and I find that the call for the Vienna school politicians who have the say there is rather a fog cannon – because they know that we need to change the law by a two-thirds majority – that is a distraction from the conditions that exist in Vienna. Also there can be called PISA – the city with more than a million inhabitants is only Vienna in Austria –: Here's a worse cut in reading and mathematics! – I am worried because the real problems that have already been addressed will not be solved. Here, for example, in my hometown, in the Leopoldstadt, we could use the immediate companionship of folk school, primary school, gymnasium and kindergarten to try out new cooperation and improvement models. But for years and decades the school location has been left unrenovated, unrenovated, because the municipality of Vienna exploits any price-fixing monopoly to block the idea. – That’s not how it can be done! A note that goes into the subject of art and culture – Mrs. Federal Minister, I think you share my concern as well: The fact that you are working more and more with private-public partnership in school building is from the outset nothing bad. But if in the future, Vienna will rely on “official plans” – that is, no more architects, no more competitions, no urban planning designs, no more for new residential areas – and the office planners in the XY Magistrates department will then say which “school containers” – they call that – will be built so that our children will be accommodated there, then this is not in the sense of a modern school policy. I'm looking forward to the discussion. The government programme is in place! We have good studies. Let us value them, and let's make them new! Thank you. Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41885	Mr Ddr. has made an actual correction. Erwin Niederweiserreported a word. You are aware of the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41928	Mr Brinek said that Mr Niederwieser has visited an Elitegymnasium in Lower Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Is that not true?]] I put it correctly as follows: I have visited the Humanist Gymnasium of the Salesian Don Boscos in Unterwaltersdorf for over eight years. It was a boarding school. That was the school where children came whose parents had very little money to afford such a thing; 240 s cost it per month at that time. There was never talk of an "elitegymnasium", and one would really refrain from calling it "elitegymnasium" – where it was a matter of giving children from poor families the opportunity to study which the public education system did not then offer them. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Why? What's so bad about it?]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e41979	Next speaker is Mrs Haidlmayr. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42000	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To me, it kind of sounds weird when you're discussing: Which of the gymnasiums in which someone was was better, and what was a “elitegymnasium ” and what was not? [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: “Elitegymnasium” has a certain term..., really!]] I would like to draw your attention to this: We people with disabilities do not need to choose whether it should be a better or a worse gymnasium, but children with disabilities have no chance in Austria or just a minimal chance to attend a gymnasium! As ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to address this, because the integration of people with disabilities in education is far from self-comprehensible, let alone that this question would have been resolved by now, that is, that all children would have been integrated. It's not like that! I was only recently faced with situations in which parents made me aware that they still have to ask the director and the teacher whether their disabled child is allowed to attend this school – “for the sake of mercy”! Yeah, where are we? – Mrs Minister, that is a change! Every child has the right to integration, not depending on whether or not others want it or not, but it is a legitimate right, and no one needs to be asked! And this, Mrs Minister, is finally to be ensured, because this is also part of the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities, although the field of education has been excluded. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Minister, I would now like to make my contribution to cultural policy. I have already told you in the Committee that it is not natural for people with disabilities to use culture. I can't. This is not possible, therefore, because many cultural institutions have not yet been created for it or have not yet been adapted accordingly, that accessibility-free use of these cultural facilities would be possible at all. I described to you the situation of the museum quarter. I still have to wait today, if I want to go into the hall, like a dog, and when the door goes up and someone goes in, I can “wipe in” because you still have not managed to install electric door openers there at last – there is an attack there, but there are no cables in it. Mr Waldner is now really required to wake up after four years and to do something there, Mrs Minister. And it is also a matter of putting pressure on you there, because Minister Gehrer did not, of course – but that was not to be expected – and that is why we have the situation as we have it. Mrs Minister, I asked in the Committee the questions of accessibility or the financing of barrier-free design of cultural institutions. They have done a lot of things that have nothing to do with it. If you write that you are promoting, for example, restorations of objects, the re-establishment of collections, security facilities, digitalization measures and so on for institutions that are not members of the Federation, then this is beautiful and good, but that must not go at the expense of accessibility. If you do this in addition: Yes! But, please, Accessibility, Mrs. Minister, is something that must also be included in your plan – which you obviously do not have in your ministry. The Federal Disability Equality Act clearly states that you or the Federal Government until 31. December 2006 will have to deliver a stage plan across all the federal buildings, which will cover the concrete implementation of accessibility in the next few years. This stage plan has not yet arrived as far as your place of business is concerned. But I cannot say, Mrs Minister, whether it is up to you or whether the government has not done so at all. I'll ask myself that, because I mean, Of course it can't be like that! Mrs. Minister! Access to cultural services must be ensured for all people – not only in the context of ensuring accessibility as a matter of course, but also for people who have little income or no income, cultural offers must be very manageable. This offer, that there will now be a day in the month or the week, on which you can go for free in events, is quite nice, Mrs Minister, but that alone it must not be, but at the federal level you must also create a so-called, I say now, social passport or similar, so that people who have very little income can really use culture at prices they can afford. That is precisely the first place where people with little income have to get out of society, because they can no longer develop culturally, because simply the money for it is no longer there. First the culture goes on, then the teeth and so on. We know the situations and know where people need to save everywhere to secure their naked survival, and culture is the first place. Mrs Minister, an Austrian social passport or similar, with which people with low income can then visit these events free of charge, I believe should become a matter of course, and not a social act. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I ask you, Mrs Minister, to discuss this with the countries so that this will finally be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42061	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42082	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address another important point of the educational offensive in the government programme, which has not yet been mentioned, namely the educational guarantee until the 18th century. Year of life. I see this as a very central requirement of the SPÖ, but it is a decisive step also towards ensuring youth employment. The aim of the educational guarantee is to reduce the number of young people without vocational training and without graduation, and there are a number of measures to be taken to implement this educational guarantee. The aim is to reduce the drop-out rate, for example, by developing an increased professional information, including increased economic involvement; it is about smaller classes or smaller groups in the first classes of BHS, BMS, technical schools and gymnasia in the German field – since we have the result of the PISA test that 20 percent of 15-year-olds cannot read meaningfully – but it is also about reducing the number of students in the polytechnic course. It will also be important or an objective to extend the range of BMS and BHS. There are more than 2 400 training places planned. In addition, of course, the extension of over-company apprenticeships and the promotion of firms offering training places should also take place. I also think it is very important to re-acquire qualifications. In particular, the main issue is that the primary school can be reclaimed, it is a better school preparation for the professional age test, just to mention some of the points. Not to be forgotten, of course, is the extension of integrative vocational training. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a whole bunch of important measures to prevent young people from landing on the streets and then their chances in future life being very limited. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42123	I inform you that, as of 12.15 a.m., Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Claudia Schmied will be represented by Mr. Gio Hahn on the basis of a stay abroad within the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: This is an incorrect message! What's the name of the Minister?]] The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42162	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After a brief name discussion, I come back to the subject. – The orientation of major cultural events is quite similar to what we Austrians expect from our country on the basis of a long tradition and which also corresponds to the good reputation of Austria as a cultural nation abroad. These major events include the application of Austrian cities by the title “Culture Capital of Europe”. This application offers every Austrian city the opportunity to present itself for a whole year in the shop window of Europe, to present contemporary art and culture, and ultimately to strengthen the local infrastructure through high investments. The fact that tourism aspects also need to be taken into account is not readily admitted by the cultural authorities, but is economically meaningful and absolutely necessary. The Styrian capital of Graz – my hometown – was European Capital of Culture in 2003. Six years later, in 2009, the Upper Austrian capital Linz will be the nearest city that attracts attention and can compete with former cultural capitals such as Dublin or Copenhagen. The nature of the matter is that the Austrian cities cannot finance such large events of supraregional importance alone, but depend on the support of the countries and the federal government and, of course, must also take advantage of EU funding. Mrs Bundesminister, you have stated in the Subcommittee of the Budget Committee that the funding amounting to approximately €60 million, which will so to speak draw the application, will be equally raised by the city of Linz, the country of Upper Austria and the Federal Government. I am pleased that Linz is able to set up the cultural year for Upper Austria, and I hope that planning and budgeting have really been used in time to avoid mistakes and omissions as they happened in Graz in the past, for example, and to use the taxpayer's money sparingly and wisely. Mrs. Federal Minister, it is always important – when the federal money is used – to ensure that the accompanying control works. The report of the Graz City Accounting Court, which subsequently examined, contains a number of references to errors and failures that occurred during the implementation of the Graz Capital of Culture 2003 project, but could probably have been avoided during timely monitoring. I would like to give a few examples of this: The City Accounting Court has made a literal complaint in the examination of the effectiveness and economic efficiency of the city: "The measures necessary to obtain a statement on regularity to determine total income and expenditure were extremely difficult. A link between the accounting costs recorded for the underlying projects is only more limited, especially since the reference records of the cost accounting submitted have been destroyed before the start of the audit.’ In my opinion, this is already an blatant defect, which very narrows the scope of the examination and, of course, cannot lead to concrete results. In addition, the Court of Auditors also criticises the excess of the planned cost of individual projects, such as the famous “Murinsel”, the so-called Acconci Island, where the costs have also been exceeded by more than € 1 million. The City Accounting Court has found – and these are sober figures, but one has to think about when preparing such an important project – that is: “In the case of individual awards, questions remain open to the City Accounting Court, in particular those relating to the not always clearly documented price and fee finding of artists and subcontractors. Contracts have often been concluded only at times when the overall scale of costs for the subcontractor must have been quite clear. It is not always clear from the files whether more favourable subcontractors or artists’ fees would have been possible." These are important findings of the City Accounting Court, to which it also concludes conclusions for the future. He says: “In the case of future operations by the city within the framework of project companies, it is appropriate to seek timely consultation on the structure of a cost bill and how to regulate the storage of these important documents. It should also be sought that any comprehensible transfer of the accounting figures to the figures of the cost statement is available at any time.’; The City Accounting Court has found that sustainability needs to be given greater importance in the future, because such a year of culture is usually puffed like a fireworks rocket to New Year's Eve. All the money is put into one year, and for projects to follow, there is usually no financial provision. The Graz City Accounting Court has found that it would have been useful to design an attractive programme with €40 million, but to reserve the rest, namely €20 million, for the following years. - It didn't happen. Grazern has remained the memory of a rather singular event. Sustainability is only because urban debt has increased dramatically since then. The "Murinsel", the so-called Acconci Island, is – we have seen this in the meantime – not to run economically; the city is looking for new tenants year after year. The conservation and operating costs of the Kunsthaus are so high that they have a lasting burden on the urban budget, and not just on the art budget, while the number of visitors to the Kunsthaus has a considerable amount of flaw. Ladies and gentlemen, the mistakes made in Graz should be – and that was the reason and the meaning of my speech – in the future, for example at Linz, so to speak. It is only if you accompany the projects immediately, because control in the afterlife is simply not enough, as it has clearly shown. Mrs. Federal Minister, please ensure that there is a careful and efficient commitment to the important cultural project in Linz! I know that as a Federal Minister you have a lot more to do than read control reports, but I still want to make this attempt – there will be someone in your house who understands the controlling – and give you the report. I can ask you to ensure that the errors of the past are not repeated from the federal side.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42257	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42278	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Back to the topic of school. – In these days, the written Matura will start in Austria, and at the end of June, even if the oral examinations will be completed, almost 60 percent of the mature examination certificates will come from higher schools. I know from my own professional experience that we can be proud of these graduates, because they represent a very successful school system and are rightly in demand as future employees in a company. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Over the entire BMHS area, 310 000 students are cared for at 700 school locations of nearly 30 000 teachers. These educators provide professional and optimal quality assurance in the BMHS area. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it is not optimal to say that in the next school year, in the first years and classes, a 20 percent exceed the maximum number of students will be possible. This means that there can be a number of up to 36 students in one class. A concrete example from Lower Austria: At half of all commercial academies and trade schools, there will be classes with more than 30 students – unfortunately no trace of 25! [[Abg. Owl: No one has spoken of the high schools!]] The high numbers of students are particularly challenging in the first classes of vocational schools for pedagogical reasons, because of the fact that many students do not even plan to attend the school beyond the ninth level with the best conditions for entry. This leads to a disturbance of the system for all parties involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Right! The diagnosis is correct!]] In this context, I question the current practice of determining the qualifications of students to take up a BMHS. In summary, therefore, the following measures are absolutely necessary for me: Already in the coming school year – where it is possible in space – the 20-percent exceedance of the maximum number of students is to be avoided. The reduction of the number of students to 25 in the BMHS area shall be carried out quickly. In addition, new methods should be developed to define the admission requirements for trainees. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] Only in this way do we receive our efficient vocational education system, and so keep it at the pulse of time! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42346	Next, Mr Faul. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42367	Mr President. Madam Federal Minister, unfortunately you are going out, I wanted to convey to you the highly esteemed thanks to the compulsory school teachers from Styria, because they felt the first time they also talked to each other when a Federal Minister spoke of school. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] It is! Mr. Neugebauer, if you go here today and say that you want to set the guidelines for school tests from the outset, I know that these are things that have a reserved effect. [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's wrong! Listen a little! I'm not writing anything!]] That's what I've been looking at. In reality, it is not about the form of organization, but about the change of the system. Dear colleague Neugebauer, you were already in service at the time when I was at school during the 1970s in relation to the integrated general school. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Neugebauer]] Dear colleague Neugebauer, you have read these reports: They were very successful! This has always been done under the table, because from ideology it has not been possible to transfer this school to the general school system. That was really it! At the Langform in Hartberg we had general agreement, including the ÖVP. When we went to Weiz throughout the area, where we took the sub-level, we didn't get it anymore. That is, there was a priority in the thinking of the state. Mr Neugebauer, I must tell you that because both the Federal Minister and you have spoken about the economy and the elites. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Please!]] It's right – I too recognize – that the economy needs well-trained people. But I'm calling you an example from the economy, namely: If today the President of the Deutsche Bank says he has to release 13,000 people, and you ask him why, he says that he has to increase his profit for the stock market margin from 18 percent to 25 percent. If you ask him why, then he says he has to do that so that people can do more. – This is his business approach. If he is then asked what he is doing to people in the economic field, he says: You, I'm not really interested in this, that's what policy is supposed to be for us, it's a national economic approach. Mr Neugebauer, I do not think that this business and economic approach must also apply to schools. I don't think it's our job to just take care of the better students, just to take care of those who can go away that can be brought up and down the sentence. I believe that we are responsible, also have economic responsibility for the students who are not as gifted from home as the others, and that they must also be promoted. [[Abg. Neugebauer: I didn't say that at all!.]] As you would like to call it, the common school simply brings the better conditions for the support of those students who have so far liked us through the rust. It cannot be that in the so highly developed state of Austria, 20 percent cannot read, and if you continue to do so, 50 percent will soon not be able to read and expect. – Friends, think about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42456	Mr Schelling came next. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42477	Mr President. High house! I would like to begin with a comment in the direction of Mr Niederwieser and Mr Brosz: We do not have to decide against a minister or a coalition, but we have to deal here with doing the best for the students and for the young. That's our job! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I quote from the Berlin Declaration of the European Union: “Europe’s wealth lies in the knowledge and ability of its people; this is the key to growth, employment and social cohesion.” – citation. This is not only about knowledge, ladies and gentlemen, but also about skills. This is a very crucial point for our education system, because it is about applied knowledge in the sense of education and in the sense of problem-solving competence. In the framework of the PISA study – the next is already in preparation – only the students were criticized. It should be made clear that PISA does not primarily judge the students, but rather the triangle institution, teacher and student. The areas of responsibility are very clearly defined here: The responsibility for education policy is to look for the quality of the system, the quality of the location is the responsibility of the schools, and the responsibility of the quality of education lies, of course, with the teachers. For the double budget to be decided, more money has now been made available for the classroom. However, the jubilation reports seem to me to be premature, because now the Minister for Finance has come to an end, and she can only cheer up when we see what she is doing with the money and what she has done from this input. A second comment: The stuffing horn, which has now been poured out over the education system, is certainly not an infinitely full one. Therefore, it is urgent to call for the Federal Ministers to speed up and lift the synergistic potentials immediately. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This double budget consumes 85 percent of the additional funds for structural effects and salary increases, but the studies show very clearly that we are significantly lagging behind in terms of the administrative efficiency of the school system in international comparison. In order to increase these efficiencys, much more money should be made available to the school than is now provided for in the double budget. It will therefore be a matter of extending the good system and not constantly triggering the wrong discussions by means of punctual measures. I would therefore propose that, in addition to the PISA study, which is now being carried out, a PISA be introduced for teaching ministers. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] ‘P’ stands for: Start quality assurance projects, “I” stands for: Reforming institutions, “S” stands for: optimize the school system with the students in the centre, and “A” stands for alternatives. – We will observe this output very closely. In conclusion, Mrs Minister, I should like to point out that education policy must not be a playing field for party-political dogmas, but rather, as stated at the outset, is one of the major issues for the future. Solutions in dialogue seem more promising to us than political singles. I would like to quote what you said in committee. You said one of your big goals is: School needs to be fun again. – Mrs Minister, if you continue with these solos, you will become the greatest destroyer.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42556	The next speaker is Mr Rada. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42578	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Although we are discussing and debating the budget, I can't help but look at the statements made by some of my previous speakers. Mr Hauser, if you are talking about ‘student overload’ through the curriculum, then, I say, you do not know the curriculum. The curriculum is not exaggerating! If someone overshadows, then it's the teachers in the field of secondary level 2, where you teach. Teachers there, not the curriculum. This has to be said clearly. When it comes to a common school and the issue of pay is discussed, it is a secondary problem. First of all, we need the legal regulation for this school as a whole. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is not a secondary problem!]] Mr Neugebauer, we have discussed with the performance groups, and we now know from the time of the Integrated General School and from the period of the Reformed Primary School – as it was once called – with these performance groups that especially those students who are somewhere in the 3. have found a service group, no longer had any power incentives. Through our efforts, which we carry out – partly also accelerated by your government with the financial compensation and with the service plan problem – we know that the students of the 3. Performance group integrated with students from 1st and 2nd years old. Performance group achieve excellent results. Therefore, Mrs Minister, this is sure to be a good thing for your pedagogical provocation. We also have satisfactory budget data, at least in the field of compulsory schools, and I would like to address this. If we compare the base 2006 with that of 2007 and 2008 with the encouraging growth, then we must say: Good work, Mrs. Federal Minister, in these few days of your term of office! If we start from this budget, combined with the reduction of the maximum number of school students to 25, we can also make many of our young teachers, who have not found a place of teaching after the completion of the Educational Academy, no place of service, hope that they will get one again. Of course we also have problems, which has already been discussed today: The maximum number 25 will pose problems for some students. We need more classrooms. That is also the answer to Mr Brosz's question, why not sit immediately and everywhere in one class. I ask you, Mr Deputies: How are mayors, schoolholders and the federal government to realize all of this in this short period of time? But fewer students alone do not provide better education. There is a great deal of room to be created in this area in order to address the individualisation of teaching as much as possible. We have written this down in our curriculums. But there were always too many students to individualize. – Now we have fewer students and now we also expect this individualization to be carried out for the students, as prescribed by the law and curriculum.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42617	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42639	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear visitors to the gallery! High house! Art and culture have a high priority in Austria – and I really mean, all over Austria. With all appreciation for the cultural institutions in Vienna, we must not forget the numerous institutions in the federal states. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My colleague Morak has already explained that around 85 percent of the cultural and art budget is reserved for cultural institutions in Vienna. But we in the province also have excellent cultural institutions, which at least also work cheaper and more efficient – and they must be supported and promoted accordingly by the federal government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have already put a question to the Minister during the discussions on the cultural budget in the Committee. I was particularly concerned with the promotion of the Salzburg Festival and with any budget cuts for 2008. Fortunately, I was assured that no cuts will be made and that the 5.2 million for 2007 and – of course I assume, Mrs. Minister – will be available for 2008. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] You need to know, the Salzburg Festival is an important engine for our federal state. They employ around 5,000 people in the summer. In addition to the economic factor, this means, of course, many jobs and thus the security of life for many people. But not only high culture is my heart, but also the work of the many small cultural institutions in our federal states must be supported accordingly and in time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Unfortunately, there were massive problems with us in Salzburg too. But here too, Mrs Minister, you assured me in writing that most of the subsidies requested on the basis of the current comprehensive budget provisories have been approved as a bridge subsidy – and I hope they have already been issued. I think that's just good and cheap. The dedicated people in the numerous cultural institutions deserve to be promoted instead of being downgraded into bitters, especially because of their culture make it possible for all of us to experience at the highest level. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42705	The next speaker is Mr Elmar Mayer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42729	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion is exciting when you have to deal with students every day. I am lucky to be able to teach as a reserve teacher, as a so-called jumper, as well as three hours of a week as a Member of Parliament – unless there are budgetary consultations – every day – whether people's schools, primary schools or special schools, and thus what we discuss here, advise and decide, live on the spot. I say to you, ladies and gentlemen: The picture out there is quite different than it is partly drawn here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] I am glad that at last at the schools again – and that is the decisive thing: What are the teachers, how do the teachers stand, then finally the parents to this school? How do they escape? – is a completely new mood. No more Gehrer depression, that all say: It's back and forth! How are the references going forward? And so on. It is for the first time – and for me, which I have also experienced the era of Sinowatz as a young teacher – once again a real start in schools. Teachers are happy. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's not that much about getting a euro more. Rather, it is about knowing: We have a minister, we have a government standing at school behind the school that fights for the school. – That will also be what we need if it means: Make fit for school, motivate for school! Then we have to start with ourselves, namely by spiritually pave the way there. It hurts me when I know that colleague Franz, who will then be speaking, sends a letter to all primary school teachers asking: Help us get our externally differentiated school system! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] Mrs Franz, I say to you: It is the daily practice I experience at schools that teachers react differently. The first primary school teacher asked: You, what's the point of what they're writing me? Do you know what the interviewer answered? – I may briefly quote: What does the early selection bring? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Should the union officials put forth effort!]] – folk school teachers who write 100 percent “Very good” to almost all children in order to avoid the enormous parental pressure; overshadowed children who are abandoned by pedagogically unsuspecting professors; Millions of follow-up funds paid to carry out the Spössling; urban waste schools producing social aid as a social biotope. And so on. Mrs Franz, continues in this reply, I can no longer hear the talk of the diversity of education. A system of education, invented by noble and newly-rich citizens to ensure their supremacy, is defended with teeth and claws. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Why is that? Why is one not prepared by the ÖVP to face this new challenge more openly? – I tell you: It is indeed the interfaces that we have discussed, which unfortunately remains too little time for now, when entering school, but also when it comes to the transition of folk school, primary school, gymnasium. All the world says – you don't need to study, and all the studies confirm that –: This time is too early! The results also show it. The problems we have were precisely produced with this school system. [[Congratulations to the SPÖ and congratulations to Members of the Greens.]] Why are you not open and say: We are going this new way, this early selection we will leave out in order to get a new, modern school in the future, which will then also allow us to achieve the goals that we all – and that I now suppose – want, that all children, regardless of their social origin, get the best promotion!Unknown term type: "%s".? The good should be more demanding and the weaker should be encouraged accordingly. This can only be done in a well differentiated common school. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42809	Mr Principality is the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42830	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is one thing in common between the debates on reforms in the school system: the often separating one. It is not, as so often spread in the media and by other colleagues, the ideological barriers that make up the separator, but rather it is the eerie variety of needs. Each of us went to school once. Many of us have children or perhaps even grandchildren who attend school. The needs of students and parents, whether they are in urban or rural areas, whether they are employed or not, whether they are single or not, are different for each individual, and something else is important for each individual. And where does the quality remain? Is there a levelling down or up in the debate on the whole school? [[Abg. Broukal: Unique leveling up!]] What do we want to make it easier for whom? I think that the debate on education must be both about the need to meet the needs and the quality of training. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Both must constantly develop and adapt to the modern worlds of life. I therefore welcome the measures taken to ensure quality in this educational budget. With the reduction of the maximum number of students, the educational quality is improved. The demographic minus, which will arise in the coming years, can be removed from the workforce of teachers, for example. The increase in student support and the expansion of the group of students will motivate even more students to improve their services accordingly so that their families have a right to financial support. An important topic in many schools is the integration of students with non-German mother tongue. Children who do not have German skills need special support in order not to reduce the quality of training for the others. I think we should discuss this quite emotionally: If more than a third of students in a class can hardly or only very poorly control the German language and cannot follow the teaching, then this has a negative impact on the quality of the teaching and learning contents. This has nothing to do with xenophobia, but only with the further development of the quality of training, for all children, including those who still have difficulties with German. As the mayor and thus the location holder and school owner of a small country school, I am of course very, very important to ensure the location in the rural area. Small schools in particular bear witness to the diversity, regional diversity and the preservation of personal needs. In addition, I am convinced that the quality of training is particularly high in small schools, and it must not suffer, but must continue to be improved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is therefore important to invest in regional needs and in addition to ensuring that infrastructure is improved to the extent that these schools will continue to remain in the future. The small communities alone cannot do this, they also need the support of the federal government, that is, our joint support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42879	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42900	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Principal, allow me only the page-by-page note that not only children of non-German native language can have problems with German. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Children with German native language too!]] I can serve you as a mother of a legasthenic child here with suffering stories. – But that was just a page note. Mrs. Federal Minister, after the few weeks you have been in office, you feel that there is a fresh wind in art and cultural policy. You have succeeded in increasing the art budget, negotiating a higher art budget, and I find it extremely sympathetic if you do not go into self-congratulation here, but say: Although I've managed, I'm too little, I'd like to get out of here in the next few years! I would like to assure you that you will also have our support in the coming years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Money is a lot, money is an important base, of course everywhere, even in the cultural and art business, but it is also about more: It is about the climate that is changing, and here you can already feel change. It's about appreciation, it's about openness, it's about interest, and even there's been a great need for more air and space to breathe in recent years, and I think you're on the right track, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Personally, it is also a great pleasure for you to place a focus on cultural mediating in order to increase participation, in order to create more opportunities for people from more remote layers of education. I think that's very important. We have also missed that in recent years. And I also think it is particularly important that you want to use and use your dual competence here, namely that you are responsible for schools and culture, and that they want to create links to bring children more into culture already in schools. I personally also find the fresh wind in the debt debate very, very pleasing, I would also like to say that I also very much welcome the fact that there is also a start in other parties that models are being discussed, including in non-SPÖ-led federal states. I don't see the slightest kind of chaos in here at all. On the contrary: After the distressing downfall of the last years, there is finally a gratifying mood of departure. And on this path, Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to continue to wish you all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42949	The next item is Mrs Franz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e42970	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, Mr Faul: You give the teachers a bad witness when you say: Bad students are not promoted accordingly! I believe that our teachers, especially those in the primary schools, are very committed and very committed to taking the poor, the weak ones by the hand and promoting them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Why do we have so many bad students?]] To Mr Mayer I would like to say: They act as if the entire school were the sole cure for all the problems we have. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mayer.]] I do not believe that this will solve the problems, especially the language problems that exist here, because it is precisely the language early promotion that we need to intensify. It's not like all of this can be solved with the entire school. I also believe that it takes a modern service right to have motivated, committed teachers – a modern service right with a salary system that changes the life earnings curve that has a powerful share. I believe that something needs to be done in this direction first. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] My main focus is language early promotion, because I believe that this is important, because the language is the key to education and also the key to integration. This is why language early promotion is an essential part of the education career and of the entire future life of a human being. In this context, I would like to point out exemplary initiatives by various municipalities in Vorarlberg, where language promotion is very important. You start here very early, namely with grandchildren and their parents or mothers, who also very often do not control the German language. For example, in the school year 2006/2007, with a generous promotion of the country of tailor-made student care, which is flexible, needs-oriented and location-oriented, the linguistic problems were also put to the fore. In addition, special pupils – these are students with a lack of German skills who cannot follow the teaching – are specifically and intensively helped in all stages of the compulsory school, both the primary school and the polytechnic schools. In addition, the following comments were made: I am convinced that the form of organization in schools is not the most important. I mean, school quality is determined by other factors. Language promotion is therefore a central concern in the field of education, because it is above all a preventive measure, because often it is the unemployed young people who have a lack of German knowledge. We are on a good path, and the reduction of the maximum number of students is also an important and enjoyable step. It is therefore necessary to continue this course consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43029	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43050	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! My previous speaker spoke of the need to take weak students by the hand. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important to me – and I now see that the right steps are being taken in the education system – that weak students be encouraged to recruit additional teachers, because only taking advantage of them alone is too little to teach young people what they need in our society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: A picture in the language will still be allowed!]] I believe that the discussion on school is a very important discussion, and I am therefore pleased that many areas of society are, so to speak, alert to this discussion, bring proposals and put in place new measures. The Minister of Education's budget also shows that in the education sector, the doors have now widened and that fresh air, as it were, enters the system. And this can only be good for the children and for the teachers and above all can bring something to society. I would like to come to another area where there is, so to speak, ventilation. Culture contributes to the so-called ventilation of society, and now fresh air intake in our country is turned on in the cultural field. I would like to focus on two issues. First: Mediation of art and culture, so that it is possible to co-operate and art and culture are made not only for a few in society. Secondly, Focus on a forward-looking cultural policy. I would like to write to all the previous speakers of the other parties who are concerned about how the regionalisation of the art and cultural projects takes place: It is important that we make all measures, all cultural policies, all offers. If you are talking about regionalization here, Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler, speaking at the Salzburg Festival, then I think you certainly want to go further, because it is also important that people become culturally creative that they can get involved in cultural projects. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A project is to bring culture to school, namely: ‘Culture makes school’. For this there is additional money, plus € 17 million. This is very important in order to make art experiences low-swallowable by a target group that will enter the system as art and culture customers for tomorrow. And here it is important to make art experienceable and understandable, making people especially enthusiastic for art and culture. And there you are, Mrs. Minister, the best guarantee that this can continue. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] An important point is also to bring clear structures into the system, to make clear rules so that better and more successful use of the resources and thus, fresh air intake is ensured so that the “quarries” cultural policy is finally put to an end.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43105	Mr Grossruck is the next speaker. Speaking time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43126	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Since my speaking time is short and limited – not me, but only the speaking time, ladies and gentlemen, at least I assume – I want to start with a cartoon. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Only the speaking time!]] It says yes: A picture says more than a thousand words. Today is a cartoon in the “Wiener Zeitung” – you’ll probably have seen it – and it’s surrogated with the words “Wiener Pedagogy! ” She is shown as the actor of a Kasperl Theatre, and there is a speech bubble, where she says: “Children, do you all want to go to school?- Oh, my God! – Otherwise the evil Nikolo comes!!” [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I think this cartoon says a lot about the discussion we are now holding. It is not a cultural and educational policy, ladies and gentlemen, when I forbid in Vienna that Nikolo comes into kindergartens. [[Abg. May. Lap: That's not true!]] It is not a cultural and educational policy policy policy if I am exclusively concerned about the overall school: yes or no? but I think we're all on the right path: Discussion is necessary! A well-known educational scientist has said that education policy is like a large tanker in the ocean. You can't make small corrections, and if you put them in the wrong direction, then the ship goes in the wrong direction, in the wrong direction. We have seen in the past, especially in the 1970s, what was going on with the education policy when our children were forced to teach quantities. Then they all have to learn to work, much to resist many, and so on and so on. The school must not be an experimentation field for theoretical education scientists, but the school must be the place of training for our children and for learning, for lifelong learning. And that is, I think, the most important thing we have, Mrs. Federal Minister. And I am glad that there is a continuity in education policy, in education policy, even though it is said in a magazine: ‘The turn in education policy is here’. By the way, this is an interview by you. I've read this through and I can say: The ten points mentioned here are particularly important. I agree with everything you have said, for this is the continuation of what the unfortunately revered Federal Minister Gehrer has also done so often. [[Demonstratetive applause with SPÖ]] They will still insist that she has made an excellent policy. Anyone who makes reforms is not always popular, we know, he is being reproached, but reforms are necessary. And the Federal Minister, with her ten points, wants the following: First: Class schooling reduction on 25. – That's what we want! Secondly, To strengthen vocational training. – That's what we all want, I suppose. Thirdly, more places to care. – That’s what we want! Fourth: Publication of an educational report 2008. – Well, it probably won’t be very important as a teacher, but it may be necessary as a comparison for others. Fifth, you open a bottle Focus on lifelong learning. – Now, who doesn't want it?- Oh, my God! That's what we want! Sixteenths: Large project Educational universities. – This was initiated by the reform of the educational academies, as they have previously called. 7th: Intensification of integration efforts. – We have even committed that by law. That's what we want! Eighth: To think of education, innovation and employment as a whole. - Well, who doesn't want to?- Oh, my God! Nineteenths: Together with Minister Hahn’s project “Culture forms democracy”. Tenths: Emphasis on the importance of cultural and artistic education. With all this, I am full of you, Madam Minister, but I am still looking for you for the following: See that in addition to training for professional qualifications – and we are good at finding out what we can if we look at all the professional Olympics – cultural training is also given a greater priority. I always say, It is a poor one that can not begin with art and culture in life too little. But the foundation for this is laid in school. If I don't have a musical education, I can't expect to like a nice piece of Mozart or Bruckner or whatever they may be called. Then I don't have access to modern music either. The same applies at the level of visual education. I think there are also priorities set in the school to train people for the joys of culture and art. And that's supposed to happen at school! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Broukal.]] It is a poor one who does not have this access; I would like to say that. He just doesn't know what he's missing. That's the tragedy! I think that's where we all agree. Ladies and gentlemen, I have covered my speaking time a little bit. [[Abg. Broukal: Please have a four-liner!]] . So I fully emphasize the ten points, and you also have our support for that, because this is a continuation of the education policy we have launched. I come to the conclusion: A four-liner, ladies and gentlemen; I do it very quickly. Yesterday we discussed in the Health Committee, and Mrs Glawischnig – she is not here today – has called for abortion on a health certificate and said: Actually, pregnancy is the same as a traffic accident, which is not a disease! I thought about it, ladies and gentlemen: Absorbation on a health certificate calls for Mrs. Glavischnig, and thinks in full mind, whether Autocrash, whether pregnancy, it doesn't matter to her, because both are a traffic accident.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43213	In order to make a corrective statement, the honourable Member has the power to do so. Kuntzl. Mrs Colleague, I would like to draw your attention to § 58 of the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43238	Mr President. I know I'm not allowed to say anything to this four-liner, I'm very sorry. Mr Grossruck spoke of an Nikolo ban in the Vienna kindergartens. I'm actually putting it right: There is, of course, no Nikolo ban in the Vienna kindergartens. There are Nikolo celebrations in the Vienna kindergartens. However, no non-domestic Nikolos are brought, but people familiar to the children dress up.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43276	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. Second word. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43298	I have already spoken in the past, but now it fits perfectly in. Member Glawischnig, Third President of the National Council, has requested: Prevention of health certificate and abortion on health certificate, because abortion on health certificate is necessary for all those women who are not otherwise possible and who are in emergency situations. [[Call the ÖVP: Absorption!]] What is not right is that Mrs Glawischnig said that everyone should have that now and that is quite easy and that is not a problem at all. There are women in this country who unfortunately depend on it, and there are also emergency situations where there is no other way, and we have spoken of them, and nothing else. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I wanted to repeat is a supplement to the theme “total school”, because here the waves go so high. First: The general school in the school sector has never questioned anyone. That's funny. That's where everyone's all right. There's no problem at all. Secondly, Total schools already exist in Austria. Look at those primary schools where the next middle school is very far away. For example, in Mariazell, an overall school is an excellent school in which all children go to school. So please do not claim that with an overall school only downwards are levelled! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43338	The next speaker was Mrs Hlavac. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43360	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to refer back to the art and culture chapter and to take advantage of the opportunity to see how pleased it is that the competences are reunited in a department. This allows a much better, more manageable and more coordinated policy. On the finances: Of course, there is no question that you can wish for more and more. And the Federal Minister herself has also said that she would like to have more money for art and culture. But it is quite clear: There is a positive trend. The areas of film, media art and photography are also higher. This is, I think, very important for the young Austrian film. The same applies to literature and publishing, cultural initiatives, monument protection, publishing and adult education. So that means: There is still more money in large areas than it has been, and this is very encouraging. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I believe that it is also important to use the existing resources in a meaningful and targeted manner. Unfortunately, I come back to an old subject, namely the Art History Museum, where this has unfortunately not been the case for a long time and where Mr Seiel continues to be the director. However, a new commercial director has now been put to his side, and I expect the funds to be used more meaningfully, more targetedly and more correctly. But what is very important to me in connection with the KHM is, of course, the content page. I remember – unfortunately, it was very symptomatic – in the Rubens Jahre it was reflected to the public, there was a new exhibition, a special exhibition on this subject. In reality, it was only the pictures that were always hung in the KHM before, except for two loans. So it also needs to change a lot of content. The Federal Minister has already referred to the novelle on the Federal Museum Act, and I believe that this is also a very important thing that there must be the possibility of achieving more synergies, having an overall concept, not to compete with each other, but to work together. I am convinced that we are now going a good way in art politics, that we have a minister who is with a lot of love for art and with a lot of expertise at work, and therefore see a very positive development.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43411	The next item is the speech by Mr Pack. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43432	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Lapp has said so much about the “fresh wind”, the “new wind” and the “fresh air” that it seems that the woman minister was too boring the debate and that she has already gone. That's a shame, but she might find a few thoughts in the fresh air. In principle, one must insist: It is a good budget that we have in the field of art and cultural policy, so we can be quite satisfied. That you can achieve more or want more is also quite clear, that is a no-na-net question. Interesting is the following: The Minister has said today that she will never make a policy of either-or, but only a policy of both. If you look at the budget and see how the funds are distributed, then you can't see it. There are a few points, such as the creative economy, where the government programme has a very beautiful preamble, namely that the creative economy is of particular importance as an interface of economy and culture for cultural production in Austria, which is not reflected in the budget. Next example: You can hear how important young art is. But the Minister does not consider this to be so important, because she rather pumpes the money into the cultural tank and Forgets that this is not really the stage for the young artists. The previous debates were always interesting, but I have to say one thing as an Electoral Officer: It is nice that there is so much money going into the federal capital, but it really can't be that you pump everything into the water head Vienna and forget about the great regional cultural initiatives. To some other previous speakers who have always spoken of “new wind”, “fresh wind” – these expressions remain with me – and of a change and that everything is so great and so good, I may say: In the Styria there is also one who has always said it will be much different, much better. Nothing has gotten better in the final effect, but much worse. This can be seen, for example, in the field of education in Styria. In spite of the many tasks he has as such, the President of the State School Council must also sit as SPÖ representatives in the Federal Council – apparently he has too few tasks in school policy – so that he can fatten his salary accordingly. I do not think this is correct in the sense of education policy in Styria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43478	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43499	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the National Council! It has been a long time since Mr Zinggl said here how disappointed he is about the arts and culture budget and that he sees no innovation and that all the cultural initiatives will die. [[Call to the Greens: That's what he said today!]] – Today, in the debate a long time ago, I meant. Mr Kickl, in turn, spoke of the destruction of Austrian folk culture. To do this, I have to say: I can calm both my colleagues, because none of them corresponds to the truth. I invite you – including colleagues Pack: Look If you are serious about the budget, look at what the very dedicated Mrs Federal Minister stands for! Then you will realize that one of the priorities of Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied is clearly the promotion of young contemporary art, but also the regional funding of her is very, very important – that is also seen at the budget item – and that she is also a very important concern to preserve the cultural heritage. I think that all this is a responsible cultural policy, because responsible cultural policy is to preserve, above all, diversity. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Cultural policy must also be a guarantee of tolerance, and for me, cultural policy is also an essential part of the social-political self-understanding of people. That is why I also believe that it is very, very important to allow all people cultural participation, regardless of the social environment. That is why I am very happy and very happy that the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs is also taking important steps in this very important matter, namely to increase the offer in schools with the project “Culture makes School” which has already been discussed today. In addition to reducing financial barriers to access, I think that the interest of children and young people in art and culture must be aroused very early. Mrs Federal Minister Schmied is an excellent Minister for Culture and Education, because I see she takes the concerns and problems of cultural workers very seriously and also treats them with absolute appreciation. I personally believe that this is a very, very good sign for art and cultural policy. I'd like to make some advertising on my own. Today we open the large national exhibition Niederösterreichs in Waidhofen and in St. Peter, and I invite all my colleagues to attend this exhibition. This exhibition clearly shows that culture and art can also happen in the regions. I agree with you, Mr Pack. It has also been very, very much done in the context of this national exhibition: People have dealt with the history of the region, but many cultural initiatives have also taken part in this national exhibition, and above all the people in the region have also contributed to this national exhibition. I think it should also be art and culture to deal with one's own world of life, with the most diverse forms of art, with the most diverse media. And that is exactly what Mrs Federal Minister Schmied meant when she said “both as well”. Because art is diversity – and not simplicity.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43542	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Huainigg. I put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43563	Mr President. Minister! High house! It has already been said: Art makes school. I would also like to say that integration does school. The school as a pure place of education, to see knowledge transfer is too little. Other skills must also be learned and lived, such as social skills, as the economy demands. The experience of shared teaching is very positive, and we should use this experience for all students and also create the appropriate framework conditions for individualised teaching. Only in this way can the basis be created for a common life in the professional world and in society. The key to this is the training of teachers. This year, the new educational universities will be opened, and here, too, the integration into the curriculum will be integrated, so that all graduates will no longer be able to say that they have no experience in teaching with disabled children. Col. Haidlmayr has criticized that there is no possibility of school integration after the eighth level. This is not right because we have created inclusive vocational training, and here too we have had very good experience, even with the involvement of vocational schools. 2 800 integrative teaching contracts give a good picture and show that the economy is also involved here. Mr Niederweiser and I have tabled a motion for a resolution asking the Minister for Education to give Parliament legal measures to continue school integration after the eighth level. I believe that this option should be extended, including in secondary and higher schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43606	Mrs Schittenhelm spoke as the last speaker on this subject. I also place the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43628	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the statements made by the Green Member, Zinggl, who here expressed his disappointment at the creation of the cultural budget, which the SPÖ has not enforced, et cetera. I can only say this, Mr Zinggl: If you have believed the election promises of your mother party SPÖ, you are to blame yourself. - That's just ahead. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: What does “Mother Party” mean?]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You think that was a good and funny remark?]] High house! Art needs the support of the public hand; no question. This support can be found in this 2007/2008 budget: €228.4 million for 2007 and €231.8 million for 2008. The fact that 50 percent of the cultural budget goes to Vienna alone and not even the Bundestheatergesellschaft is here – because here the city of Vienna pays no cent in, but only the federal government, although the value creations from these houses are very likely to remain in the Federal Capital of Vienna – that is another story. I could ask provocatively here: Where are the other federal states? I could also ask: Where do the more than 400 cultural initiatives, 100 from Lower Austria alone? And I could also ask the question: Where is the promotion of regional culture? – I do not, however, because, as mayor and as a long-standing countryman, I know the cultural responsibility of both the municipalities and the federal states. Thank God! And it's true, too, it's okay. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] When I look at Lower Austria alone: The Federal State of Lower Austria alone has 90 million € in the Kulturbudget 2007! 90 million, ladies and gentlemen, a huge sum! And many artists also settle in Lower Austria because they feel comfortable there – at home with us. Apart from the great investments and acquisitions in the Caricature Museum Krems, the Nitsch Museum will soon be opened, we have the Fröhner Museum, the construction of the Grafenegg Cultural Centre, the Lower Austria Cultural Area in the former Palais Lower Austria and much more, apart from the national exhibitions that have become an economic and tourism engine in the regions. High house! We need freedom of art, we need dialogue, and above all we need the dialogue of international and regional cultural development. But we also need, and this is undisputed in order to accomplish all of this, the professionalization of the cultural business through the development of business culture. In this sense, I believe that this budget, negotiated by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is a good budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43701	In part, I don't have any words left. This concludes this subject area. [[12:38:59]] Science and research Chapter 14: Science and research
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43733	We are now coming to the negotiation of the science and research section, chapter 14. I would ask Mr Greenewald to open this debate. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43758	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! With a certain horror, I remember yesterday's call for the intercession of the former Federal Chancellor Schüssel: “No grace for...”! – So I don't want to start a contra speech and I'd do it a little more differentiated now. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: It's not about grace, it's about the budget!]] – grace is always about people, Mrs. Brinek, and people are, as you know, all. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not at the budget!]] A budget is also written by people, and a budget also falls to the people either in the lap or on the head. Please take this into account. I believe that if one considers it differentiated, Mr Neugebauer, it will not be possible for one to look back a little in the past and compare what progress is now. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer]] Whenever it came to science and research, the government was relatively generous with a vocabulary that was brought to our ears perpeaurately: Milestones, age laws, orientation on the best, quantum jumps, however short they are. That was, as it were, the way the Federal Government spoke. But what would have been required of science to review theories, plans, strategies on the fitness of reality, the government has completely failed. And when we look at: What is the progress now? – The universities got a little more money, yes. But what was the consequence of the recent years, where there has been a budget collapse, where the number of students has fallen, where the share of the university budget in GDP has been shown to have fallen – even though the government has always said that it is not? These were additional costs of disseminating, additional costs of separating the medicine from the universities. This has led to the need for universities to save on personnel, equipment replacement, new purchases and innovations. The libraries even had to return to their opening hours. Even courses of study were saved – not a few in the number – under the fatal motto: Not “Not Makes Inventive”, but what Makes Need? – In times of saving, some feel driven to distinguish between useful and equally necessary and superfluous. And who were the sufferers? – These were humanities and cultural sciences, critical social sciences – where the usefulness of some in politics might not be visible the next day – and they were saved. This has also been your domain or your study, Mr. Federal Minister. There have also been further collapses in the research fund, after all, the largest and most serious institution that promotes basic research in Austria. They had project allocations of well over 70 percent, not any projects, but internationally excellently evaluated projects, with awarded projects, projects also with high priority. This research fund employs and pays 2,000 young scientists. Yeah, now we've got more money, but the only question is: Does this money bet these broken gaps again – or can it do something? [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] The universities say that after they have to save some 5 to 10 percent of the personnel costs to stop these holes in order to upgrade libraries to be able to make necessary repairs to equipment and equipment and to recover suspended investments and innovations, they will just come out with this money to close these holes. That means we're on the status quo of a few years ago – better than nothing. I am also grateful, is also good, but the pick-up process of Austrian universities internationally will not accelerate this in principle. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What was massively annoyed was that all these facts – presented not only by the rectors, but also by the young researchers, by the students, by the rectors' conference, by the Council of Science and by all the others – have been removed: Everything's wrong, everything's not right! Also OECD know-how data, which demonstrates my statements, and the rankings that prove this, have not been taken into account. So, I have to say, as a greener, I am even happy about some climate change when it happens in the heads. And some signs become visible there. A decrease in the ice of the glaciers in the upper part can be seen somewhere. Whether this is enough for the big changeover is another question. But I cannot spare you that because in recent years, in Austria, we have kindly spread the coat of silence, forgotten everything and not talked about it. You can't ask me to do that. Also – then, of course, you are right – if we say: The Austrians were always in the process of forgetting and concealing! – Then I could go this way, so to speak, but I don’t want to. Mr Federal Minister, I have certain doubts that this budget will be sufficient to achieve these high objectives which the government and others would like to achieve. I am excited whether vocations that for years could not be carried out at the highest level because simply the money for the structure of a vocation, for the environment of a vocation has failed, whether post-occupies of posts, whether support relationships can be brought to students at international level. Why? When I look at how many students per university teacher meets in Austria, I notice that we are clearly behind the EU section. To achieve the EU section – I am not talking about world class at all – would say it and write probably almost 2,000 university teachers more. And we will, I admit, hardly be able to finance it. We must also remember that the fund for the promotion of scientific research in Austria, compared with its sister funds, the Swiss National Foundation or the German Research Foundation, cannot even have half of these budgets. This means that comparable institutions have the two to threefold – corrected by the number of inhabitants of course. I can only hope more happens here. It is also very interesting for the study grants that 12 percent is spoken. You probably need avalanches or dogs or what I know to find the sources of these budgets, which actually record 12 percent. I really don't find them! A bit annoying – with all sympathy – is in this context the listing in today’s “standard”. No one can believe in the 12 percent. And when you say, It doesn't matter who this is from!, so to speak – perhaps a little critical now – there should be no picture of it. You could've left that out. It is interesting that, of course, students are expected to receive family allowances, so that the 12 percent over-all will certainly not vote. However, many have meant that the number of students receiving aid is growing by 12 percent. Not even the quietest track of that. The inflation rate in particular is approximately covered. But I also say here: Better than nothing! The research fund wanted cluster of excellence. They cost something. He wanted overheads for young researchers at the universities, i.e. payments for laboratory equipment and so on. That's where you have to start, as well as Schrödinger scholarships. I do not agree with your will, but we are not at the end of the flag rod. Finally – since the red light is already warning –: The decisive is not just the money, but the motivation. And here, with a reasonable innovation of the university law, you can achieve almost free of charge a lot at universities, giving people perspectives, more integrated them into a common image of the university and in common goals. At the end of the day, I am addressing the necessary collective agreement. It is not up to young people to keep their noses in front of them, so to speak, but to offer them prospects. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was the edellinger with the crack sausage!]] And the financing of a collective contract, I say now warning, cannot be postponed to 2009. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Better a crunch sausage than a carrot!]] – Carrots and crack sausages, Mr. colleague, do not play a central role in science. If you're not aware of this, I'll tell you now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43854	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Brinek. Speech time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e43875	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Estimated Mr. Grünewald, which connects us – almost in response to Karl Kraus, speaking in terms of German-Austria – is the different view of a differentiated judgment. You, Mr Greenewald, asked: What is progress? – More money for universities! I mean, you can take the budget issue by hand, you can study other documents: The funds for science and research increase by 8.1 percent in 2007, by 10.1 percent in 2008. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I never denied!]] Mr President, is this a step forward? – Only the fact that the universities were in the process of concluding their first performance agreements in 2006/07 and thus entering into the time of the global budget and having three years of planning security in order to be able to have more than 14 percent more resources, while – we are in international competition – in other countries, in Germany, for example, entire universities need to be concluded is progress. Germany is not exactly a developing country, either, if the word is not “politically incorrect”. We invest more than 500 million in the infrastructure in universities. Go to the University of Vienna, go to the farm there: You will see a magical jewelry castle after a renovation that has been started by Minister Gehrer. So please: If that's not progress, I don't know. We can continue our philosophy of progress, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Research does not take place in arcades, Mrs. Colleague!]] The number of students and the overall development of students is also a success story: the highest number of students ever reached, both at the beginning and at the end. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: How many do we have?]] 250,000. Mr. Col., you should know that in your sleep, too, don't you? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I think you slept with the numbers!]] No, no! You should know that, even in sleep: 250,000 students. There is also an increase in students at the vocational colleges. And you said a break-in! – You know exactly, Mr Grünewald, that the “intrusion” was connected – no, “mapile” you said! – with a statistical adjustment around the people who were no longer at the universities themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Karteileichen!]] And whoever ever was at the university after the introduction of the study contributions, knew that more students were sitting in the lecture hall because they asked for active courses and study offers. For the “drama” you always want to write about the humanities. – The Minister can then still comment himself. At the University of Vienna, of 70 000 students are 40 000 in the field of human and cultural sciences. If that's not convincing evidence that the humanities don't have to sing the "death-and-end" song, then I don't know! Therein lies progress! The progress is also due to the fact that Minister Hahn and Mr Kranzl are responsible for the Science Fund, that we are commuting to a 40 percent permit there, that we have a 10 percent overhead commitment there, that we have a total commitment to increasing the funds, and that with the Research Fund, we can, in addition to other excellence programmes such as the ISTA, open up students' research and scientific practice opportunities that they had never before. The mobility programmes are booming. We will be celebrating an Erasmus anniversary in the near future. Austria is at the forefront of mobility programmes that students visit and practice themselves. Austria is at the forefront when it comes to contacts and research projects and is about to issue invitations and cooperate with regard to individual university agreements, cultural agreements, but also standardized programmes. I am still pleased that we can see today that with the good budget, with the increased budget, we can join to a good practice, to a good result of the previous years. Fortunately, the number of young scientists has also increased – above all – in – as a number of young scientists. Mr Grünewald, as you have said, there are problems in the vocations at the universities: That's only partly true again. – keyword: differentiated judgment. – If a university decides to share the volume, the resource of an ordination and give two young scientists the chance, there is not only colleague broukal of a sense with me, there you should also be on my side. In other words, from case to case, the university may transform, transform, and may also give young scientists a chance to do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In reality, we are on the right track. The academic rate has tripled in recent times. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: tripled?- Oh, my God!]] Yes! – This is a good advice, and I therefore cannot understand certain songs of complaint to the students, because they sometimes compare apples with pears, because they cannot compare countries, nations that have one or no dual education system, which has a different type of vocational training, another type of vocational training arrangements. What I would like to ask the Federal Minister is: I read in the “Progress”, a student newspaper, on 24. April, the Federal Chancellor in Brussels – I gather – will solve everything in the sense of what it is called here, the German students' storms at the Medical Union. Did he tell you what he did in Brussels? Or does that agree with another quote where he said he was going to Brussels, but the work has to be done by the Minister of Science? Now I would have really been interested in what has become of it – compare: ‘On 24 March 2016, the Commission adopted a Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Moldova on the I also have a suggestion as a Vienna Member in this regard. The Wiener SPÖ, the Wiener Stadtverwaltung considers free travel on the Vienna lines for social assistance recipients. I suggest that this could also apply to the students. In reality, these are the ones that benefit the city. Not only that young, well-known people there consume, live, enrich life in every respect, the benefit is there on both sides. – Ladies and gentlemen, let us stop that. Maybe there'll be an answer soon. The budgetary increase in science and research is significant without ‘advanced eyeglasses’: between 8 percent and 14 percent when you look at the research. Of course, in order to achieve the 3% of GDP, we still need to invest. We will do this – and this as a small conclusion – by continuing to focus on the promotion of young people, on the collective treaty, but not only through the KV, and I am very glad that the Minister of Science has already presented a 10-point programme for the promotion of women in science. If we go to work, progress will in all cases be recognizable and experienceable! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44002	The next item is the report by Mr Graf. He made a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44024	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! – Mr Federal Minister, how are you doing after you do not have part of the tertiary education sector in your department? – But I think you can do quite well, because I am saying that the budget is very pleasing in the tertiary education sector as a whole. You can always make things better. Of course, you can always do everything with more budget resources. The question will also be pretty slow: Do some institutions actually have much more money inflows? You always have to do it well. Some already do, some don't. In the field of tertiary education, the whole need to be seen in a more differentiated way. Money, I believe, is more available in this budget for the tertiary education sector and also for science, even for the basics - I mean, these limits are all flowing - than in the past. And it is also spent more on the public hand in the two areas, especially on the federal side. The question is whether it is actually spent and what it is spent on. You know one of my subjects that I repeatedly address, and my criticism will not fail as long as there is still a chance to change something here. On the other hand, the fact that we still have massive demands in some areas is, on the other hand, that we use money for elitist educational institutions or scientific research institutes, such as the elite university or whatever name you give it, I think it is the wrong way. I don't think that excellence, elites and science works in such a way that you peel out, get the best done, maybe also plant with the best resources in some quiet place, and that you think you have the chance to expect a Nobel Prize or something great at some point. That doesn't even say the upper protagonist Haim Harari, who said six weeks ago in his interviews, all those who expect anything from the Eliteuniversität Gugging project before 2015, are on the way. I know we have to do politics that lasts over generations, but on the other hand: I'd like it a little bit more. In the beginning, the promises made were as follows: This will not cost the public hand, it will do the industry and the economy alone! – You even said that €290 million was reserved for budget information. That means it'll cost you! This promise, which was originally given, is obviously not correct. I thought of myself from home, too: If I want to do something as an industry or economy, and I am thinking only of not using public funds, why don't I make a private university? – Now we know: because you just tap the public hand. I tell you, that's the wrong way, because it's only going to be great there, Elitaires happen where there's a biotope of width and where you can see where the top is, where that's from which you can stand. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is being seen by me, also in the Western world, but almost all over the world. In Austria you go the other way. There you make real estate projects, into which you sink money, and say afterwards, headline: ‘Scientific research’. I understand this a little differently. On the other hand... – Well, to the project Eliteuniversity for example. [[Abg. Broukal: What are you playing on?]] Is a big broking of the next few years, that must be said as well. I think this is the wrong way. We have 21 universities that are excellent and that can also be better equipped so that the corresponding elites, which everyone imagines as he wants, can be achieved. But it's supposed to happen at an autonomous university. The Freedom Party is in favour of the research-led teaching in Austria. We have a little suspicion that this principle, which has been in force for more than 140 years in Central European and Austrian countries, is at risk, as is the effortlessly fought free access to higher education. I read there – and everyone who has worked on it – that there are now up to 35 courses of study, which have limited access to higher education, regardless of the “German wave” that, as I once claimed cynically, is only played so high because it is German students. If it were Turkish or other students, the SPÖ would probably be much quieter in this matter. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: This is already German-national Paranoia!]] But because it's German students – and that's the double density of your policy – you even take on the task of free access to higher education. De facto give it up. If the number of students in medical universities has fallen by 2,000 in the last four, five years, from almost 12,000 to about 10,000, that is, the trend is so declining compared to 2005 and then, of course, the superfluous use of autonomy is there, perhaps also guided by the medical chambers, which say, because now there is so much urge, we need to make access restrictions and quotas – not only the performance should be tested, but also the restriction made – I do not think that is right. One also assumes at the quota that in the end Austrian students who have the Matura do not have the Subjects can study what they want, namely medicine, dentistry or the like. And why? – Because you keep the quota artificially small in autonomy. Who says we can only take in 1,500 students? Perhaps you should change the curriculum again – there is a need for action – and make it less sheltered in the laboratories so that you can also offer better opportunities here. Or maybe we'll use the whole year? Maybe because it's a special case, we're going to introduce a trimester regulation there? – There were many creative possibilities. But what do you do? – Quota and access limitation, that's it! You give up free university access. That's the subject. And that's what I'm guessing! That's just the first way you're really going here. This will act like a domino effect on the other universities. We liberals say: free university access at all universities, no quotas, no numerus clausus, no admission exams! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Matura or study qualification exam must be the only study requirement! Exceptions: where they are factually justified, where one needs physical conditions, such as in sports, or where one should prove creative skills, such as in the art field. - But that's it. We have been fighting for this since 1945, and this has been thrown overboard by you in recent years. I hope that SPÖ will re-enter as a partner here and begin to fight for free access to higher education, with arguments that do not hide behind quotas and sudden emergence of foreign students and so on. It would be best for me if many more foreign students came to Austria – for the reason that our universities are so great, not because it is perhaps easy with us – you have to question that once – or easier than in other countries. Elite education takes place at the facilities we have. 21 universities, that's a sufficient number. We need a lot of action in profile formation. The legislator has failed to do so, and in fact we have to create a national force. For example, a large coalition would be needed. It is not necessary to mention just one example that we finance three architectural studies at the Vienna site with longer study periods with public funds. This is also better done by groupings where at the end one can make a creative part and a technical part in the second or third study section. This would also save administrative costs. If the builders lose planning capacity in Austria, we all know what is going to happen. We will only have more of those who carry out masters, and those who plan, these are the architects. But for a family house, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need a six-, eight-, nine-year-old study of architecture so that I can plan it. In this way, we are wasting time resources for our young people, and we have to think about it. We also give a lot of free hand in choosing courses of study at the universities. Can anyone explain to me why there is a branch of study which is publicly funded at the University of Soil Culture in Vienna, which calls itself “Pferde Sciences”, where 130, 140 students – mostly women – take more or less the profession of the equestrian whisperer? [[Abg. Broukal: A profession in question!]] Yes. Is a sought-after job. But how many people do he have to ask? Why can't you do that where it belongs, at the University of Veterinary Medicine, in order to perceive synergies there? [[Abg. Broukal: There are also horse sciences there!]] – And next time, dog science, cat science, mouse sciences – everything will be popular professions. You can sometimes awaken a need artificially. But no matter – if we have enough money, I should be right. I would rather spend it differently than create an “art profession” that I do not think is really necessary in these areas. I do not want to hide at this point that I really lack substance at the theatre at the medical universities because here – we have experienced it in the committee, but also in the public discussion – with the job guarantees for the doctors and with the lack of doctors and the like is argued. I have not yet given my speech to the public, because, Minister, you should try to get through with your issues in the European Union, as you want to do, and not have the excuses, because there has been too little consensus in Austria's policy, whether you fail. - No! Let's see what the result is. Bring them home! But they're probably going to fail. And then it'll hit you twice. I am saying at this point that a university is primarily – also a medical university – an educational institution and not a vocational training institution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If that were the case, then you would have to rename a medical university into a university. [[Abg. Broukal: Medical School is called in the USA! That's right!]] Well, we claim to have a university. And not every graduate of a university, like any lawyer or philosopher, automatically has a job guarantee afterwards. If I take the subject of job guarantee, I have to introduce the quota scheme everywhere, because I know journalists, journalists, philosophers, all of whom have no job afterwards. Do we also argue that way, Mr Broukal? – We would have to introduce quotas there. Rethink your previous way of thinking! I do not want to: The EMS tests are not just performance-based tests – after that, there is the Commission, where a little bit of work is done. There you can, that's it. [[Abg. Broukal: Really?]] – Look This is what you're looking at. It is also declared everywhere – after-readable on the homepage –: That's one of the admission criteria. What are the others? - Yes, yes, the Matura! – No, no, the Commission, too, which is making a change afterwards! [[Abg. Broukal: The Matura, for example!]] I assume that the daughter or son of the professor will always be able to study medicine because they will all have the prerequisites – and I do not want to get into such a world! I want every Austrian and every Austrian to have the same chance of studying at a university as those who can. That's a concern to us! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense: You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have a budget at your disposal, which could be ever bigger, but which, I believe, is sufficient where, in reality, you can set the priorities in terms of sustainability very carefully with the resources left to you for administration. Take advantage of this opportunity – do not waste it – for the benefit of the Austrian youth, students as well as teachers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44191	Mr Grünewald has now referred to an actual correction. You know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44215	Madam President. Estimated Minister! Mrs. Brinek claimed that the academic rate in Austria had tripled. I'm correcting: There is no single statistical evidence for this, even if you take different degrees into account in different professions. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:... for a while...!]] This could only be done if one compares this with the founding year of the University of Vienna 300 years ago.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44263	I call Mr Broukal. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44285	Madam President. I think I can figure this out a little bit. When I went to college in 1965, there were 40,000 students in Austria; now we have six times – but in 40 years. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No pre-war stories, please!]] Pre-war history: I have always known that there are German national views – with them I have a problem on and for myself – but German-national Paranoia, that is quite new to me The SPÖ is for the EMS test because it does not want German students at the university?- Oh, my God! [[Call: My God, you don't need that.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] – Well, that said here at lunchtime, but that’s quite strange, isn’t it? – This is beyond what you can take seriously and should take seriously! - That's it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A point of order, Mr Graf: It is not true that for the so-called Elite University vulgo Research Institute Maria Gugging € 280 million is spent. I can inform you – €290 million – that in this budget, €12 million has been mentioned as a maximum amount, but only when the construction progress continues. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 290!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Over the next four years!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Real Scientists!]] If you're talking about €290 million, you'll talk about the next ten years. And if you divide that again by ten, then it's just 28 or 29 million € – money enough, money that could also be needed by other universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 400 million schilling!]] And that is why I can remind you that the SPÖ's very tough condition for giving its approval to the construction of this university was that the fund for the promotion of scientific research will distribute €30 million – i.e. about what the annual tranche of the construction of the elite university – to the existing universities to promote excellent departments and departments there. And this condition has been fulfilled! Some cynic said anyway at the time, now Gugging costs €60 million a year. But 30 million go, presumptuously, to the existing universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'd rather have 60 million!]] - Yes! I'd rather have 120 million €! If you just tell me where I'm taking her, we'll do it right away, Mr. Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: From Gugging!]] [[Call:From taxpayers]] I would even have a proposal, but unfortunately it could not be realized because your predecessors once decided that there are these sublime “birds” that cost us €500 million for which we could afford everything we have to fight for now. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: order call!]] – Well, now I get a ‘Eurofighter order call’: Be careful not to call the Eurofighter “deep bird ”! I'll call him that. I don't have anyone yet...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44448	Mr President. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Broukal: It can still be!]] - That's right, that can still be done. Mr Broukal! “Deep birds” is on the verge of a call for order. I don't think you meant that?- Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44493	I say: Unscrupulously overpriced, over-qualified birds, where we could have bought even easier models – instead of the parrot’s sperm – that fly equally well around the landscape around half the money each year. Then we would join... – They scream so much, they don't know I'm deaf: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I don't hear that! [[Further calls.]] We'd be much easier to do. Please don't take my speaking time away! Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We are so-called bird scientists!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] I agree with you, Mr Federal Minister, that I also agree with Mr Green Forest, and Mr Brinek, too, says it in a negligent way, because she is always looking to improve, but she cannot ignore the fact that, in her speech, she is at least on the verge of speaking, even though she always chooses the optimistic approach: Yes, the rectors have commissioned a great opinion, with the depressing realization that 120,000 students in Austria are studying under bad and 80,000 of them under very bad conditions at universities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This has been the case since Firnberg!]] This is such a big construction site that we have many, many years to work on it! Yes, there are measures in the government programme to improve teaching: Many professors will be recruited in the next few years, but when we see the starting point – with us a professor, in Germany or in Switzerland at 40 – comes to 120 students – then we know that we have a long, steep path ahead of us and that we all have to help together again and again, with every budget, just to bring about such pressure in the public, that all the needs in the composition of a budget of this idea are not too short. We also find the restrictions on access – with the exception of those in medicine – unacceptable. We are very dissatisfied with the study presented in February or March, where it was completely forgotten to examine the social implications of access restrictions. So, we have no answer to the question: Does it really affect those who learn worse, or does it affect those who work? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: We'll find out!]] – We have no answer to the question! Everyone can now tell what he believes – I would like to know. If, in particular, the restrictions on access, which only take place after half a year or a year of study, were to be met by those who do not live in such good material conditions that they must go to work and cannot devote part of their time to study, then I would have a big problem with these restrictions on access. We don't want social numbers clausi! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why we introduce quotas!]] Yes, the medical odds: Look, we can discuss it as long as we want – we're the wrong contacts. I wish Minister Hahn all the best: that he is able to convince the European Union that we cannot build medical universities for Germany with Austrian taxpayer money! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That he finally introduces a quota!]] I hope he succeeds! And maybe you can do something about it? [[towards FPÖ]] Very German-speaking: Use your cross-border contacts, do it for us, please! Otherwise, there will be no way by – it just can't! When you talk to Dr. Rudolf Mallinger, the Vice-Rector for Teaching at the Med-Uni Vienna, he says: Yeah, good, nice, twice as many students! Where's the second AKH? We don't have the patients for that! But I'm with you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What?- Oh, my God!]] We have a great unknown, and this is the following: What do these 20 or 25 percent foreign students do if they have the doctoral role under the arm? – In the moment they return home in ten years – and this is acceptable to the Germans because there is a medical shortage there: an intentional lack of doctors due to a lack of education – then we will have a problem in Austria. Unfortunately, neither you nor I can predict that, but I think it would be wise, with the worst – I am not done! – to expect and train more physicians. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Well, that's why we have to train many!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's no problem!]] We have still demanded in opposition time that for some years now the number of medical study places is increased by 50 per year. I believe that I can maintain this claim, too, as a scientific speaker of a government party. That's what you said yourself: [[towards Federal Minister Dr. Hahn]] The big problem is, we're playing Russian roulette with the medical future of Austria. We don't know what the Germans are doing, but there are many assumptions that most of them will go home. And then, not today, but in ten years, we have too few doctors. I'm with you: We need to take care of this case. – Because the worst thing that can happen to us if we have too many doctors is perhaps that at last there is not the 72- in hospital, but the 48-hour week that you don’t have to wait for an appointment with the ophthalmologist for two months, that the average length of stay in an ordination of a cash doctor according to statistics 3 or 5 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With politics, don't change it!]] – We have so much employment for additional doctors, I am not afraid! By the way, the following shall apply: I'm hard-heard! I don't hear what you call me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44665	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44687	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Broukal's comments. Again and again, I am surprised that the Socialist Group of the Eurofighters has just used it as an excuse for the many promised projects, for the many promises you have not kept. If the SPÖ continues to say that the Eurofighter costs 500 million – which is not at all true, because in the year it is slightly over 300 million – and on the other hand you promise several billion projects and always say all projects annually, the repayment! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] Please let's stay right! Listen to me, colleague, and don't be nervous now. You know exactly, you promised billions a year and say every single project: If the Eurofighter weren't, we'd do that! – This bill does not go out! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But now science is too important for me to go further on. – Minister of State! I would like to talk about the government programme. On the subject of science, the first paragraph states: “Science and research are the basis for the creation of more jobs, for the maintenance of our competitiveness, for economic growth and thus ultimately for social security.” So far, so good. I think we can all sign this in here. Of course, we all agree that we must invest as much as possible in science, but it is less good to spend less than 1 percent on the university science sector in 2007, as measured by gross domestic product. I have to admit, however, that we have been positively surprised that in 2007 there will be €2.219 billion available for universities, i.e. about 8 percent more than in the previous year, which is very encouraging. I must correct Mr Broukal again because he mentioned earlier that it would be 10 percent, he rounded up from 8 to 10 percent. Nevertheless, a positive signal. But I am already wondering, as a scientist, how this – despite this 8 percent increase – should work to make all the announcements from the government programme work. It won't be that easy. Rather, it will be necessary – that is the essential challenge of the next months and years – to review the tax money used for the effectiveness of the introduction. In recent months and years, I have not only been from the student side, but now also More and more from the professor's side is that it will certainly be necessary to transfer responsibility for the use of funds to universities for professional economic management, since in some cases professors are required to use these funds properly, which have absolutely nothing to do with business and business management. Similarly, it will be a great challenge for the future to further develop the study contributions, a proven concept. I say that it has proved to be successful, because despite all the unknowings, the number of students who are graduates is rising. I wrote out the numbers: In 2004, there were 210 125 students at the universities, about 217 000 in 2005 and 223 787 in 2006. This means that the number of students has increased, but also the number of graduates: in 2003/2004 20 237, 2004/2005 20 978, 2005/2006 21 703. So this introduced system can't be that bad. Nevertheless, everything, including what is good, has to be transformed into a positive one. We have a concept on the table, which I have mentioned briefly to you, which will certainly also be presented to you in detail, namely the study contribution model, which is performance-related, a social model with benefits. I'd like to explain this briefly. Over the next few months and years, every effort must be made to oblige universities to organise their studies in such a way that enough internship and laboratory places are available for each student, so that each student can quickly and quickly pass through his studies. Under this condition of a continuous study system, it is then possible to introduce performance-related study contributions, namely in terms of saying that one has a certain number of hours to make a study progress in one semester. If you do not make this progress, you have to make your study contribution in this semester. However, if you are better and do more than the required hours, or if you have the required hours and perhaps even a better score than the rest, then this study contribution is missing. And you could even introduce some kind of bonus for those students who really do have a big job. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Of course, we have seen another positive first step in your announcement that we want to increase the study aid from the winter semester of 2007. This has also been positive for us, it is of course important to increase the study aid. We have only not fully known why the study aid will be increased in a first step and only in a next step, namely next year, will it be planned to review this study aid for safety. We would certainly have done this the other way around: first, we see who gets this, whether it's going to be the right person, and then paid out. It is also important, when I am particularly concerned about the study grants, to address another financing model for those who simply have no chance of reaching this aid and even have to pay their living expenses and their housing costs during the study period. These persons are logically forced to spend more time in order to obtain financial support, and this automatically extends the study period. That is why we intend to force a financing concept, a non-profit credit for the study. In contrast to the current study financing model, this concept provides a basis for a non-profit-making credit – now it is such that there is a 2 percent interest-subsidised loan – which does not have to be repaid with completed studies, as is the case now, whether or not this is the case. you have a job or not. You really have to look at how you can handle this, that the graduates first have a job that allows them to repay. From our personal discussions, Mr. Federal Minister, you have certainly heard that several projects and concepts are already on the table by us to work together on the future for universities, and I can promise you that there will not only be criticism by us, but also constant constructive cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44786	Mr Krainer spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the legal provisions. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44810	Mr Darmann has just said that the Eurofighters would cost us only around 300 million a year. We are currently debating the 2007/2008 budget, and I am actually allowed to correct it: more than 400 for the 2007 budget, more than 900 million for the 2008 budget. Please remember these figures too, especially since we are currently debating these budgets too! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44841	The next item is the report by Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr. Hahn. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44862	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen at the audiences! I can actually save myself from reading my prepared speech, which is also not good parliamentaryism, because I had to or was allowed to find out in the discussion – and that is quite gratifying – that there is clearly no dissent about the fact that there is more money for science, but also for research. What is different about, and that is okay, is the use of funds. We have started to hold this discussion, we have already held it in committee, and that is good, and we will continue this discussion. Therefore, in the sense of good parliamentaryism, I would also like to take the opportunity to address your arguments here and explain my point of view. I think where we hope to be a sense, the fact is that it must be our common concern not only to maintain or to make Austrian universities competitive, but also to try to play internationally at the top, not only European, but also international. And it is necessary to create the appropriate financial, but also structural, conditions for this. This is also the reason why we have undertaken to evaluate the UG 2002 in a one-year, very intensive, wide-ranging discussion process, as of next autumn, where something needs to be tightened up where it fits. I think it's a bit out of dispute that this law was a mess. I can quite say from my wait that it was a century law, and as always with such large projects there are some – salopp said – brösel or one thing or another, where you need to sharpen something, that's perfectly normal, and in terms of that, I think I'm going to have the talks and discussions. I think that what we have to discuss very openly, where there may also be differences of views, is the question of access to higher education. I have never made a locust of it, that, in the light of the three-stage study architecture – Bakkalaureat, Master, PhD – I feel that we should strive to ensure free university access for the first stage, the Bakkalaureat, because this is a quality that we can point to for many years where we have a tradition; and that is a good quality that we have here in Austria. It must be our common concern to ensure this free access to higher education in the future. I am with you, Mr Dr Graf, that we also have to examine the issue of optimization, because I can understand it and share the view that some type of study does not have to be offered four, five or six times in Austria. Two or three times would probably be enough, one time too little, because there must also be competition between the same disciplines. But that small courses of study – from the number of students – do not have to be offered in all major university cities is obvious to me. We need to see how we can meet this challenge in the context of university autonomy, but this is a question for me, how can we optimize the entire university area? I'm deliberately not talking about savings here, but what can be financially optimised here must remain in the system to optimize the system. This means that where, for example, a higher amount of support is given to students in certain subjects, we need more resources from teachers and, where it goes, also from infrastructure to meet these new challenges. Now on the question of access – this is not only a philosophical but also a highly practical one. There are studies on this, and how many studies do they, when they are on the table, trigger a no-na experience with the reader, because one considers that one has always known that, but it is good if things are occasionally studied properly. For example, there is evidence that there are certain areas of study as there are: Economics, computer science, some technical studies, where the choice of studies is primarily – I would like to say almost: exclusively – taken by students against the background of their perspectives on the labour market. And then there are other fields of study – in general the fields of mental and social science; in particular, one has studied communication sciences and also psychology here – where the result was that the students have chosen the study out of interest, out of inclination, and not because they have considered what professional perspectives they have after their studies. So there are very different levels of motivation, which is why someone is studying something. I think, in total, a society, a mature, developed, cultivated society should have like the same quality and also this understanding, this understanding that we leave this wide range of possibilities open. However, we should say, where the possibility arises from the organizers, politics, rectors, universities, that there are studies where one can estimate a need for labour. And medicine still belongs – I emphasize: still, because here too there is de- develop – to those courses of study, where one can estimate some of the needs, in contrast to others. I have often told rectors or deans that if they can prove or prove to me how many UU graduates, how many lawyers in this country need, can talk about different things. I alone lack imagination, but I think I'm not left alone in this imaginationlessness because I've never received a corresponding answer until now. Therefore, our goal must be to ensure free access to higher education at least at the Backalaureat. Restriction measures are always second best solutions. I also have a very clear scale of priorities: I think absolutely nothing of a numerus clausus, because it does not give as always an indication of the special study ability of a future student in a particular subject, if the subject-matter of the analysis is the average grade of the mature certificate, without prejudice to the type of middle school he has completed. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If someone goes from a music-pedagogical gymnasium to the technique, he may have a different matura certificate than one that comes from the Realgymnasium. That is why we should not take these things into consideration. The second best variant is the study entrance examinations after a phase of two, three semesters, which ultimately, if they are not managed positively, lead to a time loss for the person concerned. That is, if it is necessary to provide for access restrictions for which reasons, then I certainly advocate solutions at the beginning of the study. You can discuss whether this should be just one or whether those are two or three – keyword: Does the biorhythm fit that day? You don't need to have the Olympic idea in a professional decision, so to speak, that you create all the conditions on this day. So there are quite the possibilities and the systems to be developed from my wait, but the basic pattern should already be that, if it is necessary, you do this at the beginning of your studies. Now a few words, because it is of course the subject of the current discussion, this week also expert discussions took place in Brussels, on the question of medicine without quota: Mr Graf, I would also like to have the opportunity to extend the number of places of study, not a question, it should really be possible for everyone to study what he wants. I also say that it is a) a financial question, b) I can imagine that after a few years you would tell me: Why do we train physicians who are on their way as a taxi driver? So if we have the opportunity to estimate something here, we should try. I say it quite openly: As Minister of Science, as Minister of Science, I have a great moral impetus to say, I wish that as many graduates as possible have the opportunity to study their choice in Austria. And if there is a special situation, as we find it in medical studies, then we have to take measures that are not particularly funny for all of us. But here it is simply a matter of weighing between general principles, I say, European principles and, honestly, needs that lie at the doorstep. And one of the essential needs is to ensure medical care even in the years from 2015. All the figures and all the studies show that we have a need of 1,000 to 1,500 doctors. This is a lower limit, not even the upper limit, but that is already a question of discretion and also difficult to estimate how different things are happening in 10, 15 years, but we still have to give certain answers today as politicians. Dr. Graf, we can, of course, discuss the current medical curriculum – although this is not our both competence from the point of view of competence, but we as politicians are required not to hide ourselves here either. This discourse will also have to endure the universities. Only what we've seen so far shows a wormhead drop, namely that the new curriculum is a higher education. This wormhead drop is opposite that people study faster that the dropout rate is lower. And I tell you quite openly, we will not have waiting times at the universities at the end of this decade, at which medical associations will be able to do so. In Innsbruck this will already be the case at the end of this year, Graz will need one or two more years, and in Vienna this will also end in 2009. I am talking to Mr Kdolsky about the fact that the gymnastics training in question is also being modified in such a way that we can in fact say that from 2010 on we can quite guarantee that there are neither theoretical nor practical waiting times. This is something you can't estimate high enough, because everyone who deals with it knows that there have been waiting times in theory and practice for many, many years in the field of medical education. Two more words, on the question of Isa. Of course, this is a classic question of the use of funds, but you yourself said, Mr. Dr. Graf, one needs a great width to get a high-quality top. And the bigger the width, the safer it is that we have a top tip. You can discuss how to organize this. I think what we're talking about here with Isa is a very, very good way. It doesn't have to be everything under one roof. This is actually an approach that is now being discussed at European level with the European Institute of Technology, where it is not a question of creating a new spatial structure, but of networking, optimising and creating added value from existing structures. On this basis, Isa will also be very strongly built. Collective contract – a remark: was handed over to me, but still has to be submitted by the two sides to their own bodies. What we need to discuss intensively is not just the question of additional costs, but for me very essential is the question of career models for scientists. I think we agree that we want to give young scientists perspectives. However, it must not be that this is a lifelong insurance, a Pragmatization through the back door. What we need is a constant competition, evaluation and, so to speak, the demand for those concerned to stay at the ball again and again. Also for scientists and scientists, lifelong learning, lifelong research, and this must also be ensured through such a collective contract. In this question I will not hide, I will not do it either. At the end of the study, this has often been said: We have never said, and I have never said that the family aid is part of this increase, but only the study aid, and it will be increased by 12 percent. This is defined in a budget surplus authorisation, clearly indicated there. We have said that more often than not, I think that if it is implemented, all doubts will be resolved. It was the question here – I think Mr Darmann was – why we are now making the increase and next year the qualitative improvement: All the reviews have shown that there are no weaknesses among the current stakeholders, but that there is still something to be agreed on in qualitative dissemination. So the second step, which is also a little more demanding. Adding 12 percent is a lot of money, but is technically, not so difficult to handle. But knowing where to do it is a little more difficult. For this we have taken time together with the high school and others over the next few months. The aim is parliamentary treatment in autumn, so that we can take the decision-making decisions at the end of the year, early next year, so that this can subsequently be implemented organisationally and can be taken accordingly from the winter semester 2008/2009. As always – to my regret – the pure research discussion is a little too short, perhaps it still succeeds at another time. I said it last time and I would say that nothing has changed in the last few weeks: The field of science and research is in good hands. One last comment: Yesterday we had an informal council of research ministers in Würzburg. The Green Paper of the Research Commissioner Potocnik was also presented there for the first time. Much of what has been said there is also the subject of our internal Austrian debates. That is why I will allow myself to take this Green Paper, which also has the invitation to the European debate on the subject, under the leadership of my house here, a public research discourse with the relevant public, with those who are interested in creating it, so that we can go into this debate in addition to the European debate, but also with the positions of Austria and thus make an essential contribution not only to Austrian research policy but also to European research policy. It is out of question, research, science and investing in this area not only create sustainable jobs in the narrower field. There is an investigation that between 2 and 3 percentage points, as measured by gross domestic product, in research and science, total 40 percent of the gross domestic product results in sustainable consequences. Therefore, every euro in this area is a highly valuable, an important euro. I can really ask you once again for your support not to paralyze in this area. That we have some differences of opinion there and there is okay, but we are in favour of discussing this. At the end of the day, we should pull a rope. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e44999	Thank you, Minister of State. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. It's done for 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45024	Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I have to come back to the medical school once again, after the large room has been occupied today. If we have 8 million inhabitants in Austria and Germany 80 million inhabitants, then sometime – that's quite normal – in factor 1: 10 Germans will also study medicine at our universities. And if Mr. Graf were right, you could just say: Suppose we had as much money as we wanted, then we could have them studied here now. - But that's wrong. This is absolutely limited, of course, by the number of patients we have available here, where our students and then in the specialist training and in the practical training need to learn the doctors. We never have ten times as many cases of illness. If Mr. Dr. Grünewald meant that he would like more doctors, because then he would have to wait less long for his ophthalmologist, I can tell him that today is often very, very difficult... – If you weren't, I apologize, but I have that in memory. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Did I say this today?]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: No,...!]] We already have the problem today that we have in part for the training of ophthalmologists, one example, too few cases for the gray star. No longer can all learn this operation. So it is in all areas. Especially in the field of science, where we need to explore things, also in and with the sick patients, these sick numbers are simply not to be duplicated at any rate, on the contrary, if possible, to avoid from the outset. In other words: This quota also ensures the quality of medical training. Regardless of whether Germans or Austrians or students from elsewhere study here, we simply cannot train many more people with the number of sick people in Austria in the quality offered. We must also make a clear commitment to this. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] – An express thanks to my colleagues. In the field of research, we have seen a rapid upturn in recent years and have come from one of the last places within the European Union far above the European average in terms of public sector expenditure in terms of GDP. To sum up, the R&D ratio does not bring us to a similar level as Finland, but not because we are so much worse with the expenditure of the public sector. On the contrary, in Austria we have long been above Finland's expenditure in the public sector. In other words, the Austrian state is already spending more money on GDP in the public sector than Finland, but the companies in Finland are spending two and a half times on R & D. That is, we have to start here where the lever for research and development is the most ideal and the greatest. But that means... – [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Wirtschaftsbund! IV!]] Our economy is not lazy, but it is also in Finland... – Please? [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: IV!]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: IV!]] We have the situation that today 46 percent of research and development expenditure is already incurred by the economy in Austria. This percentage must rise very seriously. That is why I am glad to have here a Minister of Science and Research, who is aware of this problem, who knows that we also need to get even better in the ivory tower, also in the basic area, especially in the area applied in Austria, and who is ready and aware of the need for the universities and the economy to become even more intensive in a constructive dialogue with regard to science and research in Austria. That is why I am particularly pleased that, in this particularly important area, the highest increases in research expenditure are also managed by our Minister of Research and Science. I am sure that it will make a profit for the entire economy and society in Austria, in particular with a focus within the universities. Mr. Federal Minister, you have the opportunity to ensure that we are not 15 times medium-sized in Austria in some areas, but also that coordination takes place between the priorities of each university. I know this high responsibility in good hands with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45121	The next speaker was Mrs Sburny. Speaking time: 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45143	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, in the field of education by Mrs Federal Minister Schmied and also of you, Mr Federal Minister, I have heard something that is optimistic about education, research and science. However, I still have to deal with the figures you have just mentioned, and Mrs Brinek, before, too. I have never done anything with the figures in the budget, because there is nothing in the back and in the front. What you have just said with this 40 percent of GDP, which are being moved in a sustainable way – I don't know where – has now provoked me. If you look at the model simulation of the Wifo, you can see that with a billion additional investment – and we are far away, you will also admit that even if you have a positive assessment of the increases that exist – you can get 5.3 percent cumulative potential output in the long term, i.e. GDP increase. Of 40 percent, I've never read anything there. In which decades you're moving, I'm not quite comprehensible. [[Federal Minister Dr. Hahn: Effect, not share!]] Aha, okay. I would then like to see more precisely how you have calculated this, because there are a lot of numbers that are wandering around the area, which from my point of view are quite questionable. But we have no difference in the point that more money is to be invested in science and research, of course we do. It has already been said two or three times today that education policy is part of economic policy. This is, of course, perfectly correct when one sees it as saying that education causes higher incomes, for example, or ongoing investment in education can stimulate this economic growth and bring higher employment. This is certainly not the only effect that education should have, or the only effect that increased expenditure should have here, because there is also a socially important area beyond the economy, or beyond, that everything should be based on the market economy or on the market economy. There is also a social mission in the field of education, and I think this is too short in this budget. This simply means that it is also about personal development, that it is also about creating spaces in the field of education in general, but especially in the scientific and research fields. Spaces mean, for example, that researchers can try something out, that money is available for it, and that you don't have to know what comes out at every request, but that there is a lot of space there. For example, the FWF is doing this in excellent form, so there is a part, but in many areas, especially in the university area, the budgets are so scarce that the question comes over and over again: Is the market economy worth it? – I think this is a wrong approach, which is also related to the fact that in Austria there is a bit of fearsome access to these spaces and also a certain inaccuracy which I consider to be counterproductive in particular in the field of research and development. That is, if you look at the budget for it, you can say: Point one: Yes, €172 million in 2007, €25 million in addition to 2008, which is indisputably positive, but of course far too little and still not even this 1% in GDP, where it is always about that we should actually reach 2 percent, but not even 1 percent we still have. In general, the budget is that we have a strong increase from 2006 to 2007, i.e. a relatively strong one, but there is a very small increase here, just as in the research, technology and innovation budget from 2007 to 2008. In fact, this also contradicts long-term planning and investment. This is not only seen in the overall budget with this once plus €172 million and once plus €25 million, but you can also see it in detail, for example at the FWF, where the budget for 2007 and 2008 remains the same at all to €150 million, even if it is rising now – which is good. It is also seen in another area, for example at FFORTE, that it is now doubled from 2006 to 2007, which is good, but it remains the same from 2007 to 2008. In other words, my fear is that you want to relieve a little in this area, also want to relax the debate a little, which is certainly also necessary, but that this is not a long-term, sustainable budgeting for the next few years. I would like to address a specific problem or a specific point, because that is not just a problem: women, the scientists. There's a field of tension from my point of view, let's say it that way. We have a lot of data that proves that Austria is still in the final phase in the field of researchers in Europe. The data from 2003 to 2006 show that. In 2003, the proportion of women in science was 21 percent, fifth in the EU-25. For example, in 2004, “Shefigures” says: 1 per cent of the female labour force is active as a scientist. - There too we are final light. Also in 2006, only 7.9 percent of women in the management level were women, which appears in the research and technology report, a very recent figure. That is to say, one sees that for a long time different data do not change a lot. What I would like to say positively is that there are several points that I could at least conclude by starting by saying that there is an effort here to improve this. Forte funds are doubled – this is positive, as has been said, but with the limitation that I do not know how 2008 continues. What I also felt very positive was that your answers to the questions raised by the Committee on Budgets were not general places, but were, for the first time, very concrete on this point, even with regard to what your personal objectives for 2007 and 2008 are, even if the gender budgeting is only started for 2009, which is late enough, but anyway. This means that there are very positive approaches here, but you have to look at the specific figures. For example, if you say that there are 38 per cent more professors by 2006, you have to already see that in figures this is still 285 compared to 1,712 men. Or at the lecturers: 25 percent more still means 429 compared to 2,556. If you look at the real figures, you can see that what is planned now is a positive step, but in the case of Weitem it will not be enough to really put us in the middle field at least once. There is certainly a need for even greater effort. Finally, I would like to return to the question of the academics' quota which Mrs Brinek has referred to. If she meant that the graduation rate has tripled with the academics, I can somehow understand this, although I do not have the current data here now. But she said that academic council – and a triple of the academic council is totally impossible, as Mr Greenewald has already said. In 2003, we had 15 percent, while in 2005 17.8%, the OECD average was 24 percent. Only if we want to achieve this, there's still a lot to do.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45184	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45206	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Federal Minister, I envy You really don't care about the construction site you took over with your department. I am also very glad that we have heard from you today, but not only today, more open tones and more reformable than in recent years. It is common to us that in the negotiations you have succeeded in increasing the university budget, even if we all know that more would be better, but it is at least one step in the right direction. I think it is very important that we consider in the coming years that we use these funds in particular to significantly improve student study conditions; first of all, because students who pay tuition fees have a further right to find appropriate conditions. I am particularly concerned that we focus on reviewing and improving the study conditions for working students, because we have to assume that the current situation at the universities leads to the study conditions that make working life increasingly difficult for fewer and fewer people to take part in studies, although not least because of the tuition fees the work has become increasingly important in addition to their studies. So a group of students we should really focus on. We should see that we are also developing and improving the study conditions in order to support this group. I very much welcome the fact that the funding of studies will be increased, although not to the extent that we would like it to be, but it is a step in the right direction. Two steps are being taken: this year an increase of 12 per cent and next year an overall reform on the question of how more students can benefit from this funding. This is an urgent need. Clever. And if we keep in mind that nothing has happened since 1999, this is, after all, a first welcome step. From my point of view, it is still a pity that it has not succeeded in abolishing the tuition fees with the ÖVP. Mr Federal Minister, you have now said, at least until the Bakkalaureat, open access to higher education, so I think we should talk about whether open university access does not include free access to higher education and whether this would not be a first step in this direction to abolish the tuition fees until the Bakkalaureat. I don't know if you meant that? To sum up, I am very glad that the increase in student support and student support are once again the social situation of learners and students – and this has been very missing in recent years – and that it is a common concern.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45254	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45275	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to get a detailed overview of the budget of the chapters Education, Science and Research, we are doing a little hard, because the competences are very widely distributed; we have already heard that. I noticed four ministries, maybe you'll remember a few more. This is about you, Federal Minister Hahn, that is, science and research, the BMVIT with Mr Faymann, about teaching, art and culture with Mrs Schmied and about business with Mr Bartenstein. Maybe there are others. – Environment? Perhaps a sixth ministry to do so. This cannot, of course, help to achieve clarity by means of a budget or also a targeted thrust for education, science and research. There will inevitably be competency, double-tracks, budget-sharing struggles and, of course, inefficiency – many chefs spoil the bree. In other words, the Federal Government would be well advised to look for more efficient ways and ways to give these competences into one hand and transfer them to a responsibility. We very much hope that this insight will also be included in you and that a change to the Federal Ministry Act will be made in this respect. Second point: We also, of course, imagine making development plans in the area of overall development. There is no clearly recognizable direction in which Austrian science is to go. Of course, all new economic developments, technologies, basic research and so on should also be included in a reasonably balanced university development plan. That is, we cannot afford dusty science, which is only there for self-interest. We need innovation, we need impulses for the economy, we need good university graduates, but as expensive academics we don't sit around the AMS. That would be unnecessaryly spent money, would be pointless. We do not need many of these academics who, unfortunately, have chosen the wrong way in the economy. It would also be necessary to provide guidance to people who are in high school. For good education, of course, it also needs top professors and good scientists. I appreciate the partially high level of training in Austria. Universities, but maybe it takes a little more to play at the front. The European football clubs, the top football clubs, are also getting expensive legionaries, so we could also consider getting some expensive legionaries from science to produce guidelines in science at the universities, and really achieve a model for medicine or renewable energy at last Austria-wide and Europe-wide. The energy experts agree that we have long needed a well-coordinated and clearly oriented energy research programme. Unfortunately, there is a very unpleasant criticism from God, Minister Hahn, which was prepared years ago by the IEA, the International Energy Agency. This has not given the Republic a good witness in this “Austria Review”. That's what it says literally: “The dear Austrians, though, researched everything and every one with zeal and devotion. However, there could be no clear objectives, and research coordination was anyway a foreign word in Austria. – So not a good international witness. The beautiful speech that we have heard a few times today may be rethinking. I personally listened to the Austrian science company, I was on a few universities and asked what it looks like with new ideas in the field of energy. Is there an Institute of Solar Technology, for Solar Research, for Energy Research? – There is no such thing as that. There are on the Boku approaches, there are on the TU-Graz approaches, even in my home union in Leoben, as well as labor-related research, there is no reasonable networking. That is, if we do not manage to create a chair for solar energy or renewable energies, then it would at least be useful to create a network here, a knowledge database that researchers and scientists can use. Maybe you can give me some information. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, it is also funny when BMVIT sees what I mentioned earlier when it comes to the “E 2050”. “E 2050” should be an initiative to make real energy a central issue by 2050. I will read to you what is on the homepage of BMVIT: “Energy 2050 sees itself as a systematic strategy process for developing a long-term vision for the Austrian energy future.” If there's something like that somewhere, you'll be scared when you read it. This is certainly not inviting to bring the exciting topic of energy to students or ordinary citizens. I had to read the sentence three times to understand what it might mean. The analysis of BMVIT, Mr Faymann, is funny: "To achieve the concerns and objectives of Energy 2050, an intensive communication process is launched." - And that's it. So it's impossible to imagine what's on the Ministry's homepage. I would encourage you to put in a little more fire and a little more intention and knowledge that it is important to do something in this area. Finally, a few comments on expenditure in the field of science and research. Even here I am not the opinion of the previous speakers who said it was all right, it was so beautiful. The fact is that compared to the previous year, 2006, we achieved an increase of 8 percent to a sum of € 3.97 billion – I hope the figures Mr Minister, however, that, compared to 2008, to the figures planned for 2008, there can no longer be a clear, significant increase, and in view of the increasing need for places of study. So that doesn't seem to me to be such a great success. The expenditure on research and development – Mrs Hakl has said it; unfortunately, it is not in the hall now – is largely financed from the economy itself. Again, as a reference to your large-scale goal in the Government Declaration, you want to achieve 3 percent research rate. With an estimated GDP of € 270 billion in 2007, this year would result in €6.8 billion – a research rate of €2.54. If we were to reach this 3 percent research rate this year, we would have to fire another €1.6 billion this year, as of 2007. GDP high to 2010 would result in an additional need of €2.3 billion by 2010. Minister! The goal is pretty and nicely written, but if there is really a way to achieve it, I don't know. I am already excited how you will answer this question. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45370	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45391	Madam President. High house! I think the basis for a good education of our students is a decent science budget. If we can and could increase this by 8.1 percent for 2007 and that for 2008 by 10.1 percent, good training is guaranteed. This investment in the future is also a clear sign that this Federal Government, with Federal Minister Hahn, who is responsible for this place, not only gives lip confessions, but also sets important and right priorities. When you ask students at universities what is important to them in order to be able to successfully complete a study, they primarily call, in particular, medical students or incoming medical students, of course, the certainty that they will also be given a place. I would like to go to the Federal Minister Hahn thank you very much, because I think he has managed to give the students and young people in Austria a perspective. I would like to thank him for working in Europe with all the strength available to him and for ensuring that in Austria everything possible is done to ensure that every young person who wants to study medicine in Austria can do so with the perspective of having sufficient medical care in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In principle, however, students are concerned with finding optimal resources and conditions at universities. I believe that the goal must continue to be to guarantee young people this. This means primarily investing in infrastructure, modernising it and improving the teaching and learning environment. It must not be forgotten that the Austrian universities are, of course, also exposed to international competition. Our task must therefore be: be also to create framework conditions to prepare our universities structurally and conceptually for it. The University of Economics received a prestigious award only in February 2007, the quality seal EQUIS – European Quality Improvement System – and this is also something worth mentioning and shows that we really have excellent universities in Austria and our students have more than deserved to have the chance to study at one of the best universities in the German-speaking area. In addition to the infrastructure, a criterion where young people want to be best supported is appropriate funding, provided that there is a social need. I believe that we have been able to overcome all the obstacles in this area in recent years. If every third student in Austria, every fifth student at a university of higher education, is already receiving a scholarship, this is a clear signal for this. For the past few years, this can also be determined by means of figures: The number of students who received a study programme has increased from around 34 000 to 48 000. That's good. Nevertheless, it was time to expand this system because there has been no increase in inflation since 1999. Therefore, it is very welcome to announce that the study funding will be increased by 12 percent from autumn onwards. This increases the maximum aid to € 697 per month. On average, this means 308 € per month for every student, and that is under the rule of 33 € more. I think that's an important and right thing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is about extending study funding not only in terms of the level of study, but also in terms of the interest rate and social security. I think it's important here that nobody falls through the rust. It is also necessary to consider whether there are other target groups that may not be taken into account here. I am thinking, for example, of late professionals, just after their 30s. Year of life make the decision to study. It is also an obstacle for working students to enter the studies. We need to consider the extent to which we can support these people as much as possible. All of this has to be discussed. I know that Federal Minister Hahn is very open there, open and will also stand up for this discussion. I believe that the best conditions are thus created for the scientific location and economic location of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45476	Next item is the report by Mr Dr Zinggl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45498	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With all due pleasure in increasing the scientific budget, Austria is likely to achieve the Lisbon goals of spending 3 percent of the gross domestic product for research and development in 2010, practically zero. That's impossible. The probability is very low. I do not at all share the optimism of Mr Brinek. Austria slides further in international comparison. And the bigger the gap, the more difficult it is to achieve this goal in the next three years. Mr Minister, correct with me also Mrs Hakl, who is now no longer in the Chamber, because the public share of this expenditure is 38 percent, so the private sector share is 62 percent – and not, as honourable Member Hakl has said, 46 percent. What I want to put forward is that you want to reduce this share even further. That is, you want to further reduce the share of public hands and hope that the private sector will increase them. This is, of course, a milkmaid bill because I believe that the state has to create incentives here, it has to invest there, it is, so to speak, a kind of locomotive for the private sector. And if the state withdraws, that locomotive won't run. That is, if you don't put coal on it, the locomotive cannot accelerate. We will not only achieve the goal in 2010, but probably not at all at all. I do not share your argument, which you have also made in the Scientific Committee, that Austria, because of its very good GDP – because Austria is so good in economic terms, we are already paying enough in absolute terms – I do not share the percentage at all. In fact, it is even very strange, because a percentage as a target is always oriented to the possibilities and never to the absolute figures. It would be like you, as a well-earned taxpayer, saying: I am paying absolutely enough taxes anyway and therefore I do not need to pay everything the State requires of me for percentages, unlike those who earn less and in absolute numbers pay less. Independent of this, we must see that the Scandinavian countries in particular have a partially higher gross domestic product than Austria, and yet their R & D ratio, not only increase their research and development expenditure, but have achieved the Lisbon target for 2010, which is 3%, now or partly for years, Finland and Sweden. And now I'm wondering, Why do they do that? Are they drunk or do they not know what to do with the money? Or do they consistently invest in a future? Invest where it is necessary!, the Minister of Finance has made a full statement in his budget speech. And I'm wondering now: Is it necessary to invest in research and development? And if so: Why don't we do that? We should do this for the private sector. In order for it to achieve this share, as is the case in the Scandinavian countries, it needs the state incentive. We should invest there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45549	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Decliner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45570	Madam President. Federal Minister! Four short themes. First: Service right: I support you, Minister of State, we need a new collective agreement. He seems to be done. He should enable continuous careers without there being an automatic, but that depends on quality checks. And there is also the possibility to describe different types of places so that there is no stone. Service right II: It is now a novel in preparation or review. I think it would again be an opportunity to implement the resolution of the National Council on the subject of high-school graduates, Bachelor's degree in public service law. - That's the right to serve. Secondly, Synergies were today demanded by Mr Schelling. A synergies which is now in place and which affects both you and the Ministry of Education is the development of educational universities, where I believe that there is a lot of synergies with the cooperation between the University and the Educational University. Thirdly, student follow-up. If this project comes about, please do not forget the professional students! This is a group that, according to the PISA study, would be particularly interesting and where I believe that, for example, the students who want to do vocational education at educational universities would be predestined to enter here. Last point: ECGH – central challenge. The thing is really more than difficult. You have absolutely no easy task and, I think, a good way to negotiate. I sometimes wonder why we do not consider once again if the European Constitution cannot be realized in this form, as it would be desirable, but because of the veto in some countries once again needs to be considered: Why don't we also use this to set out in primary law such existential exceptions so that a 100% guarantee can actually be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45631	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45652	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, allow me to comment on a phenomenon which is quite clear to me. If, in this budget chapter, speakers have again tried to play against each other several important tasks of the Republic, which are reflected in the budget chapters, I believe that this is the wrong way. The Republic, we all, our country has many different tasks, and all need appropriate money. I do not think that we should be able to play agriculture against social matters, for example, or to use environmental protection with the necessary labour market resources, but also not to weigh up science with internal and external security, so to speak. All these areas are important, all budget chapters, all areas, all ministries need, of course, financial resources. I think it's wrong that you're always trying to play so many areas against each other. Of course: For my group too, I can say that we would like to open up and find more financial scope for the various areas and would therefore certainly also like to make some of the past unblemished, for example the Kreisky debt policy of the 1970s and 1980s. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Muttons and Marizzi.]] If we could get rid of this, then we would not only save €300 million or €400 million, as first mentioned in connection with the Eurofighters, no, then we would be able to save €7 billion each year alone in interest payments and then, of course, have much more financial room for play in many areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Talk about the debts of the last six years!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Regardless of the fact that the past is the past, I think it is a day of joy today if we can discuss today’s “science and research” budget and send this budget chapter on the journey with a decision of the National Council, so to speak, and secure it for the next two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] A day of joy when 8.1 percent in 2007 alone and 10.1 percent more in 2008 are available for science and research. In absolute figures, this is almost €4 billion in 2007 and over €4 billion in 2008 for science and research. And for universities alone, for Chapter 14, that is, for the closer area of Mr. Wissenschafts- und Forschungsminister: €3.5 billion. It turns out that this only accounts for half of the interest payments for the old debt. Overall, I think that is a very good approach. This was also praised accordingly by all previous speakers. The universities – and they are also very important to us for good reason – receive more than 16 and 17 percent additional funds in these next two years. In addition, they also have – and therefore I do not fully understand some speeches! – € 140 million annually from the study contributions. I do not understand, therefore, that some of the speakers in the debate on this budget chapter, on the one hand, mean more money for universities – without a doubt, it would be desirable to say where to get it! – and on the other hand say: Absence study contributions! The €140 million the universities obviously do not need. I think that would be the wrong approach. These funds are necessary, which are also needed by the universities, are used very well and efficiently – without the fact that what was really done when the study contributions were introduced to the wall, namely that a social selection takes place here. This cannot be because, as we all know, all those who receive study grants – Silvia Fuhrmann has already mentioned and pointed out that they will continue to be increased – do not pay any study contributions at all. That is why, I believe, what was feared here cannot happen at all. Finally, I would like to say: But I am also pleased that, as I was able to take up this debate today, many speakers have actually praised our university system. I am very pleased, therefore, because I can recall the very intense debates in the introduction of the University Law 2002. Obviously, this system has proved itself very, very well. Obviously, everyone in the meantime is convinced that this was the right way. Without a doubt, there will still be opportunities for improvement there and there. We will be discussing these very constructively in the next few years and will implement them where it is necessary. But overall, I believe, through this university law 2002 we can build on a very good, on a modern foundation, on a future-looking foundation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45712	The next item is the speech by Mr Elmar Mayer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45736	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only say to my previous speaker briefly as one who comes from a Vorarlberg working family: If Bruno Kreisky had not been there with his dedicated reform programme, I would not have been here and there would not be thousands of young people who had the opportunity to make a good education. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: 7 billion... for example!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: We pay for it now!]] It is the best example if, at least, the new generation of ÖVP delegates are guided by the social guidelines of Bruno Kreisky and if the new Minister of Science at a Hertha Firnberg, for example, has created milestones across party borders. So, to compare with those, I think, we're gonna leave out. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Apart from the financials, I just want to... – I'm a backbenchist myself, I know how difficult it is to report back to the floor, so: [[Abg. Eßl: 6,6 billion € Interests! That's every year...!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: It's not even...!]] Sign up to speak and present arguments! That's much better! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to congratulate the Minister for Education on the morning of the Minister for Education, apart from the budget figures, on whom Mr Wissenschaftsminister also congratulates – apart from the budget figures, although you can and should underline the positive one here too! But it is, I believe, very important after the era Gehrer that new faces are also present in the field of science. And with Gio Hahn there is not only a new face, but also a new force that is able to meet the challenge – like Mrs. Schmied, along with the Erwin Niederwieser – together with our Josef Broukalauf government side, the scientific work of bringing university work into new orbits. I am pleased that even in the field of the ÖVP – for us it is clear, and it is clear for the Greens too, and it is also clear for some other Members – it is ready to rethink the situation with the tuition fees. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But it's important to me if now...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45856	Please take a little rest! Let the honourable Member continue. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45902	When I look at the current situation, I notice: The head of the Institute of Economic Research Karl Aiginger says that he would make the recommendation because we are proven to have too few trained technicians in the coming years, at least the technical students will participate. to pay the full or all of the tuition fees. I look forward to the time when you can say: Minister of Science Gio Hahn is the Minister of Science in history, who has succeeded in abolishing the illegitimate and socially unfair tuition fees. We should all work together on this. It would also be worthwhile for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to support the Minister for Science. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45937	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Karl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e45958	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to make a point of order. First of all, as Styrian delegates, the students of the Farm School of Haidegg warmly welcome. [[General condolences.]] Welcome, and I hope you will get a good impression from our debate here! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, 30. On March 20, 2007, the “Small Newspaper” read that the Council of Science expressed its praise to the double budget. Planed extra spending of 10 percent would be a financial improvement of the university framework, it was said there. The president of the Austrian rector's conference and rector of the Vienna University of Economics, Christoph Badelt, will be published in the weekend edition of the "Standard" of 31. ==References== April 2007, with the statement that “there is more significant money for universities – the government has opened up its word, and that should be recognized”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is truly gratifying that this increase in the budget is also in broad agreement here in the House. But I would also like you to acknowledge that our universities are not this emergency area that they are often spent here. I would rather agree with Dr. Graf, who said today that we have excellent universities. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Excellent universities also require excellent researchers. With this budget there is – and that is very important to me! – more money for the promotion of human resources. In the field of science and research, it is primarily two groups of people who have already been addressed today and need special support: On the one hand, these are the women, on the other hand, it is the scientific young people to whom one has to offer a perspective so that he chooses science and remains in Austria as well. And here, this budget offers really important approaches. Some women's promotion measures have already been mentioned, let me now mention measures to promote young people. These include the implementation of Doctoral Schools, the extension of additional Post Docs as well as the State and Wittgenstein Prizes, Erwin Schrödinger Fellowships, Apart Fellowships and Doc Fellowships. In particular, these scholarship programmes are essential because they provide qualified young scientists with the opportunity to participate in leading foreign research institutions and research programmes. As I myself was an independent fellow candidate and as such was able to research at the Max Planck Institute for Foreign and International Social Law for three years, I know how important such stays on renowned foreigners are. This is the case in the case of research institutes for scientific careers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46025	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer's speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46046	Madam President. Minister! High house! The budget provides for a 12 per cent increase in aid. Although it may be a bit more and more like so many measures – see, for example, the student assistance, which was increased by 15 percent – but it is at least an increase, and this is basically pleasing. It is gratifying, because this gives social weakness more opportunities, gratifying, because it can also encourage more women indirectly, and gratifying, because additional funds also secure Austria's economic location. The situation of women in science continues to be less encouraging to unsatisfying. Half of the graduates are female, and at the same time only 30 percent of the assistants are female. And with the small proportion of professors we are international final light. We can't take that anymore. I would also like to use the situation today to present an up-to-date example: Recently, the Senate of the Academy of Fine Arts made a three-way proposal in which a woman – Clémentine Deliss – was clearly proposed as a top priority. But instead of the Council accepting this proposal, one has – and in that case really “men” – opted for a bad man. This is extremely inconceivable and incomprehensible for several reasons. First of all, in a daily newspaper, we were able to read in advance of the decision that one of the universities said: I don't care what the Senate proposes, I'll take candidates XY anyway! – A classic case of men's bundles. Secondly, we have to ask ourselves what sense Senate proposals have if they are simply ignored. I think Senate proposals should not be simply passed. Either they should be binding, or at least there must be an comprehensible statement by the Unit to explain why another decision has been taken. And thirdly, there is a women's funding plan at this university, which says that women need to be preferred in the event of equal qualifications. In this case, the woman was even better qualified. That means that this plan is a smooth break. I know that there is also a great deal of misunderstanding as to whether this decision exists at the Academy itself, and I think we will certainly have to discuss that. Ladies and gentlemen, the autonomy of universities is important, and I do not want to make myself strong for party political influence, but what is very important is social policy. What conclusions can we draw from this case? – There is much to be done in the promotion of women: for example, compulsory women's quotas in the recruitment of universities – here we are already in good conversation, and that is partly already implemented –, improvement of women's promotion plans and so on and so on. Mr Minister, as far as women's promotion is concerned, you have strong partners with the SPÖ women. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46092	The next item is the report by Mr Rasinger. 3 minutes speaking time. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46114	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Doctors, too, dream not only of money, but also generally – and I have had a nightmare today, namely that one of my older girls would have to be treated by any Ukrainian or Polish doctor who can hardly be German. [[general hustle and bustle]] And that's where I thought: Actually, I can't really imagine that. But this “dream” is currently in East Germany’s reality! 18 000 doctors have left Germany because there is a real international migration towards England and Norway because there are generally too few doctors trained in Europe. Every decision we make in Austria in the university sector takes the Austrian health care ten years later irreversibly. I am glad that the problem has been recognized by the government as a priority, because if we do not have these famous 1,000 doctors – or 1,500 doctors – 1 000 is the lower limit: Who then takes responsibility for the many years of waiting lists for, for example, heart surgery or eye surgery – which inevitably leads to rationalization decisions? That's all reality in England. In England, 1.3 million people are waiting for surgery, many of them for more than two years. 15,000 doctors are being sought throughout Europe – all over Europe! That means, for example: German doctors fly over the weekend and earn the triple as in Germany. As a result, the German market is again swept empty, and thus there is a trend towards Germany. It is really naïve to believe that 35 German students who have not been taken in Germany do not apply twice if they get a place in Vienna. Vienna or Innsbruck or Graz is always more beautiful than perhaps Kiel or any German university city. It is naïve to believe that they will then all stay in Vienna because it is so beautiful in Vienna or then they have married themselves. If one has a spark of responsibility and does not want chaos to exist – not only in my district Meidling, but also in the operating rooms, in research et cetera – then one has to see that this dream does not become a nightmare by me, that in ten or 15 years doctors from any part of the world, hardly the German language powerful, talk to Austrians who may hear badly or express themselves. Medicine is always communication that we demand – and it will certainly not be possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46160	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46181	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I think that the Minister and my colleagues will understand that I am once again making lobbyism for the science field in a federal country which is a wonderful one, but which is actually suffering from a particular policy, and above all, under a certain climate in which dissatisfaction and vanity play a greater role than the content debate. Mr Minister, I assume that you know the concept of development of the University of Klagenfurt in the Alps-Adria region, that you have been confronted with it, and that you will appreciate and appreciate this very cooperative and very internationally oriented student and university work in such a way that this young university has a chance for the future. I would like to point out very explicitly to you the efforts that are very often in the shadow, in connection with the fact that Carinthia is a bilingual country, that we are at the heart of Europe, and that the cooperation on the no longer EU borders, but only national borders – i.e. Slovenia, Italy – is also more important at the University of Klagenfurt – and this has something to do with budgets too! - get a chance. Second subject, Minister: I do not give advice, nor a minister, because advice always means “striking”, but I simply give a hint. Minister, as an expert on matter, I ask you: Do not be irritated by local discussions regarding colleges in Carinthia! Already the previous government – and that was positive! – has allocated budgets to the four university locations by the year 2010. Now we have a “summer break” in the discussion, but I think each of the four locations needs Carinthia, especially in terms of content, quite urgently. I will soon be able to confront you with two projects relating to courses at an existing university – that will probably be the most successful –: One is a concept, developed by the mayor of Wolfsberg, a cooperation with Sweden. And the second is – because this is the second heart in Carinthia and is actually very typical of Carinthia and would make sense – a course of study, which is also already completed, but simply does not see the daylight through the Carinthian non-cooperation, a course of study on leisure and tourism in the Alps-Adria area. – Thank you, and we wish you much strength and success in your work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46227	Mr Marizzi spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46251	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Donnerbauer of the ÖVP claimed that the high Kreisky debt ratio had been so high. I'm actually correcting: 1980, at the end of the Kreisky era, there were €27 billion in debt and a government debt ratio of 35.4 percent. In 1990 – then the ÖVP – the government debt was 76,5 percent and the debt ratio was 56 percent. [[Abg. Hörl: But before that, the Sinowatz was there!]] - Watch out for a little! – 2006, at the end of the bowl era, government debt was €155 billion and debt ratio was 63 percent. [[Abg. Steibl: This is a speech!]] That is, what Mr Donnerbauer said was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46315	Next item is the report by Mr Rada. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46347	Madam President. Federal Minister! At the end of this scientific debate and at the end of the overall debate on education, teaching and science, it is beneficial to note that not only was an excellent budget created with further expansion possibilities, but it is also beneficial to see how other ministers act differently and we no longer talk about songbooks and house music, but actually about what matters. That's a premise. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For every government and thus for Austria, it is important to create the framework conditions in the field of science that we can not only preserve businesses, industry and industry but also settle them. Here the framework conditions are to be created, and that has not been the case in recent times. From recent history, each one of you knows: If this does not work in the field of science and research, the corporations are gone. Example Semperit: It is – I believe – still in memory of everyone, as then the further development takes place. The construction site Seibersdorf, which one who is sitting here in this House and has been in the government party, has also been in debt and has contributed a grumbled measure to this construction site, is of course now to be prepared. I am glad that we have a rehabilitation concept for this “construction site” and we may be able to say in the coming or next year: This construction site is renovated! We therefore need the research sector for the greatest possible internationalisation. Without this, all this won't work. And that is why we need an innovative, creative school and training system, which has already been discussed in the various areas – from language skills starting from the further things. It is also in the government agreement – and I am delighted when it is implemented – that we have certain permeabilitys. There must be no one-way road between universities, colleges, higher education schools and secondary education. This must be done in one way to create all these opportunities for lifelong learning. Mr. Federal Minister, this lifelong learning and this also associated higher retirement age will mean that we need different new training opportunities in the meantime. It's nice that there's an educational year. But that may be too little, and we must continue innovatively in this direction. I think we're on the right track. Science and research are essential for a state like Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46390	In part, there are now no further words available to me in science and research. This is why this subject area has been completed. [[14:50:10]] Social and consumer protection Chapter 15: Social and consumer protection Chapter 16: Social security
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46426	We are here to negotiate social and consumer protection parts. This includes Chapter 15: Social and consumer protection, and 16: Social security. As the first Member of Parliament, Mr Oellinger has spoken with a voluntary time limit of 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46450	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! What are we supposed to do with? – Perhaps with what I have already done on this occasion: with reference to the fact that the budget resources, which are now only available to the Ministry of Social Affairs as a whole, can also be seen in terms of how this Ministry of Social Affairs has been organizationally reduced within the last six or seven years. After all, it is only a “Society of the Ministry of Social Affairs’ Ministry” that the pensions have to be managed, which is the area of care and disability – but that is true! – to be cared for, but hardly has any competence to do so, because, as we know, the countries are also responsible and in the case of a law that I would like to talk about, another ministry also has much greater competence. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No, that's not true!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: No,...!]] At the end of the nineties – and you should be careful, colleague – the Ministry of Social Affairs has managed, cared for, disbursed and spent around a quarter of the total budget. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I remember!]] These were times when the Social Ministry was a powerful ministry. Perhaps – you could discuss this too – these were times when the Social Ministry might have had too many competences through the area of social security including pension, health, accident insurance, health and the field of work. Possible! Only: Now, of what it once was – social, work, health – only a part of the social sector, namely pension insurance and the disabled, as it is so beautiful, and a partial competence in the field of care. It is now no longer 25 percent of the total budget – which was just so much because the entire pension funds are running across the Social Ministry – but it is much less if I have not estimated, 16 to 17 percent – that is significantly less. And that is, I think, not really good, as I am going to briefly explain by means of a law that is also related to the budget, although with extra-tour financing. Mr Rasinger has spread a nightmare at the last item on the agenda. The nightmare was: There are only more Ukrainian physicians who are not so to speak compatible with the Austrian patients. Mr. Rasinger – he's not in the hall right now – let's look at the law I'm going to talk about. The law means “housekeeping law”, although it is not about homes that are cared for, but about persons with significant physical or other limitations, persons in need of care are in need of care to a very high degree, because at least care level 3 is necessary to fall under this law at all – unless there is an age dementia, then there is also a lower level of care. [[Call:With house]] My problem and my nightmare is that you are now saying: Now we have solved a house care law and thus a proper piece of the problem in the field of care provision and a proper piece of the care emergency. – With no exception, ladies and gentlemen, something is solved by this! My nightmare is that you think you would have solved something by that we are now offering for a few years what we have already had, namely the condition that Austrian authorities, Austrian service providers in the field of care, except nursing homes, are not able to offer very much; that by continuing the care by illegal persons – that was, until recently, illegal – we would have solved something that is now ‘legal’. I think that's where you're wrong. My problem is that we do not talk about it – but what is urgently necessary – that the way in which you now make this care possible for the future will have to deal with serious problems that are embarrassingly defined by the term “quality assurance” or “missing quality assurance”. If, in the private sector – you know, Mr. Colleague, because you feel clearly addressed – people are being cared for and if the caregiver or the caregiver de facto is together for 24 hours over 14 days with the caregiver in an apartment, then I really do not need to explain what problems can be associated with it – for both groups: for the caregiver or the caregiver and the caregiver. This is an extremely responsible and extremely psychological task, where it is actually irresponsible to say: We have now made it possible for this person to spend over 14 days in the household, and we have now enabled this form of care to be legalized and poorly rewarded. I tell you, I do not want to have to discuss with you in this House at that time – we will probably experience that – if the first cases occur in which these people suffer from the overload that is already latent in the care profession, insofar as there can and will be conflict situations in which people break down, or where conflicts are solved by the fact that one group goes “lost” on the other in any form. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] This is an extremely stressful job, and I'm not saying this to start to panic here, but because it's a real problem. We still have something like control and quality assurance in the area of public care – in the area of private care we have no control and no quality assurance. And you know what that means when you read on the other hand and you know from studies that abuse – it means: Body injury, including mental injury – one or the other group by the other up to 20 percent of cases? – That’s an eminent number! This is really not something you can look away from, and that is really not something that can be hidden by “getting rid of ” it through a house - care law in private households. This is my problem with this law, because the regulation, as it will now come, does not allow for a form of self-employed care, which is also taking place under appropriate quality assurance, but this law means quite pragmatically that what certain associations have done so far in the illegal context can continue as before, only now it is legal. And with that I say nothing bad about the clubs... – Please, colleague Grillitsch, calm down! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Let me talk! I have the speaking time. So I do not say anything about the associations, but about the condition and conditions under which this care will be carried out. And there you should not say, Mr Grillitsch: “Time!” – in the sense of: Stop talking! – if you talk about something that is serious – this is obviously your way of dealing with the problems you are saying: ‘Time!’, i.e.: Stop talking! – but there you should have the openness to have a serious dialogue about it. So simple, colleague Grillitsch, as you do, that you say: Let's just do it this way; in the next ten years, we'll think of anything! All non-profit associations – tipping Please, my colleague, Grillitsch – like the Caritas, the Deacony, the Red Cross say: If that comes as it is planned now, then we do not have the opportunity to expand our daily care offers – probably not – then we do not have the opportunity to expand what is necessary, such as caring housing. – Yes, you nodd, but you obviously did not understand, and that is sad enough, Mr Grillitsch. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Today he loves!]] What I'm trying to ask you to do is be serious. Returning to the Federal Minister and his opinion on this household care law: I am somewhat disappointed that the announcements that only a high quality care and the development of quality care can be carried out in this area are so little followed – for what we now have, Federal Minister, is no improvement! I would have liked to have taken advantage of the possibility that has existed, namely to put pressure on all those responsible, by using the time period in which the extension of the amnesty regime, which was also proposed by the head of state, Mr Pühringer, whom you originally rejected, but which you then supported, to carry out a comprehensive debate on the improvement of care services in Austria, and in fact, together with the countries and the communities from this sick circle, which there is – that the municipalities and the countries are responsible for their nursing homes and, of course, on the other hand, on social assistance, the people are more likely to enter the nursing homes that need to be filled – to break out and come to new forms of care and care for older people, because it would be urgently necessary to start with: at the federal level, the federal government and together with the countries and communities. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] This has not happened, but I suspect that, in accordance with this regulation of the house-care law, a few will lean back and say: Now we have done what was possible, and for the next time rest is. – And then the nightmare that Mr Rasinger said elsewhere would have actually become reality. I would be sorry because the willingness of all people – everyone in his family has any person who needs this care and care at a lower or higher level – to do something seriously would be given! This is also true of the forms of financing, where you, Mr Minister, and we support you here, as well as we call for funding by means of a property tax. - Yes, please, where's something going? Where's the blockage? – Time and again we experience the “N” of the ÖVP on this issue, as well as on other questions. But there you would have great support from the population, probably also from the political parties in this House. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But there we may experience our surprises. Mr Amon, you can say in any event why you are opposed to a regulation and an improvement in the inheritance and gift tax which could be used to finance care and care from it. [[Abg. Tamandl: You still don't understand that!]] You can explain why it has failed that when people depend on care and care, they take the last bulk from the stock exchange, with which they then take care and care of social assistance... – Na of course: [[New call to the ÖVP.]] Beyond the so-called "well-being" wealth, down to minimum limits is plowed! Family members are also put to work to organize care and care. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Tamandl.]] Why not a solidarity organization of all through a better asset tax? – I really ask you that!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46593	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46614	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of my colleague Mr Oellinger: Of course, I would have liked to have the area of work returned to the Social Ministry, for example – I would have been very pleased personally. But one thing I would like to hold very clearly: On the one hand, as we have also noted during this debate on the budget, work also includes very important approaches that will ensure that the labour market is improved, such as measures towards more quality rather than quantity in the field of training in the AMS and more means of promoting re-entry. On the other hand, I would also like to say quite clearly that the budget on social affairs also bears very clearly the handwriting of our Federal Minister Buchinger and, especially, Mr Buchinger, I believe, is a guarantee that measures will be taken, in particular, for those people in this Republic who are not particularly favoured by happiness and who may have lost their jobs or given up poverty in the last few years due to many difficult situations. That, I think, is very important and crucial. [[Abg. Oellinger: That must do the Bartenstein again! That's the tragedy!]] I come to the Social Budget. What I am pleased to note here is that, as I have already said, there is a very strong point of approach to poverty reduction and poverty prevention, and that, unlike the last few years, it is also clear that there are no further cuts in pensions. A very massive sign from my point of view goes in the direction that we have already made a joint increase in minimum pensions to € 726. This is an important sign, ladies and gentlemen, especially for women: More than 150,000 women are affected positively. That was a good, right and very important decision! It is also a good, important and right decision to extend the scheme to long-term insured persons, the so-called – between brackets, because I do not like the term – hackers, until 2010. However, our aim must be to move towards insurance periods, precisely with this pension scheme and with regard to long-term insurance. And what is especially important to me is that a very important first step should be taken, namely that times of sickness benefit should be counted, because that would help first of all sick people and thus also bring about a better creation of those people who are not very well treated by fate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also to be welcomed and very positive that there will be a better assessment and also a better appreciation of the times of childcare. This is also important for women, because we know that women are often not the ones who benefit from a very high pension because of different living conditions. Mr Federal Minister, you have also committed yourself to the field of people with disabilities and, in particular, to the integration of disabled people at work. It is particularly positive to stress that reintegration measures in the area of the first labour market should be better equipped and that measures should be reinforced here. This is particularly important in times when we have to note that access to the labour market is not as well as we would like it to be. It is crucial here that women with disabilities in particular be given a very high priority. Ladies and gentlemen! The achievement of self-help and the precise support of those people who do not have it easily in life are, I believe, very important social policy measures. Another point in this context is undoubtedly the introduction of a need-oriented minimum guarantee. [[Abg. Oillinger: It's not even inside the budget!]] I am convinced that in the future we will have a social policy, in which people will again be more at the centre. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46670	Next, Mr Kickl. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e46692	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr. Federal Minister! I am almost surprised that in some areas of the debate I am already closer to the position of Mr Oellinger than to the speeches of the Social Democrats. But we will still find our points of distinction, as I am sure, and you will still have the opportunity to complete your antifascist duty practice here today. [[Abg. Oils: We have them!]] But please. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Are you not an antifascist?]] If you have followed the budget debate so far, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure you will all be right on one point: That is the very term “future, ” “future, ” “future, ”“ future ”! ‘Future fit’ I heard, ‘future,’ ‘future-conscious’, ‘future-oriented’. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner:... with you past orientation?]] No, this is very important, because you have probably written it in to highlight the special importance of giving particular weight to each chapter. [[Abg. Riepl: Do you want to live in the past?]] This is, as it were, the Tarnschalk, which is supposed to conceal a certain inconsistency in the course of the changes: Future, future, future. But I would like to translate this to you and tell you what that really means. You probably know the saying: “What you can get today, don’t move it to tomorrow!” – If I translate your future orientation and dress in the right words, you’ve made it: What you can get today, move it on tomorrow, on the day after tomorrow, on 2010 or in some areas perhaps even until the Sankt-Nimmerleins day! – This is “future-oriented” in your sense! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we have heard about the discharge in another area is also included here: 2010, maybe – we'll look, we don't know exactly how it all develops. Valorisation of the care allowance: Well, let's see. Maybe sometime! We don't know that very well yet. All over the area of social justice, Minister of Social Affairs: Well, by 2010, we will see how this is going and what comes out in the working groups and in the sub-groups that are truly unable to complain about little employment. There is a second word that you like to use. The term ‘zero deficit’ has now been replaced by a second fashion concept, namely ‘anticyclic’. All of your actions are the outflow of an “anticyclical policy” you mean. Do you know what “anticyclic” means? "Anticyclic" means "anti-reason" – if one understands it by "reasonable", ladies and gentlemen, and that is what we liberals do, what people have expected of this government in the social sphere. And to do that, you have been elected – I have to look at you from the SPÖ in particular; I think you have a bad conscience! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you have an economic study so that you even know what “anticyclic” means?]] You promised a change of course in social policy, you wanted to make a change of course. – You have not changed courses, but you have changed your course, so that you are as well as compatible with the ÖVP as possible and are addressing things in a new socialist modesty – instead of pushing properly on the gas and doing what you have chosen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: What have you been elected for?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The social sector – Mr Oellinger is right – is put together if it is formulated. It's downgraded when you express it a little less purposely. And if you really put it to the point, you can say it's been disarmed. – You have addressed things with a completely different claim! Youth competence is gone – well, not so bad for you, probably. Family competence is gone – perhaps not so bad. And the heart, the area of labour market policy, is also gone – no problem apparently for social democracy! But one or the other will at least press the bad conscience. Instead of bringing social warmth to the people in this country, you have colded yourself. This is a master achievement to bring about as a stronger party! I have to tell you that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This new social policy modesty is in line with the measures you are taking in the social field. There's no exaggeration – and I'm going to give my colleague Ollinger back – when I say you didn't solve the miscarriage. No, you really didn't solve them, you perpetuated them and you made them worse! And there is nothing to be done if, in a disputed way, in one way or another, this problem is being pushed forward in a hustle and bustle between two competent ministers. And if this is no longer useful, then we are beginning to push the problems between the federal government and countries back and forth – but all of this on the back of those who have been waiting for a solution that is finally viable for a long time and far too long. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at what came out of you, you can say: It used to be called: First, eating – if you want to formulate it this way; we can translate it first and say: the money – and then the morals. So you have now taken care of this with a questionable legalization action – and you have done so now –: first of all the morals, but the money you owe to the caregiver is in fact further to you. Mr Sozialminister, you would basically have become quite famous in the field of care, for example, through an annual adjustment of value, or by binding the care effort to a certain percentage of the gross domestic product, with an anchoring of the right to care in the Constitution, as we Liberals have suggested. That would have been a milestone, a big throw! – But not because of its social policies, but because of its hairdressing visits. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He's already famous!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's not always useful!]] - Yeah, that's the way it is. They prefer the way to extend the grey zones in the care area. I'm asking: What is the benefit of creating the legality that you now claim to be if liquidity is lacking? – You have to answer that! You have to let this go on your tongue, you have to look at it: Monthly costs for the round-the-clock care – and that is not what I have calculated, but the Court of Auditors – of about €3500 stands at care level 6 – I already know that this is not the highest – an average care allowance of €1 100. This results in an ordinary hole if you count it once over a month: 2 400 € per month, 28 000 € per year. – This is not the solution of the miscarriage, ladies and gentlemen, but that is the miscarriage! That's how it looks! It is adventurous what you are showing in this area, just as adventurous as one or another, which has already come from this government bank for the pension area. An extension of the hacker control by 2010 is once quite beautiful, you have promised before the choice but something else: You have promised a transition of the hacker scheme to the regular operation! – But you will already have your reasons why the 2010 ominous year appears again, because you are likely to focus not on the interests of the population, but on your interests in terms of the upcoming election campaign. That's exactly what it's all about! This is why this date appears in 2010. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Then put the 1.6 percent increase in the pension every time! – First of all, I hold fast to this, and you know that very well: There would have been much, much more possible! We could have done this at a time when, so to speak, you had not put in the handcuffs of the ÖVP. There would have been several things possible! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: FPÖ has decided on these bad pension schemes!]] Yeah, yeah, there would have been several things, but we've already seen: The pensioners have only half – and no longer at all – of your loved ones at the time. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I'm just telling you. Maybe you should listen a little bit, go inside and take a look before you always walk in between here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That would be recommended to you once too!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: (in the direction of FPÖ) You have decided this, the bad pension right! In 2003 you decided!]] But the Minister of Social Affairs has discovered a new horse. He has something else, the great social policy throw of the century – perhaps even of the millennium, we will see – that is, the minimum guarantee. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The FPÖ has decided on this, the pension right! Forget it!]] I mean, one thing you have to do to him: At least he has recognized – and he is right there, and this allegation is yours – that, of course, poverty is a burning problem, that it is in this country that when you choose children and families, you automatically move one step towards poverty or directly into poverty. That's right! [[Abg. Parnigoni: The 2003 pension reform has decided you with the ÖVP!]] And we know that income shears are increasingly apart and that corporate profits and wages are in a very, very wild discrepancy to each other and that this gap is expanding and not closing. That's right! But what is being done about it is a step in the completely wrong direction, because, on the one hand, a minimum guarantee that does not differ too much from the salaries that people get who pursue employment, the completely false incentive. If you put it a little less effort, you say: This is a plantation for those who are working around this money! I don't know how you can answer that at all. – That's one thing: It is a plantation for those people who have built this land in the past, who have raised children and now have to live with a minimum pension. I do not know where your social democratic social conscience has ever been. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is very pronounced – unlike yours!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This minimum security – and there you just need to take a look at Germany; the thing there is a bit different, but in principle it is the same – cemented poverty, promotes poverty, basically leads you to take a whole group of people out of the labour market at all, and is not the solution to the problem, but the creation of another problem! Now I say something to you, because this is a very important point: We are talking a lot about the security of the social state, about its future security. And if we take “future” seriously, then we must already consider what way we will take in the future. “Social state” and “immigration” – that will now be less welcome to Mr. Oellinger – are two terms that are only associated with the combination “instead of” for us. The social state instead of immigration is called the foreign exchange – and not how you think of the Greens and the SPÖ and of all the others that immigration is, so to speak, safeguarding the social state. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You just have to look at the numbers. A few I can't keep from you now, although it's quite difficult to put these numbers together, but you'll already know why you keep them from the population. In 2005, around 27,500 foreign citizens received child benefits. What is the essential point, Mr. Ollinger? The total share of non-Austrian citizens alone in the total number of child care benefits is 16.2 percent, but the proportion of foreigners in 2005 is interestingly 9 percent. On the one hand, 9 percent, on the other side 16 percent – somehow interesting. Or let us look at the labour market. What about the unemployment of foreigners? We know that most of us are here to secure our social system, and pay the whole amount of contributions so that we can work well in old age. – The share of registered unemployed without Austrian citizenship, we know from the Minister of Labour, in the total registered unemployment in the year averaged 17.6 percent. That may not be much for you, for us. It is not true that the funds are endlessly available; we can see this in the case of self-sustaining, in the case of increases that we could all save ourselves. And that's why I'm wondering what steering effects you're basically doing. – These are not social policies, which are probably more ideologically motivated motives behind them. Let's take a look at the AMS. What do you think? – In the AMS, too, a mega-hope of initiatives, projects, special support for immigrants, for foreigners who cost a sum of money that they don’t have elsewhere. And another number: How high is the proportion of foreigners in emergency aid workers – that is not according to your diction – and in job seekers with a low level of education? What are the resulting costs? – In the annual average 2006, the share of foreign emergency aid beneficiaries was 14.1 percent, 127.2 million euros in social security contributions, and so on, and so on. Now you can say that it is a strange logic when you say on the one hand that those who bring you into the country secure our social system, and on the other hand, we see that these benefit from our social system in an above average ratio. – In our sense, it is not, and I do not understand how you want to explain to people that you take something away from them on the one hand and invest money for non-citizens on the other. This is the accusation we make to you, Mr Social Minister, and that is basically the most serious accusation. You are not even willing to think about these things, you are not willing to raise all of this up properly once and to ensure that there is once a cost-truth in this area. Why do you present these figures to us? Why is this a mouse milking when you try to get some information? I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the claim that immigration secures the social state is ideological wishful thinking and the fulfilment of a social-political battle mission, but that has nothing to do with what the Austrians want. And the accusation weighs all the more because it goes at the expense of future generations! If we don't act soon, the damage won't be right. – You will bear the responsibility for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47000	The next item is the speech by Mr Amon. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47021	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: Now comes the statement on property tax!]] Mr Kickl, in his statement, criticised the fact that the government agreement describes the future so much and so often. – You are the best example of the fact that too strong a past orientation is not acceptable either. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This criticism really goes empty, Mr. Kickl! I've actually been surprised that you have succeeded – I don't know how long you've spoken now, but it's been about 10 minutes – to make a lot of criticism all the time, but not a single proposal – you haven't made a single proposal! – how to improve anything. [[Abg. Parnigoni: 15!]] – This is not our right to policy, I would like to say that very clearly to you. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Then you didn't listen, my colleague.]] I don't understand that you say there was no change of course, because we're actually satisfied with the fact that there was no change of course. Especially in social policy, I believe that what has happened in recent years and is being developed further – including Mrs Ex-Social Minister Haubner has her merits on it – and that what we have done in further development, what is in the government programme, in all cases good measures for the successful development of the country. I would like to speak now because you, Mr Kickl, who have criticised very much, are the miscarriage. I believe that the housekeeping law, which Mr Bartenstein, together with Mr Buchinger, has been negotiating with Mr Buchinger, which has been known since yesterday, in all the details, is a very essential and good step, because it leads to legality, it leads to legal certainty in the field of labour law. There are two options to pursue such an activity: on the one hand, as a self-employed person or on the other, as part of an employee relationship. I think that's the right way to do that: put things on legally perfect legs. [[Abg. Oillinger: What is legal flawless?]] Don't criticize this, because you didn't bring any proposals! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The second point, Mr Oellinger, is: Negotiations with the countries relating to care are also pending or not concluded. Of course, this is the second area where Mr Buchinger, the Federal Minister, has made an extraordinary effort to agree with the federal states to provide solutions to ensure that the whole thing is financed. It looks like government work, Mr Oellinger, which you do not trust in, as we all know. [[Abg. Oellinger: Let me go to the government! Let's change!]] You prefer to sit in opposition – and there you fit in because you just criticise and don't make any suggestions on how to do better. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This federal government and we as members of the government also take the issue of combating poverty very seriously. It must be said that the definition of “poverty” of course also changes with the growing prosperity so to speak, and therefore, of course, adjustments and adaptations are necessary from time to time. It was therefore, I think, right to define the minimum pension with €726 before government was formed. – A real step, ladies and gentlemen, we have taken! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] It is particularly important for us – and this should not be underestimated, please; therefore, Federal Minister, we have always opposed basic security without work, because it is not our access – that the basic access to poverty reduction must already be labour. There must be an incentive for people to pursue employment; derived from the Christian social doctrine, which can be read in such a way that one can say that an income without work – except now after a working life in the form of a pension – has in the long run also something worthless in itself. Work is already at the heart of our attention, and I am therefore extremely glad that the social partners are trying to find a solution that ensures a minimum wage of € 1,000 in full employment. – I think this is a right approach, including those areas which are not collectively contractual. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third, in addition to minimum pension and minimum wage: the model of demand-oriented minimum guarantee. We have agreed on this concept in the context of coalition negotiations. I think that's really interesting. Finally, I would like to say a few words about the pension system, because I already believe that this is, of course, an essential part of social policy. Mrs Csörgits rightly again today criticised the concept of “hackler regulation”. I would strongly argue that, as part of the legislative decision on the extension of the ‘hackler regulation’ to 2010, we may agree to amend this term, possibly delete it from the law. In my view, this is a concept that has something quite discriminating in itself, and I believe that we should define a new term here; perhaps we can get it started together. The removal of any hardship is important to us. I would, however, like to say to Mr Kickl, who said: “What you can get today, don’t move it to tomorrow!” a Russian proverb says: “The morning is smarter than the evening.” – In some things, it is only later that one comes to the effect that they have in real life. That is why I would like to thank Wolfgang Schüssel very much – he is just present, but I would have done it otherwise – for the massive advance in the past legislative period to create a general pension law that will bring more justice to everyone and ensure that someone who pays € 1 will also receive the same benefit for it, regardless of where he is insured. This has set an example in which one can only criticize one thing, namely that it has not been set 30 years ago. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Federal Minister! We have a lot ahead of us in the social field. I think we had a good start with the points we made on the trip. – In this sense, good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47176	The next item is the speech by Mrs Haubner. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47200	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Effective, fair and fair social policy has many different levels. But one thing, I think, is clear to all of us: Everything has to be oriented to people, to their concerns, to their concerns and to their needs. This consensus existed in the last government, this consensus exists, I hope, in the current government and here in the House. In recent years – it has already been addressed by my previous speaker Werner Amon – we have taken an important social step by creating a uniform pension right, with which we have secured pensions – not only for those who are in retirement today, but also for the future pensioners. I think that has been one of the most important steps in a fair social policy. We are in the forefront of this in Europe as well. However, we have also tried to create various flexible transitions for pension – the so-called long-term insurance scheme is one of them. However, we also included retirement periods for family work. Here, I think a big throw has been successful in recent years. We have also begun to take measures to relieve caring families. It was introduced for the first time – a platform for caregivers – and with retirement periods for caregivers a first step was taken. In this new government, Mr Federal Minister, if I have understood you correctly, you have fixed three areas on which you have said that these are your most important tasks; these are also due to the size of your ministry. My previous speakers have already said that it has been very speculated, so I would like to point out once again that there was an additional health and women's ministry under Herbert Haupt by 2002. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Whether you liked it or not, it was. [[Abg. Olympians: Not me like that!]] From 2002 to 2006, the great generation was involved, and this was very important, because social policy can always be made only in the sense of balance between generations and in the sense of solidarity between generations. You have said that three areas are important to you: minimum insurance, pensions and care. Short to minimum security Taking an opinion, I would like to say that it is very difficult to assess it because nothing is on the table yet. But for us, for the BZÖ, I can say: For us, a minimum guarantee is only possible if it concerns people who are temporarily in social distresses, in difficult situations of life. We do not support unemployment income for all those who want it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We want a security for those they need, but not for all they want. Secondly, Pension area. Especially the SPÖ has promised the more than 2 million pensioners a lot before the elections and – if we look at it now – has kept very little. There is a new stress wave in the field of health insurance contributions. There is a load wave for the drivers. You have promised that pensions will be increased according to the pension index – if we look into the budget now, only the increase after the CPI is included. They have also promised that 45 years or 40 years are enough. If I look at the so-called reform of the reform, which you, Mr Federal Minister, are about to pass on to Parliament and which we will discuss in the Committee, I must say that I am very glad that the promises made before the election by the Social Democratic Party – that this pension package will be reinvigorated and made fairer and fairer – will not be implemented. And if you boast now that you are extending the “hackler regulation” – the long-term insured scheme – then I have to say one thing: This long-term insurance scheme goes until 2017, as you haven't changed anything! The only thing you've done is that by the 2010 election year, you'll make two additional years off. Should be, but let's be honest: Is that the big throw? [[Abg. Riepl: Who introduced the discounts?]] If you say that you are now safeguarding the contribution base of €1 350 for child training times, for attendance service, for civil service, then that is positive, I can support you. But I'm asking: Why – I think that was the last government that introduced this €1 350. [[Abg. Shopf: Who introduced that?]] [[Interlocutory calls by Mr Dolinschek and Mr Riepl.]] I don't understand why you're so excited! – Why Forget In this arrangement, do you care for those families, those parents who are severely disabled? Here we still have the contribution basis of €995, here nothing is adjusted, here nothing is secured. Let us look at the improvement of retirement periods for care – I find them positive! We have taken a first step from the care level 3. What you're doing now is not only complicated, but also very unfair to those who have care level 5 because they get all contributions counted as retirement periods, those from the care level 3 will only be replaced by the service providers' contributions, those from the care level 4 will only receive a half employee's contribution, and those from the care level 5 will receive everything. There's no one else to know! I think we need to stick to a standard in the care. Most care cases are taken at home from the point of view of care level 3 – and that is why everything has to be oriented. Let's continue with the care. – I think it’s similar to the promises for pensions. Before the election – after the call of the care emergency – you said: The care allowance is increased or valorised, and the care system is immediately secured in a sustainable and manageable manner. – Now we do not have a double budget increase, let alone a valorization. Mr. Federal Minister, you certainly know the study of the Federal Ministry, in which caring relatives were asked about their relationship with mobile services – whether they are satisfied with using these mobile services. As 42 percent of caring relatives have said that they do not use mobile services because they cannot afford to do so. That must call out to a social minister, since he must say: I need to increase the care money so that these services for those who care for and care for at home are manageable! An overall solution is far removed. This is not only what I say, but – you all know it very well – that is what the big organizations say, that is, the representatives of the municipal government, the town government and so on. Practical for all the noise that is now generated around the care, this is about this 24-hour care and care project, of which about 2 to 5 percent of the caregivers are affected. Now there is a project report, passed by the government or decided this week in the Council of Ministers, and I am taking it away – which is positive; I am not only criticising it, but also wish to highlight the positive – new schemes that relate to people from level 3 onwards. That's okay, I think, is right. But what are you doing, Minister? – If I interpret this correctly, you said: Funding for the caregivers is only available from the care level 5. Now I'm wondering, What do those between care level 3 and care level 5 do? How does that fit in? – That’s not fair, that’s unsocial! You are not the Minister of Finance, but you are the Minister of Social Affairs. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this lecture, care activities can be found that self-employment is possible in the future. I am in favour of this being possible, and we have always demanded it. But I wonder, Why aren't the home helpers involved here? – The home helpers we have trained in recent years with appropriate qualified training would have an opportunity to work here. These are very many women who have been trained and are partly unemployed because they cannot afford to hire them. That's what I'm asking myself: Why should I put it? Do you not agree, Minister of State, and do you ensure that the countries implement the Article 15a agreements for home help? Do you want to integrate them into this project? I even miss a discussion in the context of the entire care discussion on new job opportunities, which can be used in the short term and in the medium term, job opportunities for young people, I think of the teaching profession for care, but I also think of older women who have a lot of experience in the social field and could be used here. Personally, it is a very big concern – you already know from the Committee, Mr. Federal Minister – that those young people who make a voluntary volunteer every year in the social field – and some in Austria – will also be taken into account at this time: a time as part of their vocational training, or as an account for internships and the like, for a subsequent training in the care and care field. [[Abg. Oillinger: But the family allowance would have been more important!]] This would, of course, mean – I give you the right, and this is also contained in our request – that, if this year is counted, family aid will also be paid accordingly. [[Abg. Oellinger: You were responsible for this!]] You know very well that I gave a so-called bonus for all these social services for the previous and this year. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Seven years you have had time and nothing done!]] We now want this to be put on a proper basis in the context of this care discussion. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Seven years you have had time!]] I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Finally, I can say that there are four areas of care for us from the BZÖ, where there must be solutions to ensure that care is legal, quality and manageable. [[Abg. Riepl: Seven years you have slept – and now you are getting smarter!]] The first field of action is prevention. We need to do more here in order to also move care out of time. Mr Federal Minister, you know that there are many projects in the field of prevention in the Social Ministry that have gone very well. I hope you're going to continue. The Second, further relief and support for caring relatives. Some things have already happened. You now want to go a step further with pension insurance for caregivers, which is basically correct in the sense of the above-mentioned criticism. I am also looking for you to get closer to the successes and results of the care check model, so that you can also have an additional care allowance for caregivers. The third area of action is the improvement of services. I have already pointed out the professions and the re-trainings that you do not directly concern, but I think that like a women's minister, a social minister has to interfere everywhere. The fourth – and this is certainly the most difficult – is the funding to ensure a balance between the federal, state and local authorities. I hope that the study I have commissioned will help you to make this decision. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us conduct an honest and intense discussion about care, without uncertainty, without contradictions, because people have not deserved to be carried out daily on their backs in the media. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47404	The motion for a resolution which Mrs Haubner has just put forward has been duly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47463	The next speaker is Mr Buchinger, Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47484	Thank you very much, Madam President. High house! Mr Kickl – if I have understood him correctly – has criticized the future of the budget discussion. [[Abg. Kickl: No, no, no!]] I cannot understand your considerations here because the 2007 and 2008 budgets had the task of creating the financial framework in these two years that the future 2007 and 2008 could be designed. [[Abg. Kickl: You quickly forgot what you promised!]] I would also like to do little about the past and look at the question: Is this now a radical change of course in the new social chapter, is this a slight change of course? It is important to look to the future in order to make social policy new, social and fair for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: Have you forgotten what you promised?]] If you, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition, do the fair and prejudiceless and look at the figures, then you will see that in Chapter 15 of the 2007 proposal, measured at the 2006 estimate, by 6.6 percent, you will see that the figure for 2008 is 9.8 percent. In Chapter 16, the amounts are also considerable, although percentageally smaller. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] It is critically noted by Mr Kickl and you, Mr Oellinger, that the Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection – what did you say? – has been disassembled, speckled and disassembled. I do not have much to do with this language system, because I think that the social sector, as it is now set up, has three important fields – Mrs Haubner rightly referred to them –: the field of pension security, the field of care security and poverty prevention and, of course, the important area of employment for people with disabilities. These are very important tasks, and the importance of these tasks is also documented by the fact that the share of the Social Ministry in the overall budget is 16 percent – as you rightly say, Mr. Oellinger – and this is still the third most financially strong place in the world. This is a lot of money, which means a great opportunity to design – of course also a lot of responsibility for the Minister of Social Affairs, for the social partners and for the House, which will advise and decide on the relevant legal innovations that we are introducing. Mr Oellinger, you say you even had nightmares under the housekeeping law. I do not wish you had these nightmares, you should be able to get older in health. I can assure you that you can get support from me through a conversation – and you have also received support from me in the social field – by informing you, Mr. Oellinger, that in fact, both in the Home Care Act and in the parallel Federal Care Act, § 21b, are designed for opportunities for improvement in the field of care. The housekeeping law is not directly my matter, that has been negotiated by Mr Bartenstein, but partly with me, because I was concerned, in two important points, namely in the area of quality assurance and in the field of the relationship of independence and independence, that the original draft is indeed in line with the needs of care. And since we have been negotiating for a long time, in some cases also very different positions, but for the good end, we have achieved a result that has two major advantages in the field of quality assurance: that Minister Bartenstein and I are being adopted two regulations in accordance with § 69(1) and § 69(2) of the Commercial Regulation, where rules for the first exercise, i.e. rules for the activity can be drawn up and quality rules to be observed, where the second care advice will be ensured at the beginning and ongoing care and control, so that the rules will also be complied with, and where, on the third hand, what is very important to me and what I have announced in the Council of Ministers, the Directive, which the Ministry of Social Affairs is adopted to ensure the promotion of the 24-hour care at home, this promotion will also start with self-employed employment, which will include theoretical training for home help as a point of reference. In this way, we ensure that, in the area where self-employed people are cared for, a level is maintained which ensures that the quality of care is adequate and good for the persons concerned. If you say, Mr Oellinger – and also Mr Kickl and Mrs Haubner – that this is not the overall solution to the care problem, then you are right. In fact, that's not the overall solution. The overall problem of care is more complex and powerful. That's what it's about keeping important and urgent. The 24-hour care is by far not the most important issue in the field of care security – I still come to the most important questions – but it is the most pressing question, because a solution has to be found. Then: So far – and this accusation cannot be spared from the previous government and also from you, Mrs Haubner – these forms of 24-hour care have been dealt with in a way, they have remained in the illegality, which is unreasonable, both for the persons cared for and for the employees in this area. We are now no longer looking away, we will regulate the labour law side with very high probability and also the support page with great probability as far as it stands in our power. We do everything we can in the negotiations with the countries. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not the most important question, but the most urgent one. There is a question that is less urgent, where we may have a year, but which is also important. This question has rightly been raised by Mrs Haubner, and this is the question of real implementation of the quality standards in outpatient care, in part-stationary care and also in stationary care, which are the responsibility of the countries and communities and which are essentially based on the Article 15a agreement, and in particular to bring part-stationary and outpatient care into the area. That is not the case at present. Day care centres are only available in the larger cities, in the country de facto only in whole, very few exceptions. Short-term care is only promoted in two federal states, the outpatient care must be extended from the network. This will be a challenge, and the federal government will also find a way to address these second most important tasks in care security in a one- to two-year period with cooperation offers and co-financing offers. Debates of the European Parliament But the most important issue of care insurance is – and I would like to say this clearly – to ensure that care and care is provided financially for the next ten, 20, 30 years, especially for the elderly, but also for the disabled, because we know that this sustainable, future-proof solution has not been found by the current system of care money and the state-of-the-art funding provided by countries and communities under the title of social assistance. This is not only a problem in Austria, it is a problem in all European countries, and there are essentially four variants. Variant 1: It is said that the public hand does not matter at all, that is what the private themselves have to handle. – This is a neoliberal access that we do not represent. Variant 2: You make a public insurance system. This is, for example, required by the President of the municipality of Mödlhammer. We can discuss this and we will also discuss it. The disadvantage of this proposal: The burden of the labour factor will be increased, additional labour costs will be increased, and funding will again be charged only part of the building elements. Variant 3: This is to be financed from the general tax revenue, as is the case in the case of care money. Variant 4 or the one I prefer, which I have brought into the discussion – and then I meet my colleague, Ollinger – it is to introduce a property tax which is intended to cover care and poverty reduction issues. This does not have to be today, not next year, but in order to make it sustainable, this should be considered seriously in the next few years and then implemented. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This actually has the advantage – which the Commissioner rightly calls here as a present weakness – that at present someone who has wealth and comes into stationary care must fully exploit this assets, either equal to or with note in the basic book, if it cannot be liquidated at the same time. This would have the great advantage of a property tax, which is intended, that it would de facto act as a solidarity distribution of these charges by the individual person concerned, who will be taken all the assets in the case of care at the time of risk, on all the assets, and thus would be acceptable and fitable. – This discussion on the future of care assurance should not be conducted with ideological suffrages, but with the expertise. For a second reason, I am still interested in the 24-hour care, because, as consumers, as citizens, we are used to not being satisfied with an offer in many life-related contexts, we say: in the care sector with stationary care. We are used to having freedom of choice as a powerful citizen, and this should also be considered as an alternative to the high care requirement where it is acceptable from quality, namely between stationary care and home care. And to be able to afford this also to those people who have medium and lower incomes, it needs public support. We will start with this at the beginning of the care stage 5, according to the proposed § 21b Federal Care Money Act, because there is the highest care and care needs there. There it has been explained from the law that a round-the-clock supervision or maintenance is necessary. And that's why we're going to start. After a year and a half, two years, we will evaluate this and, at least, make an extension to other areas. You have seen in the Bundesfinanzgesetz that in this year a budget surplus allowance of € 18.5 million is planned and next year such an amount of € 34 million is planned to ensure a federal share in this co-financing. Mr Kickl has still said that according to the government agreement, the care allowance will only be valorised once in these four years. – Yes, this is criticized by the affected, by the disabled and also by the elderly organisations. We could all imagine an ongoing valorization. We'd like it anyway. But, Mr Kickl, what did the previous governments do? – The last valorizations of the care allowance were in 1995 and 2005. Thus, in a ten-year period, it was once valorized, namely in 2005. So 1995 and then again in 2005. We shorten the period of valorization of the care allowance from ten years to four years – and this is not an insignificant progress. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Kickl, what you have said about the need-oriented minimum security and the fight against poverty – and I do not want to get too close to you – is encouraging me in my presumption that there is still a lack of information in this regard. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] I would like to offer myself the opportunity to help eliminate these misinformation. I would like to invite you to a conversation to show that what Mr Amon has said is that our model of minimum safety is a springboard in the first labour market. This is also due to the fact that care is to be taken in the model that the care of these minimum insurance providers is to be carried out by the labour market service. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] Yes, what idea do you think, Mr Kickl, is behind this approach? – There’s no mere administration behind that – you can do that in the Social Office – but the motivation behind this approach is that these minimum insurance providers can be brought back to work in the labour market service of experts for work, even if they have intermediate steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Haubner, you know that I appreciate your work as a Minister of Social Affairs in many parts of the world and also relate to this work in many areas, especially when it comes to employment for the disabled. We are continuing this employment offensive, but we are on the increase because we need even more strength in this area. But if you say that in the area of mitigating the hardships of the last pension laws we take, the only thing you find here is that two years of additional discount-free are made, then I have to correct you. On the one hand, there are three years: 2008, 2009 and 2010. This is not irrelevant. Approximately 16 000 Austrians per year benefit from the extension of the long-term insurance scheme. Overall, this will be 38 percent of new pensioners in the coming years, with an average pension increase of about €80 by this extension measure. That is the only thing that happens for those affected – almost 50,000 people – according to your opinion. For me, these are very, very important steps in their life planning. And we are pleased in the government that, with the implementation of the government programme, we have decided together in the Council of Ministers on Wednesday to draw the poison teeth of the last pension laws, so quickly!, after 100 days, and that we will give you the opportunity to make a quick decision in Parliament on 1 January. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] A final sentence on colleague Kickl: You're right – They are really right here – I am not prepared, as a social minister, to think about how some of those people in Austria, who by their work, by their added value, contribute to the fact that there is wealth in Austria, that the social funds in Austria are also filled with deposits, only because they are not Austrian citizens or citizens, can exclude them from the social security system. I am not ready for this – and I will not be ready in the next few years, and I hope that my successors in this function will not be ready.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47609	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Maier. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47632	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Haubner passed on a suggestion to Mr Buchinger. I too would like to pass on one to him as a SP consumer protection speaker. Mr Federal Minister, a consumer protection speaker always has to interfere when consumer concerns are concerned. You're doing great. I would like to thank you very much, the so-called freshly caught Minister for Consumer Protection. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Aubauer.]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The 2007 and 2008 budgets also ensure the financing of the Consumer Information Association. Without the federal support, the Consumer Information Association would not be able to lead in the current form. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the colleagues who advise Austrian consumers there on a daily basis, represent them in court, carry out the tests and write in the “consumer” magazine. They do an excellent job in our civil society. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, with these funds there is also the possibility of promoting certain projects. And one of these projects is the fight against the indebtedness of Austrian households. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I remember exactly: In 1987 we presented the first study in the Chamber of Workers Salzburg, exactly 20 years ago. She said: “Salzburg’s households in red figures”, written by my colleague, Mrs Mag. Renate Bohemia. In this way we have initiated a discussion in Austria. And I remember the time of discussion where it was said that one had to distinguish whether someone was in debt or in debt, and the resistance was great. In 1995 the private insolvency proceedings were regulated. It was a legal milestone that was laid at the time, although we now have to consider, in the light of increasing problems, whether the legal provisions that exist are still sufficient. Yesterday, an excellent event of the Consumer Protection Section at Wilhelminenberg took place. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank the Head of Section and the staff for the orientation of this event. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] High house! It was about the question of the debt of the Austrian households. It was about the problems with the order of execution. It was about the role of the state. One thing was clearly said: The state must not be the cause of poverty. Then: One thing we should also seriously discuss: There are people who have to live far below the minimum of existence. There are exceptions to the Rules of Procedure, and we should seriously discuss a new regulation in this area. We should also talk about the problems of wage paving, which generally hinder the rehabilitation of over-indebted households. I cannot sum up all the results of yesterday's discussion. But one thing is clear, High House: If we want to give people a chance to get rid of debts, then at national level a package of measures is necessary. Professor Kathrein of the Ministry of Justice called it a political mix yesterday. Civil law measures are necessary. We need to think about an evaluation of the system of execution, of the private insolvency procedure, on access to private insolvency and also on the development of advice. For this – and I say that quite openly – additional funds will be necessary. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We have a very big challenge here. We from the Socialist Group can assure you, Minister of State: We will be happy to take up the proposals from your department and the proposals from the judicial body in order to give the people who are indebted a chance again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47709	Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking next time. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47730	Madam President. Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say to you, Mr Social Minister, about the answers you gave me in the Committee on Budgets: I am used to a lot of things – by your predecessor, Mrs Haubner, we have never been spoiled with information on a parliamentary question – but what you have done there, Minister, is really no longer portable! I'll show you now on the basis of individual cases. At the time, I asked what they wanted to do, so that the classification of disabled children in the care sector would finally be made the way it has to happen, namely that they are really classified according to the needs. And you, Mr Minister, wrote me back, apart from the fact that the country's business is, you ask me to report specific cases so that they can conduct a review. This answer is from 26. April. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: What did I write before, a sentence before?]] Mr. Minister, those who have only occasionally looked into a newspaper for the last 14 days, or perhaps have turned up the TV and watched “ZiB”, cannot ask this question because these — I do not call them cases — fates of parents of disabled children have gone through the media. And probably in this respect not only the journalists called, but also with them. Mr Minister, this is how it should be done by saying: We don't know that, tell us, if there's anything!, your office isn't worthy. I hope that when you sign such answers again, you will first look at what is inside and not simply turn around in the paper and sign the next reply. Or, Minister: I told you that in recent months hundreds of people with disabilities have been controlled by the AMS. Controlled means that they no longer receive unemployment benefit, that they are financially hanging in the air, in the truest sense of the word, because you are not entitled to a pension either. And the only thing that's the life perspective for these people with 20, 30, 40 years of age is social assistance. – Mr Minister, that can't be it! I asked you, Minister: What's going to be Do you really do so that the elimination of these hundreds of people is taken back or so that these people do not become beneficiaries of social assistance at the age of 20, 30 for their entire life? In response I received a copy of the relevant passage from the government program. This has been copied as well as the answer to the question: What's going to be In principle, do you want to reduce unemployment? Mr Minister, I do not want to have this in the future – and I am telling you very personally – but I will not accept it in the future, because these are specific questions, and therefore we do not want to bother anyone, and therefore I expect you to have at least a minimum of quality in reply. But with what you have delivered to me, a minimum of quality cannot be the case, but I feel that – I tell you quite honestly, but I cannot use the term, but you already know what I mean. It is indeed true, Minister! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] To this end, that the compensatory taxes of revenue are no longer in the budget, please write me back: That's so, because that's your own legal personality now! [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: Yes!]] [[Abg. May. Lap: It's always been like that!]] It's always in the budget. Why not this time? It has not changed the legal form of the Federal Social Office compared with 2006. Why was it last time, and why isn't it in this time? That was my question! And how high the revenue will be, I haven't experienced to this day. That's not in it either. These were once my criticisms of these questions. I could say a lot more about that, but there are other areas too. Mr Minister, in the title of "housekeeping law", it could be assumed that this is an objective matter and that it concerns houses. But if you read this more accurately, then you're thinking that it's not about houses, it's about people living in houses and apartments. Mr Minister, we are now already being objectively told that it is not about personalities, but about houses, and it is called “housekeeping law” is its own quality. - That's one. The other thing is: I've been very happy for the last few weeks that you said: No, it can't be, in the draft of the Bartenstein – I could quote some newspaper articles to you now – it just doesn't work out, something has to be changed!, and that you haven't very concrete, but after all, provided approaches to proposals. But what do we know since yesterday? – Mr Minister, you have agreed to the Bartenstein paper without a change, so to speak, to point out. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: No!]] Mr Minister, don't say no! You can then read the draft. And I'll tell you: I'm right! But we can read this in parallel if you want. And that, Minister, is not okay! You know that. You may be aware of what you produce with it, but you have not resisted the pressure of the Bartenstein. You say, Minister, it costs €3,000 if you need 744 hours. I'll tell you: That's not true! I made my phone call yesterday and I learned that one hour costs €22, no matter at any care club. That's the average hourly rate. And at €22, if I get €3 000, I can afford exactly 4.8 hours a day. And then I'm through with my register, so to speak. Or I think workers who really have to do this work at a zero rate, either for social or economic reasons. But that can't be done either. Your goal, Mr Minister, is that everything remains the same as it is now, namely that only persons who come from abroad and earn little money do the care work. And they will at least no longer earn, probably even less, because social security is still to be paid. And they are now even contractually bound to stay in the house, and so to speak, the train runs over it. So this free time offer is now being created for this workforce, Minister, you would not be undermined in any other collective agreement, but in the house-care law, when it comes to the situation of elderly people who are dependent on assistance and care, it seems that this is happening. Labour market policy and labour law is this house-care law, Mr Minister, a law that really cries out to heaven, because it is not an old law that belongs to reformed, but because it is a new law, where you have again cemented what the worst collective contract we have in Austria does not have. But this law is here again. Mr Minister, I am getting a goose skin, because the people concerned are now forced, under these miserable conditions, if they want to stay at home, to take these people out more or less, or – I really mean it – to exploit them, because, under this law, they are no longer inside. Mr Minister, this is a total crasher to which nothing can be said. You can't do that, Minister! I'll tell you what it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Minister, you cannot do this as a social politician! As a politician, who has always felt responsible for the work situation of working people, they cannot abandon a professional group in such a way that nothing remains under the rule! Mr Minister, I do not know what your colleague Bartenstein has done with you or what you have received as a prize for it, but I ask you to change this, because even people working in the care sector have a legitimate right to decent treatment, to decent remuneration and to leisure time, as has been enforced in all other professional groups. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I also asked what it looks like with personal assistance? You wrote to me about this housekeeping law – a small note: I'm not a house, you're right again – has nothing to do with personal assistance, because personal assistance is a matter of the countries. Mr. Minister, I need to inform you about this: Some say they need a caretaker and a helper, I need an assistant. And many of my colleagues also need an assistant, a personal assistant. In addition, many also need assistance at the workplace. But you have mixed or confused these two things – consciously or unconsciously. Personal assistance must also be regulated in the future – but not with such a “windy” housekeeping law, but it must be laid on proper track or put on proper legs. Since the BAGS, where we know that the basic salaries are very low, must not be the starting point, but we want to be able to pay decently for the staff we need, so that we also have the chance to get really good staff that we need. But if it is approved, but not paid, because we are first cleaned off like the Christian trees at least after Christmas, Minister, then we all somehow live in a 10-m2 chamber, where we can no longer let our staff sleep in their own bed. It's no longer possible. Create They are the prerequisites, Minister, that all people – no matter why they are disabled, no matter how old they are and how intensive the disability is – actually find living conditions with which they can grow old without fear and with confidence, they can also grow very old, and never have to blame themselves: I took advantage of my staff, the state forced me to do so! – It must not be under the rule! But now, Mr Minister, even with this housekeeping law, that is exactly what remains, and we do not want to do so. And that's why, Minister: Do something, even if you have overlooked it in the first step, because with Bartenstein I don't know what happened, but don't allow people to be exploited even more, especially in the social field than they already do! Then: This is an exploitation that can no longer be surpassed. There must be no such exploitation! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47830	The next item is the speech by Mr Rädler. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47851	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! I would like to deal with four points of consumer protection today. – It is generally welcome that a Consumer Protection Committee has been set up during this period. That is, I think, in the interests of all consumers. It is always said that this is a cross-sectional matter. In fact, every issue is consumer protection. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr – she is not here now – is privileged in the sense, Mr. Federal Minister, that at least she has received an answer from the last discussions in the budget on the allocation of funds for consumer protection. [[Abg. Ollinger: It's got to go back there!]] I have not received an answer to this day; I mean to be “privileged”. I don't know why. I just asked you to tell us how this budget allocation should take place. For the first time, €3.5 million is intended for consumer protection, and of course it is also in our interest to know where these funds are used. It has already been stressed that the work of the VKI is very valuable and significant in the interests of consumers, but we do not know what resources are now available for the VKI. There are still a few things to do here, such as networking, so a single point of contact for consumers. There's still a lot of work in front of us. A topic I would like to address is corporate social responsibility. We still have a lot to do with this. [[Call the ÖVP: What? Who?]] – Now there would be an applause. [[Cheerfulness, congratulation and bravorage at the ÖVP.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, some probably do not know what this is about. [[Lively cheerfulness at the ÖVP.]] This is about the social need to deal with how production is going on in the farms today. I am not talking about child labour in our widths, but rather about whether all aspects of social law are also respected in production, whether production is based on ecological orientations and whether the economy is also involved in the form of domestic resources, which involve regional products. This is a huge area of responsibility, because this is also a certification of the products we want to achieve. There is also a great task ahead of us. Perhaps a word on the subject of care services. Mr Oellinger, I am of your opinion. And because you have addressed the personal concern: I am not personally affected in this case, but I am affected as mayor because I am confronted with such cases every day. I think we all have been called here as political representatives, because this issue is from 30 onwards, I think, for everyone indirectly and directly a subject, whether he is affected or not, but it is a generation problem. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Not just!]] Yes, you're perfectly right! But, of course, it is also a topic of the future that should concern all of us. And if we have now created the house-care law, the legal framework for it by Federal Minister Bartenstein, this is very important. Even worse, beyond June, we would have extended this care transition law and created an Austrian solution, namely a provisorium. And we don't want to do that. Of course we need money, too. Mr Federal Minister, if the estimates of the additional funds in individual cases are between €1 400 and €2 600 per month, then we will probably have to break our heads over the next few weeks. But it can't be – and I'm not your opinion – that you think about a property tax. Mr Oellinger, what is wealth? – If family members today already have to give up their entire wealth because they give their mother to the nursing home – they do not give you voluntarily, but they are just in the professional life – then the question is: Who is to be used in the future? I believe that we also have other sources of state income and should not think about the wealth there is in this country. Where does the wealth begin? Is it the property? Is it home ownership? Or is it the car I need to take the child to school or to kindergarten? A very differentiated funding needs to be found here, but we still have time to think about it. But we need solutions; there is the same opinion as you. One issue is that it has also been addressed in the Consumer Protection Committee or in the Budget Committee: the issue of light on the day, which moves us all. And I would really like to call on all the political leaders in this House to think about how we are seen from the outside and how we are being judged. I was not very pleased with the Committee on Transport when it came to anchoring the measure “light a day” by law. But I've been convinced by the experts that this is a sensible measure. Despite rising car numbers in the safety area, we have achieved a lot: In 1970 we had around 2,000 traffic deaths a year, today it is about 780. – But these are still 780 traffic deaths too many. But whether “light on the day” actually contributes so decisively to road safety, we did not know before. We've been convinced by the traffic experts. And now we're questioning the whole thing again and starting to discuss it again? The automotive industry has changed, all cars that are now on the market will be equipped with automatic light. Many consumers have already invested and have been converted. – And now we go back as politicians and say: Well, maybe that's not good? And then you get the idea: Maybe we should just do it in winter? Or maybe we'll just do it on Sunday? I believe that we, too, will be judged by political representatives across all parties. What law is, what we have decided, should now remain law for an introduction phase – as long as we haven't yet. I would like to call you all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47937	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the rules: 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47961	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rädler, I am sorry to have to correct you. You said in your speech that Mrs Haidlmayr was not here. I'll put it right: Mrs Haidlmayr has always been there today. It only has to be able to cope with the path to its seat, leave the plenary room and return to its seat outside. If the ÖVP agreed to a modification of the plenary room, we would have dealt with this problem as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e47996	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48017	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rädler had a bit of a hustle and bustle. I also come to something brighter in my remarks, but first of all to the seriousness of the matter. I would like to refer to a discussion between ÖVP and SPÖ on public debt. Ladies and gentlemen of these two parties, by the government, don't worry, you're both to blame! We have a debt mountain of 190 billion euros of government debt, and you both have to answer for that! But what is even worse is that this debt continues and that one will not fail. But we'll see how things develop. I would just like to repeat briefly to my colleagues Kickl. Herbert Kickl also wanted to say that the population has the impression that money is taken into control by the state at any time for foreigners. However, when it comes to concerns concerning Austrian citizens, it is only reluctant to do things. I only recall the legitimate concerns raised in the area of pension increases. I'm actually starting in a form like it's not usual. I would like to start with a motion for a resolution. This concerns the subject raised by Mrs Csörgits, Mrs Haubner and also Mr Kickl, namely the 'hackler rule'. It's all explained. However, it is not explained how workers get legal certainty, because every employee, every employee, must know under what financial conditions he or she can retire. And above all, this is an issue that is particularly relevant to lower incomes, because this is really about every euro. Therefore, the following application: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's the first one. [[Abg. May. Lapp: How is this going to happen?]] Now a few words about the housekeeping law presented yesterday or yesterday. Mr Buchinger, your colleague from the other group has been very praised for this great law. As far as you are concerned, today I have missed praise from your ranks so far – probably because people know exactly that something is not the best thing here. I think there is still an evil awakening in this area, because if you read what the Court of Auditors say about what the old professionals mean – they totally reject this new regulation of the housekeeping law – and what the NGOs think about it, you cannot be very optimistic. In my opinion, Mr Federal Minister, it would be very interesting to learn: What now do those families who have previously hired Slovaks, Czechs to do – what do I know – 2, 3 € in the hour that the caregivers have cared for? How will this continue in the future? Because that's the practice, and we have to find an answer. What will that cost in the future? How much more does this cost to those affected? And who pays, above all, the differences that must definitely occur? Go to the next point. – Uschi Haubner mentioned earlier that there had been a regulation concerning the rights of civil servants. I guess that's right. We have meant that this means that all civil servants' rights are regulated. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because there are huge differences among officials as regards legal claims and, above all, with regard to pension schemes. However, I would like to stress that the Austrian federal, state and municipal officials are to do excellent work and thank them very much. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Friend.]] There is a great disparity with regard to service rights. The federal government has adhered halfway to the ASVG rule. We have thought the countries are joining this development, but unfortunately there are privileges, especially in the field of the magistrate Vienna. There are privileges that, according to the Court of Auditors, will cost us €800 million by 2016 than if the Federal Service Rights were to apply. Ladies and gentlemen, the taxpayers do not see this, because that is unfair and unfair! And above all, the ASVG officials and the federal officials are wondering: Why do the country regulations – which also concerns Carinthia, also concerns Tyrol, also concerns Upper Austria, almost everyone – do not agree with the federal regime? [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] The Federal Government merely has the opportunity to exert pressure on the financial compensatory negotiations and to say: If we call on the federal regime, then there may be all the money from the financial compensatory negotiations. I am already very excited whether the two-thirds majority will remedy this issue or whether this injustice will continue. As far as retirement provisions are concerned, I can only say: Last year, according to the Court of Auditors, 1,752 officials retired; 143 of which 65 have gone; 92 percent in early retirement. The wrong thing is that officials who can go to the early retirement can earn a lot of money, if they want, but the ASVG-pensionists who go to the early retirement can earn only up to the amount of a minor employment – that is 341 €. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We therefore believe that this displeasure should be abolished. The FPÖ therefore calls for a general abolition of the earnability limit. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] This would probably also do very well for the shortage of skilled workers from the year 2015. I promised you at the beginning of my remarks, there are also some cheerful things in my speech; I do not want to remain guilty to you. I'm allowed to cross for a few minutes, I've heard. Some Curiousities to Official Service Law: According to the Court of Auditors, there are 13 additional fees catalogues containing 600 different benefits. A curiousness about this: In 1964, the typewriters were granted a reduced and additional power allowance because the work on mechanical typewriters was associated with considerable loads of the wrists. The typewriters have long disappeared from the offices – the supplement is still available. Second example: Divers in the Ministry of Interior and Defense can not only receive an underwater allowance, no, also the possibility of a current, shaking, cooling or circulatory diving allowance has been given since 1948. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] How complex the story is, you can only see when you look at the calculation system, because there are 17 categories and valuation standards that influence the amount of payments depending on the depth of the dive, temperature and flow. [[Renewal hustle and bustle.]] So, these are things you just can't believe! And the biggest gag is: There are 402 public servants who have received an elevator maintenance fee of €7.3. That goes back to 1938, and the reason is: A lift must be lubricationd weekly. And then we're going to go on: Hiezu is required by an auxiliary man, who drives through the elevator from end-to-end position by hand. The work of an average of two hours must be carried out outside the service time. – The lifts in the Ministries are no longer curved, but the bonus is still available. 402 public servants received €7.3. The amount of the administrative costs incurred by this compensation of the €1.1 billion per year cannot be determined by the Court of Auditors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] However, the experts estimate that the administrative costs for granting the amount – accounting, audit and cetera – per case amount to around €25. And Austria is wondering why the administrative burden in this public sector is expensive! - I don't wonder. There's a great need for action! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48122	Next, Mrs Mag. Lap. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48143	Madam President. Minister! Mr Grastaur, with this speech you really deserved the weekend. Above all, you kept them on the wrong day. This would have been one of the supreme institutions when we talked about the Court of Auditors. But I think you've made a real effort. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I would now like to come to the social area. I think there are three of the government's most important projects in the Social Ministry: on the one hand, care and care, minimum insurance and then pension insurance; on the other hand, disabled people are also a very big topic. I would like to say to all my colleagues who have regretted Mr Buchinger's regret that Mr Bartenstein's attitude to care for 24 hours of care and care at home: There have been very important aspects. On the one hand, Minister Bartenstein wanted to extend the domestic law and then, as it were, let a lot of people work independently, without quality assurance and without the possibility that you can also be with support organisations. The current draft looks so good that there is a quality assurance that there is a professional standard for the people working in the apartments, namely at the home helper, at the home helper, and that one can not only work independently, but also be employed by support organisations. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 22 €...!]] In my opinion, this is a clear example of social democrats making proper policies and of the lives of people at the heart of our policies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: This is what we should do for ourselves, Mrs Colleague!]] [[Other calls of the Abg. Haidlmayr and the FPÖ.]] As to why we do not valorize the care allowance: The fact that Mrs Haubner has given her every speech on the social field is really very pious. I can remember that when Mr. Minister promised to head from one year to another, he will valorize the care money, and after negotiations with Minister of Finance Grasser, he always came back with the “dark look” and said: Unfortunately, it didn't go out. Our government programme provides for us to make the valorisation in this legislative period. And what is even more important to us: We want to make a general offer. Then: What does it help the elderly people who need care when they have money, but there are no home help, there are no mobile services, there are no nurses, there is no food on wheels? And here the countries are involved to expand these offers so that there are additional offers. Because only in the interplay between family members and mobile services will we be able to make a significant contribution to the field of care and care. And I know that Minister Buchinger is there in very constructive and successful discussions with the countries. One important point: the area of people with disabilities. Mr Minister, I would also like to congratulate you on this. You have succeeded in disseminating additional funds from the Minister for Finance. I think this is very important, because the unemployment rate of disabled people has increased, especially from young people with disabilities, especially from mentally ill disabled people and from those with learning disabilities. That is why it is also important that there are priorities here in the field of employment offensive. The fact that we are doing additional things especially for disabled people in the EU year of equal opportunities, and especially for young, mentally ill and learning disabled people, is an essential priority. It is also important – because politics can only be done if the data and facts are on the table – that there is a study on the situation of disabled people. I think, here too, we show social democrats that we are making a proper policy that focuses on people's lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48217	I haven't noticed the following before: The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Grastaur is sufficiently supported and has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48276	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48297	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Guarantee more fairness and security in the social system. – Mr Federal Minister, all that was announced before the election has not, in principle, occurred to this extent. If that's what you understand under guarantee, then we can do a lot of things. [[Abg. Riepl: It can't do everything in three months! I can't do that!]] You are right, Mr Riepl: You can't do everything in three months. You've seen, above all, that you've taken over a lot. The Federal Minister has said that too. The house has been very well ordered in the Social Ministry. You just need to take over and carry on. Improvements are always necessary, Mr Riepl. That's very important. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] According to the information provided by the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, "gifts" of the pension reform have been withdrawn. I have to say: “Hackler rule” means whether or not one of these terms is pleasing – it is about long-term insured persons who have been busy in their lives and who have achieved long contribution periods. And for those in our responsibility – Jacky Maier knows that – we have made sure that they can go into retirement in the past even at a transitional stage. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This “hackler rule” is practically only starting in 2017, and the deposits catch with 1. January 2008, to a certain extent. Now you want practically an extension until 2010. I don't have anything to do with that. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to agree to this, but I would of course also like to know when you pay your guarantee: What happens after 2010? Because it's very interesting: 45 years of contributions for men, 40 years of contributions for women – this is just up to the year 1952. And the year 1952 is the year that marked the 9th. The school year had to be completed. These are those who then reach not 45 years of contribution at 60, but only with 60,5. Then that's not going to work out anymore. What happens then in the next few years? I'd be very interested. A pension insurance commission has been set up in our time, which meets every two years and, of course, examines the sustainability of our system: What is life expectancy like? What is demographic development like? What is Austria's value added? Of course, we need to work something out in the economy so that we have something to spend. In the past, all debts have been incurred, and we have to react. We have responded responsibly so that this system will also be preserved for the future generations. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Anyone who knows about Austrian pension law knows what is happening to us. If there are fewer boys and more older ones and life expectancy increases, then there are three screws on which you can turn. These three screws, which I remember from a predecessor of you, by the Federal Minister Hesoun at the time. He said to me once, when I was a young Member: Mr deputies, you know what this is like in the social system. There are three screws: Either you work longer, you pay higher contributions or you have lower pensions. – And a certain mix of it has been made easy. And you will not come around to sit down with the Pension Insurance Commission and to advise on how to do so in the future. Mr. Federal Minister, of course it must not be that you only burden the boys. Because that's what I have to say: If you want to increase pensions in a moderate way, you go to bed early and the life expectancy increases, then you have to tell the boys that they have to pay higher contributions. Or you're doing this out of tax revenue. You have already announced today that you want to collect the property tax for it. Could be. - Okay. That's what I'm talking about. I didn't actually hear much about the corridor board, except that the fees should be halved. – I agree, too, no question. In fact, we have always been in favour of developing the fact that, when you are 62 years old, you are retired with less references. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] Only the coalition partner just didn't want it, and there you have your handicap. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Mr Colleague, on the heavy-worker scheme: Where's Mrs. Csörgits? - There she is. Mrs. Colleague! You've always said that's a Murks law. [[Abg. Keck: Mr Dolinschek!]] This has remained the same as we have introduced. – Not a dash has been changed! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There are now 180 applications for my knowledge. The first Steirer had a joy of murder when he was able to retire as a result of the heavy worker regulation, because it is not so easy for those people who, due to seasonally, do not bring the contribution times together to be able to retire earlier – with fewer discounts. That's very important. I am glad that this has been maintained, but you should say that too. Mr. Federal Minister, now to the people who don't have it so easy in life – to the people with disabilities. You said there was an improvement. I also noticed this improvement: you compensate for the ATF funds, because less ESF funds are available. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: Budget resources!]] – I didn’t find much from budget resources! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger takes his glasses off, points to them and keeps them Abg. Dolnschek.]] The Federal Government's employment plan by the disability billions remains the same, but one should already see that there is something for these people. They also have a right to their own income, training and employment, because this simply raises the standard of living, the feeling of self-esteem, and then they also have social security. – This is very important for these people. In the case of undeclared work and the regulation to register employees at social security before the start of work: I thank you for that. For this we have fought forever, for that we have committed ourselves. [[Abg. Riepl: You see, he's got something, the Minister! You've been fighting, and we're going through it!]] ==References== A pilot project was set up by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs on 1 December. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It's proved to be good. Now that's being put into law. I am very pleased that people have to be registered before they start work, so that they can do something about blackwork. I also find that the general entrepreneurs of subcontractors are liable under social security law excellent. I've always fought for that. These are things I just like. [[Abg. Riepl: We will enforce it again!]] I have not only criticism of these areas, but also praise when we implement what we have repeatedly called for. [[Abg. Riepl: Thank God!]] For us, it just didn't go out in time, but that's the way it's going to be. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Keck.]] Federal Minister! Minimum security 726 €: everything okay, but the difference to the minimum wage is sad! Mrs Csörgits, you are five years too late for a minimum wage of 1 000 €! 1 300 € gross are necessary because 1 000 € gross is called 850 € net. [[Abg. Csörgits: (significant towards ÖVP) Discuss this with them!]] – The difference is too low! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Please, I don't understand!]] Give yourself a shot! The wages you negotiate in the union, but you just have to raise that. The economy also enjoys it because the purchasing power is increasing. If people earn more, they spend more. That's the way it is. - That's how you should work. Now we come to the area of care: Care must, of course, be manageable for all. That's where we all agree. Now, of course, there is a difference between care and care. - That's a big difference. The number of care providers in Austria is increasing steadily. Over the last six years, it has grown by 60,000. There are about 326,000 federal care benefits and about 60 000 national care benefits. Six years ago, it was 60,000 less. So the number is increasing rapidly. Of course, that's a lot of what you have to take in your hand; it's not that easy, I know. But you're not the Minister of Finance: As a Minister of Social Affairs, you have to ask for this. In the care, the question arises: What are you doing? What is care? What is care? This house care law, which is not at all the right expression, allows caregivers themselves to work in the household – an important step. I think that's very positive. It is true that the aid organizations obviously have no joy because they fear that they will be competitive and that people will hire care staff themselves because the aid organizations are too expensive because they have a too large administrative unit. You just have to think about what that is. I do not actually see this danger – as the Caritas criticised it – that no one can afford the 24-hour care at home, which is then legally possible. I mean, you can afford it if people do it themselves. On the other hand, care providers may employ these assistants from the third stage of care. - I think that's okay. [[Abg. Cheers: Thank you!]] From the first stage of care, de menzkranke also. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: You can support the great coalition!]] You should consider whether you are taking in the disabled, who are valued, – from the first level of care. There's a lot to think about. In the Social Insurance Change Act 2007, I would like to take out the caring relatives for whom we have done a lot in the past. You know the studies: 80 to 85 percent of the caregivers are cared for at home. In turn, 80 percent of the caregivers are female. There's a lot to it for women. What do we do in the future? The Federal Government should take over both the service provider and the employee contribution from the level 3 of care. This must be considered once because there are a lot of people in the area from 55 onwards. There are years of age who are in the final phase of their working life in front of the pension, and those to be cared for are usually less than 80. We should consider the possibility of taking over these contributions, in the care of dementia patients, of course, from the level of care 1, and also of changing the funding in this area. [[Abg. Oillinger: No one goes into retirement with 55, except a politician!]] There's a lot to consider, Minister of State. I know you're listening well now and you're trying to do something. Getting My Support If you do so, you have no question. I left out consumer protection. Of course I have to say something to do with this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] - We still have enough time. Consumer protection, of course, is a cross-sectional matter and, of course, it is becoming increasingly important in the globalized world in which we are now located. I am pleased that you are now setting up this proposal from the Consumer Protection Study, which we commissioned in 2005, to this consumer policy forum. That's great! The first meeting will take place in June. The fact that you have consumer protection policy on three pillars You probably took over from our three-pillar model at the pension. I think that's all right. These three pillars of consumer rights, enforcement and consumer education are three important factors. The Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, as it is now called, together with the Consumer Information Association, is an important instrument. On the basis of the contract, the Consumer Information Association deals with these model processes and collective actions, which we have all done in recent times, and citizens will practically be helped to enforce the law, because the individual is often unable to fight these cases in this way. At the time, we have successfully fought the savings bank interest rates. – They continue to do it now; that was good. We have also had a great success with the hotline “How safe is your money” because people are very sensitive there. But now to the VKI: Since 1992, the VKI has been entrusted with the management of model processes and associational actions on the basis of practical instructions or on the consent of the competent Federal Minister. The funding of this consumer information association was originally marked by the fact that the same financing of the social partners – that is, the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture – were almost doubled by the federal government. This condition was still stable at the end of the 1980s, then gradually increased the contribution of the Federal Chamber of Labour and the Chamber of Commerce, the contribution of the Chamber of Agriculture has gradually fallen and, as it were, almost disappeared, and it is now striking that the Federal Chamber of Labour for 2007 is now paying €600 000 against the forecast €407,000, thus offsetting, as it were, the loss of the contribution of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which is practically pleading and has no more money. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true!]] In 2005, €131,000 were paid by the Trade Union Confederation. In Comparison of the situation is as follows. . Mr Rädler asked what the situation in this area looks like, and I can say that exactly: The Federal Government pays €1.7 million in 2007, the Federal Chamber of Labour € 600 000, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce of Austria € 271 000, the Austrian Trade Union Confederation € 1,000 and the Chamber of Agriculture € 10 000. So that's where I have to say: What do the social partners actually do in the association, except that they often try to prevent anything by taking self-interest into account? That is why I believe that, because of its share of no less than 66 to 70 percent, the federal government should have a greater right of participation, and the other should have a lower right and that the whole should be put on new feet, Minister of State. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, I am also pleased that you now want to install consumer education as an educational subject. They want to have talks with the Minister of Education. That's where I'm full of your line, because in the schools we've conducted the Young Consumers Award in the past. That was a great success, I have to say. Keep going! In schools, education is extremely important that young people are not indebted too early. Studies, market observations and the effects of legal regulations are also very important in this area, and I am also pleased that this report on the situation of consumers from 1992 to 2000. He was, in fact, a collection of all charges. That's all there was, there was always the same in there. They wanted to redesign and expand it. - That's what happens now, and I'm glad. This is very important in this area. [[Demonstrative applause and end-noise at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You haven't talked about the Home Delivery Act yet!]] - A final sentence. Finally, a brief suggestion in the field of food law, Mr. Federal Minister! For food there is packaging data and consumption data everywhere – only not with fruit and vegetables. Be committed to the fact that packaging data and expiry date are also marked on the packaging in the fruit and vegetables, as well as in the meat and other foods. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48641	Mr Dolinschek, while you have properly tabled your motion for a resolution, he is unfortunately not sufficiently supported. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] He's not signed, but it's easy to regulate business rules by asking you now: Whoever gives support to this request, may rise from its seat. – This gives sufficient support, and the request is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48853	Mr Buchinger, the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke again. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e48874	Thank you very much, Madam President. High house! Mr Dolinschek has constantly overlooked the fact that his own clubman has shown him the sign for a few minutes, but I think he has done well that he has overlooked it. That was a very noisy speech, and I am now resisting the temptation to respond immediately to it. I may prefer the other, serious contributions. Mrs Haidlmayr, who is now, I believe, not here – Mr Oellinger, perhaps you can do it – has criticised the fact that, from her point of view, the requests made by the Minister for Social Affairs have failed to meet her quality requirements. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] She can also take part in this, the highly valued Member of Parliament, by asking questions that affect the responsibilities of the Minister for Social Affairs. If, for example, she asks about the exclusion from the labour market service: With all due respect, that's not my place. This is Bartenstein. Or if she asks about the classification of children and young people: This is mainly about the classification practices in the national laws. She just quoted the last sentence of my answer. Previously, I wrote that a working group – because it concerns countries – is working on a problem analysis and solution. Under the Home Care Act, the responsibility lies also with the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour. I have negotiated it with him politically and can also provide you with more information, but the Minister of Labour is of course empowered to do so. I think, however, that Mrs Haidlmayr, and also the other colleagues who have argued with concerns and fears regarding the housekeeping law, is too demonizing this law. This housekeeping law is essentially the most extensive and complete implementation of the Government Convention, the scoretion in the Council of Ministers' presentation of March of this year has been a little supplemented – to us essential issues of quality assurance and promotion with the focus on self-employment. Mr Rädler asked me about the concrete response to the list of funding in the VKI area. The answer to the question was given by me on 26 February. It was handed over to the Bureau of the National Council on 4 April. So, Mr. Rädler, you have to have it, or it should be on your way. But I'd like to read it to you: Of the costs of € 1 million, the sum for the VKI-Klags-Work Treaty, where we finance that the VKI in our order brings the complaints, € 516 000. That's the biggest amount. The rest are detailed amounts. In the case of grants, the previous written reply to questions 619/J and 620/J by Mrs Haubner is referred to. - You have to do this today. To the VKI, Mr Dolinschek has made the proposal, if I have correctly understood that the Ministry of Consumer Protection should have a stronger right of participation there. This is very worrying at EU-political level because, as you know from your work as State Secretary, the independence of consumer protection institutions is highly important at EU level and not government organisations, but non-governmental organisations are in demand here. [[Abg. Dolinschek: If you don't pay anything, don't say anything!]] With regard to the individual resources of the representatives of interest and the Ministry of Social Affairs, you mentioned the figures correctly. However, they should also complement the completeness of the fact that more than 70 percent of VKI’s expenditure is earned through own revenue, making up only the remaining 28 percent of the total amount of funding from the Ministry of Consumer Protection, but also the contributions from the members. Mr Grastaur asks me what the families who have previously engaged illegally ask me after the entry into force of the housekeeping law – probably, and we all support it, to 1. July 2007 – make it. – They will register for social security if they employ the foreign workers concerned as employees. If they employ them as self-employed, that is not necessary. Mrs Lapp rightly pointed out the additional offers for people with disabilities which Mr Dolinschek did not find in the budget chapter. Maybe my glasses are sharper than yours, colleague Dolinschek. You will find it – I tell you exactly – in the estimate approach 1/15456. If you're so kind and you're noticing. You will find that the Federal Estimate 2006 amounted to just over €70 million, but the Federal Estimate 2007 amounted to €78 million. This is a plus of 10.5 percent in this estimate approach. This is the political will that people with disabilities should also benefit adequately from the recovery on the labour market, because regrettably in the last year of your government responsibility, the unemployment of people with disabilities – not very much, but yet – has increased by 1.8 percent, while the unemployment of people with no impairment has gladly fallen by 6 percent. Additional effort is needed. This will also involve additional resources in my political responsibility. And now, Mr Dolinschek, allow some answers to your questions: The first question was that people – and you too – are interested in what happens with the long-term insurance scheme after 2010. I can tell you: What interested people much more, because it was much more important and urgent, is what follows the 31st century. On December 31, 2007, your arrangement is 31st. ==References== Our responsibility was – and in negotiations with the government partner – to ensure the extension of the long-term insured scheme for the entire duration of the legislative period of the Gusenbauer I cabinet. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You have said, Mr Dolinschek, that you very much agree that these penalties have been halved in the corridor board from 4.2 percent to 2.1 percent. Mr Dolinschek! They would have had the opportunity to do so in the years 2003 to 2006. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Seven years!]] In this question, you have not enforced – you refer to colleagues from the ÖVP. We, Mr President, have been put to the vote. – Let’s enjoy it together! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] Mr Dolinschek, you have still said, from the Minister Hesoun, whom I very much appreciated, that there are three screws on which you can turn to make the pension system safe. However, Mr Hesoun has always spoken of four screws. They have – probably not without reason – forgotten the fourth, because the fourth screw is the most important, the very big one: Full employment and good wages in high employment. – This is the most essential means, the most important screw! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Dolinschek, in the government you have heard, unfortunately, this essential screw was not turned up, but down, because on the one hand unemployment has increased, on the other hand wages have decreased. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Oh yes!]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: The best economic data!]] We are now turning on all screws in full employment, so that full employment is really achieved – common goal with the government partner by 2010 – and we also see that there are not only more but also better jobs. I would like to confirm a great deal of what Mr Dolinschek said about consumer protection. It is indeed true that I can take on initiatives in many areas that have already been set up. [[Abg. Neugebauer: You can build it very well!]] Of course, the initiatives are getting a little more intense, a little further and perhaps also more politically coordinated, for example at the Consumer Policy Forum, which will meet before the summer – on 4 May. June. The representatives of the Consumer Protection Committee will also be invited by my ministry. At EU level, it is about active networking and coordination in the further development of EU consumer law. I support all the projects, have already made demarches with my officials in Brussels and will do so in the coming weeks, for example in the Green Paper on the Review of the Acquis Commission in the field of Consumer Protection, which is currently being discussed at interministerial level in Austria. At the beginning of May, the Ministry of Justice will coordinate the Austrian position in agreement with my ministry and will bring it at European level. Another important step in the negotiations in Brussels is the Consumer Credit Directive, and I am confident that an agreement can also be reached under the German Presidency at the next Competition Council. Such a directive would make a huge contribution to the harmonisation of consumer credit rights. The central pillars have already been mentioned; I support them. Although the Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection can show up here in the first place and can only regulate it directly in two areas, the colleagues of my home have tried their lobbying for years, and we are improving cooperation with the other ministries: With the Ministry of Justice, we are working very closely on a rapid innovation of the ZPO, with the BWA and the BMF we are discussing the UWG-Novelle and the regulation of foreign currency credits. I have already been able to address the intentions and demands of the Minister for Consumer Protection several times. Finally, in the area, I will also insist that measures to combat Internet crime will not be pushed to the long-term, but, as far as is possible, can also be incorporated into the currently sought-after UWG-novelle. The need for action we have in the field of indebtedness, I was able to carry out yesterday at Wilhelminenberg talks and in the press conference in detail. Here too, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, a number of proposals are under discussion, such as the reduction of the minimum rate in the levy procedure or the extension of the reasons for the fairness. To legislate, it is important to continue to force the position of the VKI, and a number of campaigns are under way in consumer education. There will also be a symposia with the BMUKK at the end of June to better match this. As in the years 1992 to 2000, we also plan to draw up the report on the situation of consumers. I have already been able to report on this and would be pleased if the House and, in particular, the Consumer Protection Committee could support me in these projects with an official request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49039	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49060	Mr President. High house! First of all, I would like to thank the President that she has responded very flexibly to the request made by Mr Dolinschek and Mrs Haubner concerning independence for the Consumer Information Association and has had it vote on whether he is in favour of it. I would just like to say for the record that this request, supported by five signatures, has been submitted to your Bureau by the deputy club director of our club. I myself have also signed the request. Since the application and the submission of the request was entirely correct from our side, I would like to ask for a follow-up examination of how, for incomprehensible reasons, the request to the Bureau has obviously disappeared somewhere. But we brought him in correctly – this for the protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49094	I'm going to be happy to do this, Mr. Klubobmann. The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49118	Mr President. Minister! High house! Unfortunately, Mr Ollinger is not here, but the Green Members will do so. [[Abg. Olympians: (from the ranks of the ÖVP) Here I am!]] - Excuse me, I missed you. Of course, Mr Oellinger, the ÖVP is for a remodeling of this year's hall, but we are also in favour of remodeling in accordance with the requirements given here, quite rightly and representative – yes, of course – but if it is said that this conversion is to cost €70 million – i.e. a billion schilling – then, I can tell you that this will not find the approval of the ÖVP. We cannot and will not support taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to express my pleasure at the fact that there is a Consumer Protection Committee during this legislative period, and I am convinced that with our speaker Johann Rädler and also Chairman Jacky Maier and all the other members of the Consumer Protection Committee, we will be moving a lot that will also bring the consumer safety into their lives. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to contribute specifically to the debate on food safety and to the establishment and further development of the Agency for Health and Food Safety (AGES) in particular. Yes, it is right and important that this important institution is also developed accordingly, because it conducts thousands of investigations in the sense of consumers in the year. I would like to say, however, that we are talking about controls: Are we actually aware of the increase in the density of controls in this country? For example, do you know how many controls must be carried out in a small butcher or butchery when processing a piece of live cattle? First there is an internal quality management; then the animal identification is checked by an employee; then there is a veterinary life review; then there is a classification service, which also performs a pH-value measurement; after the killing comes the death review; then, of course, the mandatory and also important BSE tests; then, in the carcass a bacterial examination; then there comes the residue control; then the post controls, these are beef labelling systems, the AMA seal must of course also be checked; after that, the slaughter premium control; if it was now a bio-animal, the bio-control comes. In Vorarlberg, we have an excellent Landle Marketing, and we also need to check if everything has been done accordingly. Afterwards, food control comes, the product declaration says, and in addition to all of that, there are still labour law controls, documentation management, traceability, filling out data collection records of Statistics Austria and so on, and so on. Ladies and gentlemen! We all believe that controls are important. In particular, we too stand by agriculture on these controls to ensure that our products are truly comprehensible and safe for consumers and consumers. Of course! But it would be, I think, quite appropriate for us to check once and see if there are double-tracks, whether, in the sense of sparingness, some control can be done from one place or another and something can be saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49182	The next speaker is Mrs Hradecsni. You've done 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49203	Mr President. The Federal Minister is already gone – ah, he's chatting right now. [[Abg. Parnigoni: (on Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger swissen, next to Abg. Is there! Sit in the first row!]] Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Much has already been said about consumer protection. Many questions I had have already been answered. But what has not yet been mentioned by my previous speakers in any way is the following: In 2007/2008, there will be sensitive cuts in consumer protection, but there are delicate cuts in consumer protection, which I can prove to be – this amounts to about € 1 million. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I don't think so!]] Since we know that this funding of the information measures mentioned above and so on is very cost-intensive, I hope that they will still be guaranteed. However, I would like to say positively that in this future budget the funding, i.e. the payments to the CCI mentioned above, but also to the ARGE debtor advice and to other consumer institutions, may experience an extremely small but nevertheless an increase. This, I think, is a very important sign because, as already mentioned, these institutions do very important work in the field of consumer protection and consumer safety. What does not seem unimportant to me to mention is that the CCI generates at least 70 percent of its revenue itself. This is something that has so far been unmentioned, and I don't think that is so insignificant. I too have attended this highly qualified and very interesting meeting on private debt yesterday, and I am very pleased that I have now been able to make your comments – and have already been able to read in the newspapers today – that you, Federal Minister Buchinger, are planning, together with your colleague, Minister of Justice, Berger, to facilitate access to the private bankruptcy in order to improve the increasingly dramatic situation of over-indebted households. It is particularly important to me to allow socially weak people the possibility of debt. This is a very essential point, which we consider to be extremely useful and very welcome. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It also shows, at the same time – I have heard – how important prevention measures are in the field of consumer education, prevention measures that should start already in schools through targeted and age-appropriate information campaigns, publications and lectures. Of course, the optimity would be, as you mentioned, if it were really the subject of the teaching – this is also an old demand of the Chamber of Workers – consumer education. What's also very important to me is: This argument – I think Mr Rädler has already mentioned this today – I agree with Mr Rädler that consumer protection is a cross-sectional matter. But I only agree with that insofar as everything is more or less a cross-sectional matter. Nevertheless, there are very explicitly defined tasks of consumer protection, which should also be reflected in budgeting. The Consumer Protection Committee was finally set up during this legislative period. That too was a very important step that we welcomed very much. This was also mentioned by Mr Maier in the general debate that there are increases in the area of the AGES; although this is gratifying, I am not comforted, as I have said, by these cuts in the Federal proposal for consumer protection. One of our most important demands from the Greens' point of view: The Consumer Information Act would require more substance and legal means for efficiency in order to improve the information imbalance between businesses and consumers. In this context, I would also like to address my concerns in the context of consumer protection policy in the context of the proposed administrative cost reform. The objective of this initiative is, of course, to reduce the costs incurred by companies through information obligations, i.e. to reduce them by 25 percent. The administrative costs incurred by companies by fulfilling legal information obligations are now to be incurred on the basis of the standard cost model. And in this standard cost model, however, according to the Court of Auditors' criticism, there is no evaluation of the benefits of the legal information obligations. It is to be feared that companies are lobbying against legal regulations which are of general interest in the context of consumer protection. I would also like to mention this, and you have already mentioned that, from our point of view, it would be extremely important that, especially in the area of unscrupulous Internet services and Internet crime, the standardisation of a profit-sharing process in the coming UWG-Novelle is already sought, in the case of example, of § 111 TKG. In conclusion, I would like to say that consumer protection urgently needs improved framework conditions. In fact, it would have been necessary for the funds to be increased instead of being cut short. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to mention very briefly: I am very pleased that the ÖVP is so interested in Corporate Social Responsibility and wants to take action in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49279	The next speaker is Mr Keck. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49300	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kickl said in his speech that it is adventurous what is happening in the social field. Mr Haubner and Mr Dolinschek have criticized everything there is to be criticised. . I really want to ask these three Members whether they know what is adventurous and what is critical. I would like to explain it to them because I think the long-term memory has failed them. Over the past seven years, a lot has happened among blue and orange social ministers in the social field, ladies and gentlemen. But it is sad that this was only to the detriment of the people, what happened among these Social Ministers and Social Ministers. It was dismantled, it was abolished, it was reduced. What is left is a population in which the poor have become poorer and poorer, in which many at risk of poverty have finally fallen below the poverty threshold by the measures of these Social Ministers. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I can only say that it is an urgent task of the new government under SPÖ leadership to help exactly these people who have suffered a lot of disadvantages over the past seven years. Our Social Minister Buchinger has already proven in 100 days that he is a well-known expert in his field, has already achieved much in 100 days and will still have a lot to do in the coming days, weeks and months. But what really bothered me most in the last seven years as a worker's representative, ladies and gentlemen, these were the unsocial and unjust laws that were created. If Mr Dolinschek says that the heavy-worker regulation he has praised has been so good - 168 applications, and one of them has been approved - then one must say that is exactly the mistake that has happened in this legislation: A single application has been accepted! We will have to develop this heavy-worker regulation for the hard-working people, so that the hard-working people can really take advantage of this law. I don't want to talk about the hard-working people anymore. It has been made a regulation, the “hackler rule” – and I stick to that name, because it is still in the law – which excludes thousands of people and actually does not prefer all the other, only the real “hacklers”, and that is another flaw of this law that we must eliminate at the earliest, ladies and gentlemen. What does this “hackler rule” look like today? You need 45 years of contribution and reaching the 60. Year of life in order to be able to retire free of charge. But, ladies and gentlemen, those who have had a serious accident, whether work or leisure accidents, in which one loses, for example, an arm or a leg, who suffers from a cancer or chronic illness, are punished at age, because sick leave periods that go beyond the duration of the payment are not contribution times and cannot be counted for this “hackler rule”. – And we need to change this as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen! With a low budget, with about €20 million, and the recognition of sick leave in upright service conditions as contribution periods, we could quickly improve and help these people to also fall under this “hackler rule”. Ladies and gentlemen! The budget is a real step in the right direction, because despite difficult political constellations, we have managed to introduce the social change in Austria! [[Abg. Scheibner: Why is this a difficult political constellation?]] And with a little more courage and a little more will, we can achieve much more, namely through a just and for the real “hackler” acceptable “hackler rule”. This is my appeal to you, ladies and gentlemen, but in particular to our coalition partner – and especially to colleagues Amon and colleagues Neugebauer –: Let's do it! Let us also create fairness, justice and social warmth for the workers!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49359	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49380	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister – if he's still here in the hall; he's, I think, just outside! Ladies and gentlemen, Our social spokesperson, Herbert Kickl, has already, in argumentative terms, already washed the cut-back hair, and that was really interesting to observe. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What did he wash?]] And one has really noticed with what argumentative distortions and confusion Mr Sozialminister has tried to argue that this budget is still somehow a social one. I understand: There you make an incredible election campaign, you “press on”, you promise the social turn, under the motto “All things are getting better! ” And then this accident happens for the SPÖ: [[Abg. Parnigoni: I did!]] You really become the strongest party, you go with the motivation to Vienna, you want to change something – and the first that happens in Vienna: [[Abg. Parnigoni: The SPÖ has been well equipped!]] One is sent to the hair-cut, and the second, that happens: The ÖVP's party programme as a government agreement is being examined. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now I come to the ÖVP – it must not be forgotten; I have remembered colleagues Amon, who in his remarks on the social chapter has strengthened the Christian doctrine of salvation: [[Abg. Amon: I didn't say the doctrine of salvation!]] So somehow, I think you got something wrong. Because if I use the principle of giving instead of taking, it is not that you take the money out of your hands and shift it towards multinational corporations and toward super-richs, but rather vice versa: that you pursue a social policy where the poorest of the poor in the country find their way out again and we do not stumble from a record poverty to the next. [[Abg. Parnigoni: "Putting money out of the bag" is an order call!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let me say something about consumer protection policy here in the wake of the social debate, in which much more or less has already been done: I think it is good in principle that there is a committee for this question, I also think it is good that there is a budget, although a very, very small one: It's a drop on the hot stone, but bigger than it was in recent times. The Committee is a very good instrument. The Committee has an officer who really deals with the matter in a party independence, which is perhaps the wrong concept, but with a lot of elan and motivation, which also allows hot iron to be handled. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Bravo, Jacky!]] . I do not know if I am now doing something that harms the chairman of the Consumer Protection Committee in your ranks, but I have the impression that this is really going in a good direction. [[Abg. Parnigoni: No, no, not at all!]] Especially in the field of consumer protection is one of the major challenges of our political future. It is a cross-sectional matter, quite clear: The Consumer Protection Committee can essentially decide what it wants – if it is not implemented in further consequence by the relevant sites, it is also ‘for fish’. It will be up to us to convince the chairman of the Consumer Protection Committee, the Minister for Social and Consumer Protection. If this succeeds, it is good – but that does not mean that something is happening for a long time because the SPÖ also has to convince the government partner. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We always do!]] And there are many examples that I do not wish to give you again in detail that this is rather a weak matter. We have a lot to do in the field of consumer protection in relation to the digital world; internationalising markets. It is even worse in the virtual area, where markets arise at once, where questions of guarantee, liability, guarantee are completely unexplained in many areas. No question: On the one hand, there are enormous advantages from this digitization of the market, on the other hand, there are enormous disadvantages, where one must pay particular attention to protecting local consumers accordingly. It should not be forgotten, however, that in the consumer protection sector there is still much here in Austria: What I have been aware of for years is the question of the currency date of payments, which either take place or go out. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's right!]] If you transfer something today and the balance of accounts decrease, it is so that the money is away from the account at the same second, that currency is also gone. On the other hand, when money comes to the account, it takes three, four, five days until the bank finally makes it convenient to recognize it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's what we're changing now! That's coming! That's what we do!]] – And this would be a nice field of activity, Mr. Consumer Protection Minister, to take this matter seriously into consideration once. You're doing it? - I'll take you by the word! Next year, I'll remind you if it's still not done. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Can you!]] One area that is also very important to me, because I am not only consumer protection, but also transport spokespersons, is the car question. There is a request from me in the Consumer Protection Committee for a debate, which calls for a recall commission for the motor vehicle sector, because recall actions have been exploited in such a way. Companies misuse recall actions very specifically to lure customers into the workshop in a kind of workshop action, to put their eyes on them, and actually want to sell them as a side effect only repairs – or to try to abuse the customers, the consumers as test pilots for vehicles that are not yet matured. The establishment of such a Commission would be good, would be important, and, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, ÖAMTC supports it. I hope you do not deny this support here either. A small point to the SPÖ: It is still a second request from me to deal with the driving school monopoly, which we de facto have in Austria and which has led to an explosion-like increase in training costs, slowly, gently and slowly to break up the train so that the training costs for the driving licence train can be reduced again. I told you two days ago, I tell you again today: ARBÖ, this is your driver's organisation, and President Hofer expressly supports this request, and I hope that you do not deny your support in the Transport Committee and as a accompanying measure in the Consumer Protection Committee. In any event, I am pleased to be able to make a small contribution in this Consumer Protection Committee, and I will also make it in the best faith in the interests of domestic consumers. It is a thing that makes joy because it touches incredibly many topics and one can really achieve something good and great for the local consumer. I am not quite satisfied with the small budget that is available for this. I would like it to be increased in further consequence by train in order to be able to do really good, especially in the field of education for domestic consumers in an international market. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49567	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49588	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, figures and data are the A and O with a budget, but behind these figures there is something more important, namely the work on further improvement in the social field and for even more social security for Austrians – starting with a minimum wage to care and care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to make a very specific point, Mr Federal Minister, on the subject of visiting and visiting cafes. Unfortunately, the ÖVP failed to transfer the men's department with the visit to the Ministry of Family Affairs. You have these agendas with you, and I ask you to continue to finance the visitation support, which is very, very important, especially since children often stay on the track when they divorce. I thank you now for ensuring €600 000 a year, and I ask you to never want to remove this promotion or this subsidy from the FLAF; you already had the approach. I think that should remain in the regular budget, and if that is the case, I would be very grateful to you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Federal Minister! Now on another point: A double budget was also debated in the Styrian Landtag and decided only: In the discussion culture there was a home-high difference: Here in the house we have discussed and negotiated quite positively, but Mr Voves speaks of Deppen and means the Members who sit in front of him. – Read more in the “Small Newspaper” today. [[Abg. Amon: To whom does he say “deep ”?]] To the Members, also to his, also to the socialist, not only to the black ones! In addition, Mr. Landeshuppmann Voves speaks of a Quatschbude. He speaks of the Styrian Landtag as a Quatschbude and thus also means the socialists, not only the ÖVPler. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Do you know what that is? A never-increasing of the language! I believe that Franz Voves' shoes are clearly too big for him. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, since you are now the highest ranking in this Chamber, please and I ask you: Talk to Captain Voves! As a social minister, you know that people need to be careful, socially thinking. Tell him that he also deals with the Members who are also people with care and character! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But we are not here in the Styrian Landtag!]] I call on Mr Voves to make a declaration of honour as to whether his Members and our MEPs are Deppen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49684	Mr Pirklhuber spoke next. Also 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49705	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! A word to Mr Steibl: Mrs Colleagues, it would have been nice if you had made your protest at the time when Minister of Finance also spoke to Parliament as a Quatschbude. But at that time your word went off. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, we are not here in the Styrian Parliament, but in Parliament, and I think we should deal with our issues on the agenda. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There are also delegates who speak of “Saustall Austria” – as you do!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister, you've been in the field of...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49744	One moment, Mr. Cot! Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return the emotions! I call Mr Pirklhuber. – Please continue, colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49768	I realize that the nerves are already white, perhaps with half the head in the weekend. [[Abg. Newborn: This is the next naughtiness!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Greens are all in the weekend!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take up some points on consumer protection once again. Mr Federal Minister, in this matter I must already measure you by what the Chamber of Labour has done as targets for consumer protection in 2006. I take three points out, Minister of State. One was the increase in public funds for consumer protection at a level similar to that in the UK or Germany. The Chamber of Labour therefore calls for a clear increase in consumer protection resources. Second point: more activities in schools and in educational institutions – certainly an important point. And thirdly, the creation of a quality mark of social and environmental responsibility. These are just three points I want to take out now and face up to the following fact – that has already attracted my colleague Hradecsni –: The budget has clearly been reduced: from about €500 000 in 2007, as well as a reduction in 2008. They have not yet given an opinion. I believe that this is a dilemma, if one says full-bodiedly, that we now have the Consumer Protection Committee, which we naturally welcome, which is an opportunity for Parliament and also for the legal discussions and measures, and on the other hand, the funds are not available for implementation. Undoubtedly: The financing of the VKI and also other institutions such as the AG Debtnerberatung is guaranteed, we see that as well. But for further measures, especially in the direction of consumer information law, additional budget resources would, of course, be necessary. And I really want to make a very personal appeal to you to support the proposals made by the Greens. We have already tabled a comprehensive proposal, and we have already received positive feedback from one or other Member of the other political groups and also from you, Mr Minister, in the Consumer Protection Committee. I appeal to you that at least in the one point of consumer protection, namely the information sector, the information sector, we should as far as possible take a lead, for we are also aware that consumer protection as a cross-cutting matter is dependent on other ministries, on cooperation between different institutions. Mr Sieber mentioned earlier the Agency for Health and Food Safety, which is not within the competence of the Consumer Protection Agency. So if you have referred to this, I am of course right to give you the right to harmonise, coordinate the control activity, here there are many things that are worthy of improvement. Federal Minister, stand up for this consumer information law! You would have our support, we are willing to discuss this with you in committee. And one point that is especially dear to me: See enough financial resources for the relevant annual reports! An annual consumer protection report would be very important in order to ensure a sound evaluation, a proper discourse both in the Committee and here in the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49821	From the government bank, Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger. I'll set the clock to the desired one minute. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49843	Mr President. High house! The honourable Member, Pirklhuber, has raised two important questions which I would like to answer directly. It is correct to find a minimum of €496 000 in the budget chapter. You have to take into account that my predecessor – unfortunately no longer in the Halle – has conducted an expensive media campaign of €400 000, which I do not plan for this year. So these – you can see that in a year – are €400 000 saved, and we also have deposits of €455,000. So the level of consumer protection activities, also expressed in the budget, is not reduced. The report on the situation of consumers is provided for in the budget of € 130 000. I would also like to correct Mr Steibl, who said here that Mr. Landeshuptmann Voves had used the term “quatschbude”. – One of the It's an unforgivable expression! However, he has not been used by Mr Landeshuptmann, but by a SPÖ member, who has subsequently apologised for what I am glad about. Unfortunately, a member of the ÖVP has also said – I quote – that: The SPÖ are socialists, but not democrats! – and not apologise for it. I would also expect an excuse for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49894	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49915	Mr President. High house! Thank you too, Mr Buchinger, especially for his last words. Before I come to the subject, allow me to say as new Members here, that I already have the impression that we have been elected by the Austrians to take our differences and different opinions, which we have here, at half an objective level – with all the points and with all the sharpness. I believe that our electorate deserves to be entertained in such a way that we can look into the eye. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would now like to point out that in recent years life expectancy in the European Union has almost doubled. That has many different reasons. One is that we thank God for a long time now have peace here in Europe. The second is that health care has been improved and infant mortality has declined, but also that improvements in working life have been made. The increased life expectancy and the decline in births will lead to some changes in working life. This will lead to a decline in the working-age population; Staff with 45 plus will form the majority within the workforce for the first time; the proportion of younger workers will decline significantly. The population after working life, i.e. 60 and 65 plus, will become the largest age group. In the future, not only companies and staff, but also policy-makers face major challenges. Last day we heard a lot about prevention. And I believe that this is also the point where you have to start so that a life, including a working life, is guaranteed in long health. But it is also essential that the working worlds in which we move are changed in the future. Workers must have the opportunity to work as long as possible – and employers must get the necessary resources and know-how to enable them to do so. Worldwide, Productive Ageing Research is being conducted and best practice models are being developed. However, it is not necessary to look worldwide, but only to Austria, for example, because there is a particularly excellent Austrian initiative under the name “work and age”. The industrial association, the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, the Federal Chamber of Labour and the Austrian Trade Unions' Confederation have developed in good old social and social terms. partner manners, in order to take real account of the demographic changes that are happening to us. There are also some very good examples from Austria on the website www.work andalter.at, and I would like to mention one here, namely the LIFE project in the Voest. They know how the development in the steel industry has been in recent decades: Productions increased, staffing decreased – and the change in staffing for the first time resulted in the Group's 45 plus becoming the largest in this company. The fact that work in steel production is characterised by high physical and mental requirements, but also by a night shift operation, led to a very early retirement. The voestalpine has set itself the goal with the LIFE programme – because it knew exactly that it is about the experience of older workers – to ensure production and quality in the operation. It is also not a question of the fact that our Minister for Social Affairs, Buchinger, has accepted this subject: In his department, he will deal with a project group on this very subject, so that employees can also do great work in the future: with high quality and efficiency, for which we should thank them.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e49998	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50019	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was interesting for me today to see that, especially in the very serious area of social affairs, this was nevertheless a very entertaining afternoon. I do not know whether to thank colleagues for this, but at least this afternoon it has been more fun than the afternoons before. But somehow, it was already interesting that so many of them were presented here in part in the area of social affairs. I would like to point out that the European Commission in Brussels has a further attack on the field of services is one that is quite appropriate in itself in the field of consumer protection. And that's where the Austrian Hoteliers' Association – from my point of view really right – cried out. It is far from good what is coming from Brussels, and it is not about the fact that EU rejection is increasing in large parts of the population in the face of many very bizarre proposals from Brussels. There is no need to wonder that, in Austria, consent to this institution is basically still very modest. What comes to us in part from these high gentlemen and the EU Parliament is really to be questioned. This action, which they are planning and planning again, is, in my view, completely incomprehensible, because, as it was incomprehensible years ago, that the country of origin principle should be used in the proposed Services Directive, it is now planned in Brussels that the provisions of the host's country of origin should apply in the area of consumer protection. Using an example, I'll show you what that means: For example, if a guest from America comes to us and spends his vacation here, he would say according to his home country's cosmopolitan regulations: America, If this regulation is implemented, American law will also apply to us, or it will be measured. On the basis of a small example presented by the Austrian Hotel Association, the following would mean: For example, if in America the slip resistance of tiles has a different standard than with us in Austria and if an American guest slips out with us after showering in the bathroom, then according to this planned change, if it goes through, it would be possible that American consumer protection law would apply to us in Austria! What all this would mean in the last episode, if American law were to apply in Austria, I cannot imagine personally at all. This would really be a massive attack on Austrian gastronomy, hotel industry, even on the entire service area in our country. That is why I have tabled a request based on this initiative by the Austrian Hoteliers' Association. In our request, Mr Minister, we ask the Austrian Federal Government to be introduced in Brussels that this – further – is not implemented, because what it would mean under the rule is probably not possible for us to estimate at the moment. Therefore: We must try, with combined strength, to ward off such absurd and bizarre proposals from the European Union and send them to the realm of fairy tales. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50070	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50092	Mr President. Federal Minister! This social budget is continuing a good path that has been taken in recent years and has been influenced by the ÖVP. However, there are still a few challenges to be overcome. I believe that through the framework legislation of the Home Services Act, in order to finally transfer the care to a legal system, this is a good template that has come into the house through the Council of Ministers. However, I have a bit of a concern, Mr. Federal Minister, at the presentation of the Bundespflegegeldsetz; it has also been mentioned by my predecessor Ursula Haubner that the possibility of a grant is only possible from the point of view of care level 5. I think we should discuss in detail in the committee whether it is not practical to proceed in this form. According to this template, it is only possible to provide a 24-hour service, in contrast to that, in the draft household care law: up to 24 hours – a grant, that is to say, according to your draft, you have to care for 24 hours. I would think that a grant would be justified as early as a 16-hour service, but I do not want to determine exactly now. Overall, we will face major challenges, as I think, when I look at how the classifications are running. I mean that we would actually need care and care-related classifications in the Federal Care Money Act for each individual, and I have calculated how the hourly rates are: You are currently at the highest possible price, from 2,97 € to 8,67 € on the highest level. I think we should also have some money in hand. because in the end this would also be available to the carriers if we paid out more federal care money. In my opinion, the classification as such would have to be carried out by experts, even if I heard a different answer from you in the committee. That's where we could get an initial consultation. In my opinion, we should also note the times reserved for skilled workers in order to make transparency easier for those involved. Finally, I would like to have a federal system for reimbursement of costs, because it is an unequal treatment if there is no reimbursement of costs for care providers, especially for members of Styria, while other federal states have no cost return at all. So that's where I'd prefer a fair system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means, however, that we have to think about a framework legislation at the federal level and an implementing legislation at the national level in order to vote the fines. – Mr Federal Minister, I hope you can talk about these things well!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50155	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50176	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, High house! I was delighted to hear that Mr Oberhauser said here a few minutes ago that life expectancy in the EU has doubled in recent years. Mr Minister, I have missed your call, because this would immediately lead our pension system, our care system ad absurdum. We could forget all of this. But of course she's right, life expectancy increases – about 1.2 years every five years. One reason for this is of course also better medical care and are also the greater possibilities available to us in terms of medicines. But also in the drug sector there is Internet trade, there is product piracy, and that is sometimes no longer funny at all. That is why it is also very good and very important that we have finally received a Consumer Protection Committee, which unfortunately God – we have heard today – has only a very weak budget. But after all, we now have these 3.5 million € available for it. Especially in the area of drugs, we have seen an increasing trade in counterfeit drugs, which is a very serious danger to patients. Many people buy annoyed medications they think are purely plant products, and then it often turns out that they are highly effective. In relation, the opposite is also the case: People who order cardiovascular drugs will then get any placebos. All of this leads to real problems. The area of lifestyle drugs is also a very big problem here. Drugs for weight loss, drugs for smoking and similar are especially frequently ordered medications. There are statistics on this, including statistics published by the Chamber of Labour, which prove that here, exactly, the Lematics is that this is a booming market, which at last belongs to a bar. It is true that 190,000 people died in China in 2004 from drugs produced on the black market. This is a wave that is now slipping into the EU. We're still a little bit ahead of that, but the product piracy, the trade with fake drugs is, unfortunately, increasing massively. This is one part, the preparations for man, and besides that there are of course also products for the animals. If Mr Sieber of the ÖVP has so criticised it today that the carnivores are so strongly controlled, I must stop him: Thank God there are strong controls, sharp controls, because there are black sheep here again and again. Animals are given illegal, black, robbed hormones, antibiotics are administered, substances that end up taking the consumer. And this in turn causes terrible diseases in people, or results in late consequences: There is an increase in allergies, an increase in various metabolic diseases, but of course the patient can no longer respond to various antibiotics. And that's exactly what a bar should be pushed forward. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this sense, we are very glad that we have at least now received the Consumer Protection Committee, although with a slightly leaner budget, which we hope will be increased in the next few years so that it can really work effectively and effectively. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50234	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50255	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Steibl, I would have preferred to discuss problems where they belong, and you would not have taken up much more of the issue of the Styrian Landtag, but rather much more of the issue of social policy, because there is still much to be changed in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But I also have freedom of speech! But you have to be quite upset!]] But I can calm you down, one thing is to say: After the few weeks in which Social Minister Buchinger makes social policy, it can be said that a new era has arrived. [[Abg. Steibl: What happened? - Nothing happened! But that's a good thing anyway!]] Even in the social budget it is clear that the current government – I believe you belong to this government too; if you say nothing has happened, then talk to your own people! – that this government, under Social Minister Buchinger, finally takes on social policy plans again. But what surprised me is that the representatives of the BZÖ are now showing up and saying that in the social field, too little is happening. I must say, former Secretary of State Dolinschek, that it was impossible to happen at the beginning, because Minister Buchinger had to spend the first few weeks trying to do everything you have been baffled and bragging, half way back, and now we are going to work. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Do you know what you're talking about?]] It seems a bit schizophrenic when you make yourself and say the “hackler rule” will only continue until 2010. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You talk about the color like the blind!]] Now, you're criticizing this because we're gonna do away with what you've introduced. Clear You're not the one who's been offering the Social Ministers over the last few years? They were the ones who, despite the most massive protests on our part, have introduced these unfortunate pension reforms, which we now have to pull the poison teeth. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] When you look at the budget – take the time! – then you will also see that no more summaries for unnecessary PR measures will be fried like among you, but that now the money is going exactly to those people who need it. And it's gonna be with the 67 now. ASVG-Novelle comes back to massive improvements in pension law and finally fights the organized black work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What hurts me a little in this context is the fact that Mr Keck has already mentioned: that the negotiations so far have not succeeded in including sick leave in this hackler rule. I believe that this would also be a milestone of the current government, which would cost us only €25 million in budgetary terms by 2010, I say ridiculously. At an annual budget of €70 billion, this would be a shack. I think that we should sit down and discuss it again so that we can change these points to the positive. All those who pursue the policies of our country can clearly see that more positive social aspects have already been put under the heading of Social Minister Buchinger over the 100 days than among the predecessors of the BZÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: You don't know yourself!]] Mr Dolinschek! You don't have to laugh at all. What happened? We have now enforced the halving of the reductions in the corridor board that you, your wife Minister Haubner, have introduced. We have retroactively re-estimated the contribution basis for child training and presence service. Unfortunately, my speaking time is not enough to mention all the projects already decided, such as the increase in the minimum pension. But one thing is quite clear to all Austrians: that under a SPÖ-led government there are new marks and again more social responsibility in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50372	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50393	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr Spindelberger, it is not true that social benefits have not been achieved under the previous government; I would like to mention some of the following: Increased care allowance, construction savings as a care provision, entitlement to the care allowance in disabled children from birth, favored self-insurance for caregivers. We have already made the first approaches to express our appreciation for these people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Furthermore: the family hospice, a very important step – here we have really focused on the needs of the caregivers and the caregivers – the patient delivery law to strengthen patient rights, in order to put just a lot of things here. [[Abg. Dolinschek: You have forgotten the employment offensive for people with disabilities!]] Come on. But I'm putting my focus more on the nursing sector. Excuse me, colleague. Interested persons, caregivers and caregivers, want to be more flexible and want to be more at the heart of these whole organisations, and choice of services must be given for them. Therefore, Is analysis of existing offers is necessary. It is not true that until today care and care have been “sumptuous”, but it has done good work so far. It just needs additions. And we see that important steps are being taken here so that these supplements can take place. Small regional structures are necessary. The assisted areas should be manageable to take into account spatial conditions, growing structures, demographic conditions. It's very important to have information and advice. As I said in my speech yesterday: Maintenance and care also take place where we live. I would just like to say that 30 percent of the caregivers are employed; 50 percent of caregivers leave the profession to stay at home for care. In addition, it must be said that 70 percent of these caring people who care for at home are very physically and psychologically burdened and occur in these very many symptoms, such as lack of sleep, social isolation, overload, family problems and so on, because it is simply a round-the-clock job. And this measure, which we are now putting into place, is intended to reduce this. I would also like to mention here the assessment of the need for care and the classification of the care allowance by the care experts. I have read this article in the “Social Security” but still feel that the information about care needs to come from the care. Again: Federal Minister Bartenstein has now created the labour and industrial framework and allows for legal exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50439	Mrs Rudas is the next speaker. Also 3 minutes of welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50460	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! That I am a 26-year-old talking about pensions may seem a bit tight, but has a very serious background. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Just my generation has been hammered in in recent years, that we can no longer rely on a secure pension, and that belongs... [[Abg. Steibl: This is a total nonsense!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] - A little quieter! It's totally unhealthy to always call in between! We were told that we can no longer rely on a secure pension. In my view, this is one of the worst things that can be done to help people to get out of the social security responsibility as a state. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It has been explained to us that we should be private, without saying how the 20-year-old can afford. In the public debate – unfortunately today – it has always been presented by some parties in such a way that the guaranteed pension is exclusively a question of demographics and that the increase in the share of the older population is then equal to the increase in the pension rate. It was hardly mentioned that the mutual influence between developments in the labour market and the pension rate is very important and that, the more employees there are, the higher the income, the more sustainable the pension system is. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It's just wrong to believe – that's a wrong bill; if you get a little more information about and further education on the economy, you'll also think it's a wrong account – that increasing life expectancy automatically leads to a problem in covering the pension effort. But it was really bad in the discussion that the fact that the concept and the framework conditions of work have simply changed – there are hardly any more people employed throughout, more and more people are more and more unemployed, especially my generation is more and more often in atypical jobs. But, Mr Amon, thank God for a change of course, together with you, a change of course towards trust in the state, trust in a solidarity principle. It is also about solidarity between young and old. Finally, we have a minister who can count, who knows that higher employment, higher purchasing power, more money in circulation and lower unemployment also lead to safe pensions. And with that, Mr Minister, not only do you give my generation confidence, higher security and confidence in the state, but you finally end up with this neoliberalism or at least with the neoliberalism campaign. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] It is time to establish a future, just, secure pension system. Especially when setting priorities for the social budget, you can see the direction: no longer cut, limit and reduce, but expand and improve! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50534	The next speaker is Mr Hoefinger. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50555	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I should like to mention a few points on consumer protection. In the context of consumer protection, it must be said that there are often frauds, disappointments, frauds, financial burdens or health impairments and much more. All of this, of course, is associated with trouble, great effort, for months, and often years of procedures, loads and processes for the individual. It has already been mentioned today, consumer protection is – I call it so – an all-embracing matter. That means that in really all segments there is someone we need to protect. We must not forget one thing: We from politics are constantly striving to buy people to animated consumption. This is why we must also look from policy to ensure that these people: It helps, especially those in this chain, who represent the weakest link, the children, the elderly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, all those who are preoccupied with new territories here, as we heard in the last plenary session, when it came to consumer protection, for example in the new sectors of Internet crime. Ladies and gentlemen! The subject areas have just become more complex, and therefore the efficiency in the background must be improved. Mr. Federal Minister, three major political challenges await us in the near future. First: We need to make it clear to people that consumer protection is also called civil promotion. We must encourage people that when they believe that they have been abandoned, they articulate themselves and do something about it. Secondly, people also need to know where to turn on this question that consumer protection organisations are their partners. This means, however, that we also need to do information to consumers, to network and coordinate consumer protection organisations, and that these institutions are given their financial, legal, legal basis so that they can help quickly and efficiently. I am pleased that we have now established a committee here in the National Council, which will deal with this matter in the near future, that we have secured the budget for the next two years – thank you very much, now we know exactly how it is broken down – in order to be able to reduce first of all the already known, very often occurring cases, but also, second, to reduce the gray area, the dark figures, which often take on hearing heights, in the future. In this sense, I am delighted about it. And I can calm Mr Vilimsky: We too, by the Austrian People's Party, will be very intensive about this, because consumer protection is a common thing on which we will work very intensively in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50622	The next speaker is Mrs Ablinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50644	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In politics we need a disputed, objective dialogue, but we don't need anyone who says that this is a "quatschbude" – that's always wrong! This is wrong if it says to honourable Member Strassberger that this is wrong if a former Finance Minister says it, and that is wrong if it says to Mr Stöhrmann. Just mentioning one and not the other is just as wrong. - To clarify. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] . I think you were not inside, Mr President, when this was clarified. On the occasion of the budget debate, I would like to strengthen you once again, Federal Minister, as regards consumer education, and I would like to refer to a relatively current study of the Chamber of Labour, which deals with the subject of purchasing: Shopping becomes a drug. This study also finds that I find that a third of the Austrians are at risk of this purchase is, in particular, young people, and women, in particular. It is found that every second woman between 14 and 24 years of age is clearly, but at least every tenth woman is very much at risk of purchasing. Purchasing then opens up a debt spiral, and ultimately many of these people end up in private bankruptcy – you have found the problem of private bankruptcy in the last few days in a press conference – and this has a total dramatic consequences. Against this background, I believe that prevention in the sense of basic consumer knowledge is particularly necessary and therefore links consumer education. I think we all support you now when you set up a working group to start negotiations on consumer education as a mandatory school subject, because there are probably a number of information, institutions, advisory institutions for consumers and consumers, but in order to be able to observe these offers, educated consumers need to be able to make responsible consumer decisions. Social justice is a question of education, and so it is also a question of access to this education. Thus, perhaps mandatory consumer education/consumer education in schools is also a more social justice. Our support is yours. We hope that we may already be able to welcome this to schools next year. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50698	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50719	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, one thing that moves me deeply: Please, see me as a elected representative, just like you are! I'm taking the paper: Mr Voves said to a group of students: “There come the young people who don’t know what deeds are sitting in front of them.” Voves continues to say he apologizes to all those who “feel affected”. I would like to say very clearly: After such a statement, the President of the Federal Republic and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany have a need for action! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We can't let that happen – no matter what group we sit in! That's what we're talking about. View of the elected representatives of our Republic. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ablinger.]] - I beg your pardon? Mrs Colleague, please make this all right, we will hear the results or the reports. On the matter: The double budget 2007/2008 is a good budget with many great approaches, as well as in the social chapter. Mr. Federal Minister, you have done a lot of work here, and you can rely on us to accompany you. The topic of social affairs is of course very complex, and one thing is clear: All these social benefits are only possible if the economy is in order, the employment is running, the people have a job that farmers are active, we have an intact economy – that is what is given, and therefore, I think, it is good that we develop in this direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If it's meant that it's been quite different in recent years, I have to say, No, it wasn't different! Tell me a country other than Austria that in the last few days years has increased the social ratio with rising economies from 28.4 to 29.5 percent! This is a great achievement, for which no one needs to apologise at all, but it can be shown! [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] If some corrections are made, we will discuss them very thoroughly and, of course, develop them where necessary. I would recommend to those who want to live the special social openness to read the article by Dr. Frank Schirrmacher, editor of the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”: “Consequences of our society”. Schirrmacher deals very intensively with the burden distribution within generations. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a task that we must deal with. This is a duty that no one can escape. Mr Bundesminister Buchinger, if you are now finding a new opportunity with Minister Bartenstein in the field of care, I would like to say that the previous government has not looked away, has not ordered the subject either. This issue is also not to be attributed to the government alone, there are also national social partners who share the same responsibility here. I am glad to be able to resolve the whole matter as soon as possible. I would like, as far as possible, to be a representative. With new taxes you should be very careful, but if it is, please. I think we will solve the care question only if we also discuss a question of consciousness, namely: Ageing is a great thing. The burden distribution within generations is important, and it is the duty of policy to balance them accordingly in all times, even on difficult issues.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50805	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50826	Mr President. Minister! Mr Donabauer, I do not think much of your speech any more, just: The one who is free from guilt, throw the first stone! - Just so much for it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am now devoting myself to the issue of consumer protection, namely the subject of unfair competition organisers. More often, personally addressed letters are sent to households with the content: You won! – The emotional pressure will then be further increased if it says: Report quickly, otherwise it won't be with the winning of the dream holiday, the dream kitchen or the dream car! Many people, of course, report on such seductive offers – the joy of the super profit, but in most cases, people get into the cost trap. The dream holiday quickly becomes a nightmare through expensive additional obligations. Especially older people are particularly affected because they often cannot read the small print or, often, cannot read it. The devil is known to be in detail, because it is clear: Companies have nothing to give, not at all, if they do not have their own advantage. Not small printed, but almost bold printed, must be identified for consumers in the future. Five people a day with winning messages in their hands and only in the last months nine more organizers with locks of the unfair kind, that is the current status only of the Chamber of Workers Styria. It is important to reduce these figures absolutely. In this direction, the actions of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs are going what I really want to thank Federal Minister Buchinger for. With “For nothing there is nothing!”, the initiative against unfair business practices such as promises, temptations or conscious deception, a sign is given that consumer safety will be invested – by you, Mr. Federal Minister. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He's gone already!]] It's clear: Enlightenment and awareness-raising are very important here, and I am glad that this step is now being taken; also for you, Mr Westenthaler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50878	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50899	Mr President. High house! One thing before: I am particularly concerned about the appreciation of parliamentary democracy. [[Aufgaben bei ÖVP and BZÖ as well as der Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] What is important to me as a senior speaker? – We all have phones, but we can’t handle them as well; this is especially true of older people. A study published today by the Integral Market Research Institute proves: For 72 percent of the elderly, mobile phones are too complicated to operate. What do I want to go out on? – Older people cannot benefit from technical progress as well as younger ones. This is particularly true in the important field of eGovernment, Minister. It is possible to save effortful authorities – wonderful, a great project! – but only if you know yourself on the government network! This is particularly difficult for older people. Electronic channels should become more senior-friendly; we need easier-to-understand texts, easy-to-read information; Accessibility; the citizen card should really be made understandable to everyone. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For older people, the Internet is a window into the big world, into the small world, you can collect information and connect contacts. But three-quarters of the over 60-year-olds can't do that. They are not currently on the Internet – there is a need for action! What do we need? – The Austrian Seniors' Federation has created an entire catalogue: Broadband internet needs to be available and especially manageable. Massive public promotion of PC, Internet training, promotion of new device concepts, such as touchscreens, information campaigns to build confidence in this new world. Minister, we seniors want to go to the Internet – but not as a loser, but as a user! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Broukal.]] I look forward to your commitment, Minister, and to good cooperation!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50972	The next speaker is Mr Voller. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e50996	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The need for parliamentaryism, I assume, will not be discussed in any of the political groups here. That is why I also condemn these statements, but I also condemn Mr Strassberger's statement. This has already happened since the start of the government and the planned improvements to the protection of consumers are already noticeable. This is not only evident by the first installation of a consumer protection committee or the new designation of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. A first important step has been taken in the right direction with the initiative of the Federal Ministry of Labour, the Association for Consumer Information, the European Consumer Protection Centre, the Internet Ombudsman, Safer Internet and ARGE Data within the framework of the worldwide “Fraud Prevention Month” carried out in February and March 2007. We all know them, the promises of profit that can be found in our mailboxes every day, reach us by SMS on the phone, or find ourselves on the screen on the Internet – I am thinking only of the added-value telephone numbers – where a huge profit is often promised, which you only need to pick up, or whether free offers on the Internet, where an invoice is suddenly delivered. Customer cards for which valuable data has been provided can also be associated with unloving surprises for customers. I would like to thank you for this initiative at the beginning of your work as Minister for Social and Consumer Protection. I am pleased to mention also that all mobile operators now also provide the possibility of receiving additional value-added SMS. These fraudulent activities and practices always take place across borders. I therefore believe that international cooperation must be strengthened. Another issue where we are increasingly confronted with problems is the increase in violence and pornographic content in the new media and communication services in the area of youth protection. I would ask you to enter into a dialogue with the countries in this regard, since the protection of young people is a matter of country law. [[Abg. Steibl: You should enter a dialogue with Voves!]] With the increased education work in these areas – I was able to address only two of them due to the short speaking time – as it is now being done by you as Minister of Consumer Protection, a step in the right direction is taken. After seven years of downtime in consumer and consumer protection policy, thanks to God again, social democratic accents will be felt in this area.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51030	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51054	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker of my group, I would like to draw attention to a few points which have now been strongly debated and discussed. One thing I would like to make clear: We are committed to the improvements planned in the social field and also in the government programme. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: After all!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We don't fall out of the crown, even though we say: All right, that's going to be better with these regulations now! But one thing I would like to say, above all, to the 27th-century SPÖ and also to all the others who are represented in this House: The 2003 pension reform and the 2004 harmonisation were important and necessary steps in the sense of our youth! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] The federal contributions would have increased, and at some point this boomerang would have returned exactly to the young people. You can't just put that under the carpet, but you have to say that, and you have to be aware of that for young people. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rudas.]] Mrs Rudas, this is exactly what we need to see as young mandates. We are also committed to young people in this country, for whom we have been elected and for whom we sit here! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Mr. Federal Minister, I'd have a request: With the long-term insurance scheme, you know, we should use the term – between quotation marks – “hackler” within the framework of this 67. Change the novel. It also follows a 68. ASVG-Novelle. We welcome this step that the discount-free pension with 45 years of contribution is still possible. This is an important point in the sense of workers. As a works council, I am also confronted with these pension issues almost daily. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Keck, I would like to say the following: The heavy-worker regulation is an important and good regulation for many professional groups. Just go out here and say: That's all nothing, and that's all nothing!, it's not right. In this context, I would like to mention Mr Haubner, who, in December, with the list of professional groups, really made a fair effort to make the heavy-worker scheme meaningful for many people. That must also be mentioned, and that belongs to that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Minister, when I asked you in committee: Are all those professional groups on this list really affected by this regulation?, you have not answered anything contrary to me – if the service provider confirms the necessary years. That is to say, these rules are to be welcomed. We from the People's Party support this, and I would like to stress this as the last speaker of my group on this point. However, one point is missing in these ASVG novels, Minister, as it is mainly about rural areas – and here it becomes interesting to see how far we can still implement this point: There are many people who used to be active in agriculture or in the hospitality industry and who have not had the opportunity to buy retirement periods because it was not possible to pay here at all. This point should be taken up in the sense of these persons and created a possibility to buy back on favourable terms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That would certainly be in the context of the 68 for example. ASVG-Novelle possible. Finally – my club director told me I have 12 minutes of remaining speaking time, so much I have never had since I was in this house, but I will not take full advantage of it –: My favorite topic, Mr. Federal Minister, is the voluntary social year – you know it from the Committee. I really ask for cooperation here, including at the level of the coalition parties, in the sense of the Austrian youth who would like to claim this voluntary social year. We have a good institution, an association situated in Upper Austria, in Linz, and we need to create a legal framework to allow these young people better conditions so that this voluntary social year can be used, which is important for the promotion of social professions and also for the professional creation of young people in the social field. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I actually have a complete concept. Mr Federal Minister and Mrs Csörgits, I think we will look at it at the parliamentary level, and I really ask you to support this package in the sense of the Austrian youth and we will find a regulation here. I wish everyone a good ride home and a nice weekend!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51152	The next speaker is Mr Ehmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! After quite legitimate emotional debates, I would no longer like to address the last contributions in order not to provide even more ignition, but to devote myself to an important issue, to consumer protection and to product safety. International cooperation in the field of product safety works very well, as has recently been confirmed. I would like to add a current extract from an APA message. I quote: ‘The EU Commission: More and more dangerous toys from China. Almost half of the more than 920 goods in the EU came from China. Germany was the most affected among the EU countries. In this respect, 144 articles had to be withdrawn from the market, which corresponds to about 16 percent of all EU countries." ‘The electric appliances removed from the market were likely to cause electric shocks and were partly non-fire resistant.’ I think of this as a good example: Think of a hair dryer. In Austria, no one really expects that when using a hair dryer, you should expect to burn off your hair or just get an electric shock. You can choose it then. It really can't be. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] We should also pay particular attention to the children's toy and to a revision of the existing rules on the general food and nutritional labelling, such as the requirement that everything should be clearly legible. I don't know how you are, I've been addressed more often in the supermarket by older people who asked me to read one or another on a package. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They probably wanted the broadband internet!]] [[Abg. Is that really what happened to you?]] And believe me, if I had seen it more clearly, I would have done it. Because of this, I say: Our product safety law should be evaluated and, of course, further developed in terms of clarity and efficiency, both in the simplification of existing legislation and in terms of better classification of certain safety requirements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also do not want to mention that our product safety bodies in the countries will have the increased increase in review activities in the future. In my name, I am particularly grateful to the very dedicated employees in the field of product safety, who work in the Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They do excellent work in this area. I would also like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for your commitment in this and not just in this area. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51263	The last speaker on this subject is Mr Steier. Also 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51284	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumer protection, as many of my previous speakers have emphasized, is a cross-sectional task that affects all areas of policy and life. We all know that consumers have an increased interest in information before they decide to choose a particular product. Therefore, I can only postulate: If the selection is based not only on the price and advertising, but on the quality, environmental kindness or even sustainability of a product, then information can be a real competitive advantage for everyone – and we should agree on it – for consumers, the economy, but also for the environment. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The willingness of consumers to contribute with conscious purchasing decisions to a gentle handling of our natural resources, but also to health and social standards, showed high growth rates in the field of eco-food or fairly produced clothing. We only need to show it, and the Consumers' Committee and the Consumers' Committee is here to do so. Ladies and gentlemen! The idea of “resource protection through the creation of consciousness” is also based on my application for “stand-by-losses”, which has been in the House since the beginning of March. In view of increasing energy costs, the use of energy savings for consumers is one very important option, which can help to slow down the financial burden. It makes sense to save energy – not only for the climate, but also for your own wallet. Since equipment in stand-by mode consumes unnecessary energy, we suggest that from the end of 2007 there should be a power label for all devices – from the computer started via DVD player, the coffee machine up to the electric citrus press. The label should be traded so that the power consumption in operation and stand-by mode is already visible to consumers when purchasing devices. This would be an important contribution – and we should agree on this – to consumer protection, and at the same time, Austria would also have help to achieve the climate change objective. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] So I am confident, ladies and gentlemen, that labelling will help consumers to make an important decision as to whether they will use energy-efficient appliances or resource eaters in their households in the future. I hope that we can get our support across all the political borders. In the hope that you will give your consent, I would like to thank all those who have contributed today and in the last three days to prepare these budget negotiations in this form, and at the same time I would like to express the hope that after a beautiful weekend we will still experience the fourth day – on Thursday – in all freshness together. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51335	In the word, no one has been reported for this. This also concludes this subject area. I'll be the meeting by Thursday, 3. May 2007, 9 a.m., interrupted. After re-negotiation of the negotiations, agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management will continue. The sitting was suspended. [[18:47:23]] [[The meeting was held on Friday, 27. April 2007, at 6.47 p.m. and on Thursday, 3rd. On 9 May 2007, continued at 9.02 a.m.]] Continued the meeting: Thursday, 3. May 2007, 9.02 a.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51382	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'll take the interrupted 21. Meeting of the National Council again on. Members Dr. Wittmann, Dr. Huainigg, Dr. Grünewald, Mag, have been reported as prevented on today's meeting day. Honey, Mag. Dr. Zinggl and Ing. Hofer. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51412	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik is represented by the State Secretary at the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs Dr. Hans Winkler. We continue to negotiate the 2007 and 2008 budgets. [[09:03:23]] Agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management Chapter 60: Agriculture, forestry and water management Chapter 61: Environment
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51466	The section on agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management, Chapter 60 and Chapter 61 is now discussed. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51485	As at the meeting on 25 May. A block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed for today’s meeting on April 2007, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, green and FPÖ per 92 minutes and BZÖ 64 minutes. The first is Mrs Lichtenecker's speech. Desirable time: 9 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51509	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! On this beautiful spring day I can start the day with a good news, and that is that there is an increase in the environmental budget, and that is good! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Cheers: Bravo!]] [[It was in favour of the Greens as well as of representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Thank you! If you say so!]] Less good – and this is now the worse news – is how high the increase has failed and how the funds are distributed. But that was to be expected. I would like to address the main points in my area, namely the settlement water industry, the old-age renovation, nature conservation, research and, of course, our biggest child of concern, Mr Minister, as you know, climate protection. When we look at the urban water industry, we note that this is an incredibly large part of this environmental budget, more than half, and so in the years 2007 and 2008 we come to over €300 million that flow in this area. This urban water economy now includes very important areas, namely municipal waste water disposal, municipal water supply – areas that are very important for the population. When we look at the situation in Austria, we see that 87 percent of the population are connected to the public water network and 89 percent to public sewerage and waste water treatment facilities. A large part of the resources of this urban water economy are in turn channelled into waste water disposal, and here, of course, the question arises: Are the priorities set here the right ones? Mr Minister, we have a very decentralised settlement structure in Austria, and we know that we are therefore very much at the border and at the edge of how far we can and should expand public canal networks. Rather, one has to rely on the decentrality and work with small on-site installations, with short lines. And here, Minister, we miss a particular focus. A much larger step that can be taken here concerns the issue of improving efficiency. While benchmarking has been common for some time, it is still being used to a much lower extent than it would actually be possible, and we know that this brings very high savings, both in costs and in energy. Here, with the enormous resources available here, it should be a major priority, on the one hand, to promote research and on the other hand to provide the municipalities with the necessary instruments. There are examples showing that investments in efficiency gains are amortising within the shortest time. In part, it doesn't even take two or three years, and that should be a signal! The mayors know how good this is for the population, if in this way the operating costs also fall. The other part – although smaller – flows into the area of water supply: Water treatment facilities, water resolution, construction of water pipes. Here, of course, the question is: Why is that necessary at all? – An essential reason why this is necessary in this form is the fact that there are many contaminants of sources and wells that sometimes have to be closed, or that new resources, new water sources, including the water pipelines that need to be built. Mr Minister, even if it is constantly presented that the situation in water resources is quantitatively and qualitatively so good, one must admit: If you observe it closely, there are very large areas throughout the East that are heavily polluted – on the one hand, due to nitrate pollution, on the other hand by pesticides. Mr Minister, in some regions pollution is falling, but in some regions, we know, the entries are getting stronger – and there is a need to act actively. Of course, the compensation for damage is in the interests of the population, and that is a good thing, but we should place very much emphasis on the precautionary principle here and try to avoid pollution. This means, of course, that we are moving ahead with the ecologicalisation of agriculture, but – and you know that too – we have hazardous substances in certain areas where it is to be considered whether we are going into a ban. But also – and here, of course, the federal states are also in demand – the increased identification of water protection and water protection areas would be a great help here and would, of course, also reduce costs. When we talk about water protection and soil protection, we come to the next “construction site” and that is the old load restoration. The old loads – abandoned waste dumps, contaminated industrial and commercial areas – have a particularly negative effect on the water, on the soil. If you use the calculations of the Federal Environment Agency, you can see: There are over 2 000 old loads and old load suspect areas that are in place for renovation. And the modest amount provided for in the budget, Mr Minister, is really a drop on the hot stone, because according to the calculations of the Federal Environment Agency, the renovation and safeguarding of these old loads will cost € 4.4 billion. If you put that up, we'll be there at 88 years! – Mr Minister, I wish you a long life of heart, but if you calculate this amount, then you need it. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Thank you!]] You really have a very healthy lifestyle, because then you too will be 130 years old. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I've already taken off!]] - That's good. [[Congratulations on the Greens as well as on representatives of the ÖVP.]] It's quite clear: We need to move forward faster, because the follow-up costs will otherwise only become more massive. Now on government programme and nature conservation: It is so kindly written in, the National Parks are important key projects for nature and environmental protection – well so; it will not contradict you – and the National Park regions will be extended to model regions for soft tourism. - Both of them loyal! Our national parks are exemplary! Our national parks have a great potential for expansion. In this direction we should continue to work – but also here the funds are missing. The employees work there excellently in the sense of nature and species conservation, but also in the sense of bringing people closer to the nature and importance of unspoiled nature. But if you look closely at it, then notice that the funds are missing here! This unbelievably minimal increase, Minister, is not something to push forward leading projects, developments, model regions. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Look at it! It's working!]] That's just too little! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. How many millions are it?]] We would have imagined something else in this category with God. If we now move on to the field of research, which is a central path to innovation, to further development, to safeguard the basis of life, then we must say that it is still here that we have not actively secured risk research or critical nuclear research or climate impact research. Here it would be high time to provide for appropriate resources, both in the field of research and, of course, in the environmental field, in order to ensure this – in the sense also of researchers, but especially in terms of the safety of the population. Climate protection: I have already said several times that a very large part of the increase, which is more than one third of the increase in the environmental budget, is going into the JI/CDM projects. These are projects where money flows abroad. Mr. Kopf, you're going to give me the right. It will not create domestic value added and no domestic jobs will be created. [[Abg. Head: That's not quite true!]] [[Abg. Krainer: “Not quite”!]] [[Lively cheerfulness of the Abg. Krainer.]] We've been expecting something else here. We need a strong home market in order to be able to export well here, and the key challenge must be that we need to change the energy system in general. It won't go on that way! We need a radical increase in efficiency – point one – and we need point two – a consistent transition to renewable energy forms, including in terms of sustainability and economic sustainability. Mr Minister, this requires a speedy and courageous process. On the one hand, of course, the question is: Where's the pace? – Here you could be on the road with 180! – and: Where's the courage? We miss both in this budget. [[Abg. Grill: You're for 180?- Oh, my God!]] Summa summarum: A gloomy development for environmental and climate protection, a gloomy budget of this black and red government!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51680	The next point is Mr Grillitsch. Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51701	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, it is quite gratifying to stand here as a farmer's representative and see that you feel comfortable, that you are healthy and that the farmers make an essential contribution to this, namely that you are provided with safe food every day, that you live in an Austria where it is beautiful where you feel comfortable. [[Abg. Scheibner: You have to be sorry!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] That is why I also think I can say: This is also the basis for this – with the framework conditions, with the budget, with a budget of sustainability for two years in turn, for 2007 and 2008, which ensures that you, ladies and gentlemen, and especially the Austrians, can continue to enjoy it. The budget for agriculture and the environment is a good budget. For agriculture and the environment, €2.9 billion is available in 2007 and €2.9 billion and a little more in 2008. This is an increase of 8.8 percent and 8.9% respectively compared to the budget proposal. This is precisely the safety and planning that our farmers need in the future in order to be able to operate on their farms accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, you all know the discussions about the Green Pact – emotional discussions also here in this House. While the one was talking about Gusenbauer in Germany a year ago or two years ago, one should cut 50 percent of these agricultural subsidies, it was the Austrian People's Party under Wolfgang Schüssel, Sepp Pröll and Willi Molterer, which ensured that the Austrian farmers will receive more from Brussels in the future than ever before – a great success that will now also be guaranteed with this budget, because it is possible to fully finance this Green Pact. [[Abg. May. Gässner: Two years ago the Federal Chancellor was named Schüssel!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] What is this Green Pact? – This Green Pact ensures that in the future our mountain farmers will also receive the same support, just the same as before, that we can also finance an environmental programme accordingly in the future that we can also pay corresponding investment subsidies to farmers. If you drive to Bavaria, you learn from our professional colleagues that there are 40 to 50 percent less there. That's how we can say: A great success for the Austrian farmers! – Agriculture means not only producing safe food, producing environmentally friendly, but also bringing about a huge employment offensive, especially in the regions where the farm is really, when invested, a job turbo for rural regions. This is also the case in the LEADER programme, where we can now provide more and more resources. There are 56 LEADER regions in Austria, 1 119 municipalities in eight federal states participate. This programme allows agriculture, tourism and the economy to be networked in these regions and to be promoted accordingly. Ladies and gentlemen, an essential measure – and I am very grateful that the approach has already been adopted in the past legislative period, so that implementation can take place now – is the broadband offensive. Information technology is a key to ensuring that in the future rural areas can also be an attractive economic location. It brings the world into the village, and we have the opportunity to bring out our ideas to the world in seconds. The broadband offensive is a great initiative that we need, and I also say openly: Broadband technology must not only be possible in agglomerations, but must be indivisible throughout Austria for all. The next point I am very pleased about, because it will enable farmers not only to be farmers in the future, but also to be ‘energy farmers’, is the establishment or establishment of the climate fund, through which we have the opportunity to make a contribution to the protection of the environment in the form of domestic potentials that literally come to us at the window, using new technologies, creating jobs and at the same time contributing to the protection of the environment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In other words, there is a change in value added, which we urgently need to ensure that our rural areas are also attractive economic spaces in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51782	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. Requested time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e51803	Madam President. Minister! High house! The government has largely announced its double budget 2007/2008 and pretended to be a big throw. The fact is that we have an unprecedented total debt of the state, and the fact is that in these times of the high economy and the upturn every year we have to pay €9 billion in interest service – that is as much as the much famous climate fund times 20, ladies and gentlemen! – And this is a continuous policy of the ÖVP. Dear reigns of the ÖVP, it is your policy that has led to this sovereign debt and which is responsible for this situation of Austria! [[Abg. Donabauer: If you criticize us, please give us the right figures, Mr President.]] And you praise this as a “great throw ”! I guess that's a joke. You really can't live with that and you can't be satisfied! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's something else to add: In times of economic upturn, where we have the chance to reduce these interest rate services, to reduce these debts, we are now indebted again to 0.9 percent of GDP! That means we do nothing in these times of a really big upswing to improve something – on the contrary! I wonder what will happen in the years 2010 to 2012, when the economic flute will come back, what the EIA will do to save this budget again. – I think you're on the wrong path. And your anachronistic celebrations, as they also do the SPÖ, where you praise great your merits, where you praise that now unemployment is going back, I think they are over. They should rather consider the real tasks and those we now have to do. As we stand here on the fourth day and debate the budgets, I ask myself the question: Was it necessary to sit here for four days? – Nothing changed at all! All the proposals that have come from us have been put under the table, and as far as I know, not a point, not a comma has been changed. All counter-arguments, all the suggestions of the Members have not been taken into account, nothing has moved! Just as well we could all have made a bike tour at the Wörthersee – it would not have moved any more in the budget. But we would have moved – perhaps it would have been a good thing for the Members. Well, there is a minister who is particularly resistant to proposals – whether in committee or in plenary. He's sitting here, nods understanding, smiles,... [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Prill: Do what he wants!]] Mr Pröll, at least you are a cheerful person – that is already something positive – but, Minister, do you care what happens in agriculture? [[Rejoicing]] Do you really care what the farmers have to suffer? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Just think: Do whatever you want, talk what you want, I don't care, it's all decided anyway!Unknown term type: "%s".? – Are you doing so in the perspective group of the ÖVP? Are the proposals that are coming there just as no matter what – or is that more important to you than what is happening in Austrian agriculture? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: (in the direction of the speaker) If you have no perspective, you can...!]] Minister! Dear colleagues from the ÖVP! So that you can see black on white what it really looks like in this republic [[The speaker holds a panel entitled “ÖVP Farmer Mortgages: Since 1995: – 47,392 Farmers; – 13 Farmers/Day” and then places them in front of the speaker’s desk.]] Since the ÖVP has been responsible for the farmers, there has been a dramatic farm mortality in Austria. Since 1995, since accession to the EU, we have fewer 47 000 farmers. 47 000 farmers – a minimum of 150,000 jobs in agriculture. Less than 150,000 jobs – this is your “deserving”, ladies and gentlemen in black! Your color is not too wrong black, you are death for these farmers in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: Who wrote you the nonsense?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Every day minus 13 jobs in Austria – every day! These are no longer slight statistical changes, these are no longer structural changes you are talking about, but this is a dramatic collapse of the entire agricultural structure! – How often do you laugh, Minister? 13 times a day? Smünzel You're 13 times a day? – That is, with every smile that comes across your lips, a farm in Austria dies! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Go, please!]] That is, 13 families die every day on your farms. [[Abg. Murauer: Could you lift it a little, the level? - A trace if you take it! - So deep!]] Every day 13 farms that have brought tradition and identity to this country have to be abandoned – every day a part of Austrian history dies! Every day 13 units of nature and healthy food production die. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] And you know it, Minister: A farm, once shut down, is shut down! It's no longer reanimable, not even with your government programs, it's lost! [[Abg. Murauer: Where do you have your farm? Where do you have your farm?]] And this development will result in Austria losing self-sufficiency, self-sufficiency capacity. That is, Mr Pröll, you have in no way solved the catastrophic policy of your predecessors. They are still doing, preferring that the EU would have brought the great blessings to this country and that the EU could really do something for future-oriented agriculture. Just a few points to get you to know this too: Today, thousands of farmers have to pursue a second job in order to maintain their farms at all. [[Abg. Grill:... shameful!]] And you are fighting, Mr Grillitsch, without a fair wage and without a regulated life, to continue the possibility of continuing your court – at the expense of your own families! [[Abg. Grill: Shame, your appearance! That's embarrassing what you're saying!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: I would not have trusted you to give such a embarrassing speech here! I wouldn't have trusted you! It's really embarrassing, I have to tell you what you're here...!]] It is often the farmers, Mr Grillitsch, who have to bear the heavy burden of management on their own, because their husbands have to follow suit. And what do you think of this as a solution? I see problems you want to solve: Affirmation of agriculture! – These are your solutions! That's ridiculous. "Regulatory"! This is an increase of the Austrian farmers: a programme for the prevention of agriculture! – I have to say: Incredible! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have no idea!]] Do you know how you could really help farmers where the fair approaches would be? – Dear reigns of the ÖVP, give the farmers fair prices for their products! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who gives prices?]] Create framework conditions for our farmers to work freely and honestly! [[Abg. Grillitsch: Explain to us who makes the price!]] And give you the opportunity to take responsibility for healthy food, environmental protection, conservation and expansion of our cultural landscape! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Completely next door!]] Because you say “full besides it!”, Minister: Perhaps you do not know the producer price trend in cereals, milk and potatoes. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Now we know who makes the prize: Mr. Klement at the push of a button!]] Look, please, this number – Mr Grillitsch, I will give it to you – look at this: [[The speaker holds a sheet with a graphic in the height]] [[Abg. Grill: Mr. Klement at the push of a button!]] Since 1994, since accession to the EU, milk has grown from 0.42 cents per litre to 29 cents! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes, and how much compensation?]] And that constantly low! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: How much compensation...?]] The wheat price from 22 cents to 8 cents! These are the prices we need to experience today in agriculture – and that is your policy! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Yes, how much compensation?]] [[Abg. Grill: No, that's half an image!]] You are responsible for this, dear reigns in Black! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Show me a single industry in Austria that has to live under these conditions! – There is no second to take such a thing. And you're trying to talk about it, you come here, Mr Grillitsch, and say that everything is beautiful, we live on good products and beautiful markets in Austria. [[Abg. Grill: Isn't that how we...?]] – That is not true, Mr Grillitsch! You have to open your eyes. Another point, Minister and Mr Grillitsch: You do not have to represent EU interests in Austria, but you have Austria's interests to represent in the EU! That's your job! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: That's why we have more...!]] The only thing we can really experience here is a common approach in the field of genetic engineering. At the last committee meetings, there was a bit of courage, so there was apparently consensus that genetic engineering was not good. We can see worldwide that genetic engineering brings crop failures, contaminations, famines. And in December 2006, we were able to prevent an attack by the EU Commission, which wanted to tip us into an Austrian free of genetic engineering and a ban on imports of GMOs. But the devil is not asleep, Minister, and I ask you what you are doing when the next attack of the genetic engineering lobby comes. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You said to me in the committee: If the EU tipped this genetic engineering-no in Austria, we would have to take it. – Mr Minister, there you are wrong! If Austria is to be overrun by the EU, we must resist! It is our duty to act against this insanity of genetic engineering, and here I call for your responsibility as a politician and ask you to do what we will do: [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] We will say no to this genetic technique by force, to this madness! – And I urge you to continue to do so in the European Union. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another point concerns climate change. It is true that climate hysteria can be heard very often by the Greens, less climate strategy. I hope that in the Greens too, there will be very good opportunities to switch to new forms of energy regardless of this discussion – Big Oil, Big Gas, Big Coal. Whether it is done for purely economic reasons or for reasons of the shortage of raw materials or for reasons of the desired energy autonomy, there are five very good ways for Austria to get in here: This is the solar energy with photovoltaics/solar thermals, biomass, hydropower, wind power and geothermal energy. But what do we have to record in Austria? – The Royal Class of Photovoltaics is in the process. There are no approaches at all to using the possibilities of photovoltaics. The new climate fund will not contribute much to this either. Mr Minister, as a comparison, consider what the Renewable Energy Act in Germany has created in the field of photovoltaics: Within a few years, this wonderful law has created 40 000 new jobs in photovoltaics and the associated follow-up industries! That is, we are in the middle of a technological revolution, we are in a technological quantum leap – and you are sleeping this, Minister! The seven-slaughters are really waken-up animals compared to Austrian energy and environmental politicians. Mr Minister, we know that the budget is visionless, inconceivable, but at least use the climate fund, take advantage of the opportunities we have! That, valuable rule of the ÖVP, are the proposals that come from us. If you record these, those four budget days might not have been in vain.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52249	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52270	Madam President. Federal Minister! If I didn't question: The Federal Minister does what he wants. – Did I hear that right, your quote? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I interpreted him!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lichtenecker started by saying that she meant: The environmental budget has increased. I am a little more uncertain about the agricultural and forestry budget, because there are two approaches. When I compare the 2006 budget approach with 2007/2008, I have to say, the budget is rising, Mr Grillitsch has already stressed this, but there is a slight inconsistency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] If one compares the new budget with the 2006 budget, i.e. the sum of the 2006 expenditure, then the budget decreases by exactly 3.1 percent. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] This makes it clear that the money now estimated cannot be found. You know, Federal Minister, it's just a bit strange to just juggle with numbers and not really say what's going on. I would suggest that in this case. In terms of content, the budget has not changed too much. It is still the driving force behind these expenditures. As Grillitsch has already stressed, we have a lot of money for rural areas, for rural development, and for: Green Pact. What touches me a bit strange, Mr Federal Minister, is the fact that you have told us that everything is okay, it is all right that the budget is secured, people get the money. – Yesterday I found out from the “Farmers News” homepage that last week the EU Commission sent you 189 questions about the Green Pact in the form of a letter. That's what I'm asking myself, Minister of State: As your coalition partner, why don't we get this letter, these 189 questions? Why does Parliament not receive this letter? I mean, it's high time we got to deal with these questions from the EU. They are addressed to Austria, because otherwise nothing is safe, with legal certainty in the case of promotions! I would ask you, Minister, that They are more open to us and simply provide us with these documents. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Murauer: Just like the Minister of Defense with the legal opinion!]] One thing is also interesting, Minister of State: Obviously you have long known that uncertainties from Brussels are threatening, because it is clear on the website of the Ministry of Life that the Republic of Austria does not assume any liability or risk for any funding failures. – You told our farmers a few weeks ago. The second, which we have repeatedly criticized, is the uneven, the unfair distribution of the promotions. This has not only been said by us, but has been confirmed in recent weeks by the Constitutional Court, which has more or less repealed the rules of the market. Rather, we should be really quick to talk about a new distribution, about a more just distribution – and we do! [[Abg. Grillitsch: We are careful that this will not become more unjust!]] Since Mr Grillitsch spoke to me here, I, ladies and gentlemen, must give another quote for the best, on 29 October. ==References====External links== That's what it says, and now, please be very careful: According to Grillitsch, “his goal of eliminating ‘existing injustices’ would only create new inequalities.” – This is what the newspaper says. [[Abg. Grill: Injustice!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you consider this sentence carefully, then Mr Grillitsch has made it very clear and clearly and admitted that the previous support is unfair. [[Abg. Grill: No, no, no!]] All right! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber.]] And this is a very good starting point for our negotiations in the market order which we will begin in Bälden. Not as good as starting point are then those things that you let us execute, such as Dr. Markus Rosinger, Farming Federal Director in Upper Austria, who says: “Communism has clearly failed. The Left Ideas still seem to spit around in some minds.” My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, these are not good conditions! Although I do not feel attacked in any way, I would like to conclude by saying: Justice and fairness in the funding distribution, that is not something you can adorn with a party mesh. Justice and fairness in distribution for all farmers – that is why we should work together!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52396	Next come Mr Dolinschek. 8 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52417	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Total expenditure on agriculture, forestry and water management: 2,256 billion for 2007, 2,258 billion for 2008. This is precisely 63 million or 3.1 percent less than was estimated in 2006. Despite a naturally high share of support in the agricultural and forestry budget, the reduction of €63 million is at the expense of the Austrian farmers. The agricultural budget is by far one of the most intensive areas of the federal budget. The market spending alone is estimated at 1.697 billion for 2007 and 1.698 billion for 2008. This is 75 percent of the total budget for agriculture and forestry. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber: That's not true because you said market order! These are market rules and rural areas!]] Right, together, Mr Pirklhuber! You can supplement me. We're in a position somewhere. In practice, it has been shown that many farmers have fallen out of this system in the past. It has already been disputed that this is not quite fair, and I also believe that there must be some change here, specifically in the award of milk quotas, animal premiums, farm premiums and so on. It is clear to me that in Austria – the Federal Minister has also said this in the Committee on Budgets – there are much less holdings than in other countries, but every farm that locks is too much, Mr. Federal Minister! Over the last ten years, 32 percent of farmers have given up, and 4 300 farmers give up each year. Every single one is too much! This, of course, depends not only on premiums and quotas, but also on other factors. You should not be oriented to the negative, but always to the positive, because it should go on! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In any case, Mr Federal Minister, this single farm premium distorts competition for smaller farms and promotes the significant favour of larger farms, promotes farmers' mortality and indirectly contributes to the loss of jobs in rural areas, of course also favours the intensive agricultural holdings of farming in eastern Austria and disadvantages the organic farms in the mountainous and green areas. This is true once, and that is why we need to rethink something in this area. In my opinion, the factor of work is far too little taken into account. It is about rural development. Healthy foods are of course very important to all of us, as are the implementation of the Green Pact and the technology offensive for rural development, ladies and gentlemen. What is particularly important to us in this context is the water industry. We have very good water resources to envy us very many countries, and we should also use them in the future. Especially after the winds of the storm “Kyrill”, which has been killed this year in January in Austria, and due to the continued dryness there is a further increase in the situation to be feared. The risk of forest fire is enormous in Austria. Due to the dried forest floors in winter there is too little moisture, the dryness also reduces the resistance of the trees against the birch beetle, and thus healthy trees are more threatened by borch beetle infestation. – That should be thinking. Now we had the dry April – it is a little rainy weather for the next future, but the soil is very dry; it was the driest April for 100 years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Mr Grillitsch, perhaps you can pray to the weather god, visit the church on Sunday immediately to the first fair and make an impact prayer to heaven that some moisture comes so that the plants do not spoil! Due to the drought there is less yield and also a worse quality. How much dryness is added to the fields is shown in the sugar beet and also in the cucumber, which is partly drying and cannot grow at all. The winter drive is also particularly dependent on rain as a flatwurtzler. If the plant does not receive water, it does not form a seed, Mr. Federal Minister. In any case, the expected harvest losses will lead to a loss of sales in agriculture. It is necessary to ensure that at least a large part of it can be intercepted and paid off. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Normally, fields are irrigated from mid-June. An earlier commitment will result in loss of income in agriculture because it will increase costs. Through intensive irrigation, in turn, there is a risk to groundwater levels. It is therefore necessary to consider, Minister of State, what steps are being taken in continuing dry periods, as they are currently ruling. An irrigation plant, such as it already exists in winemaking, should also be considered. It is to be considered how to promote agriculture so that the failures do not have to be compensated. In the long term, consideration should be given to irrigation systems that run over longer distances and thus do not negatively affect groundwater levels in the dry phases. In some areas – in wine-growing – this is already happening. We should make better use of our domestic water – it is one of our greatest natural resources and is also called “white gold” – especially for agriculture in the future, Mr. Federal Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52484	Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52521	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek, Mr State Secretary, Social State Secretary, Agriculture has not been your special area so far, and you have not been able to hide it completely in your speech. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ, the Green and the BZÖ.]] I admit, it is not my special area, but we – thank God – have in our club a variety of such experts who will also take a position on it. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where are they all?]] Mr Grillitsch has already done so. But I can read. If I look at the budget figures, I don't know where you can read a fall in the agricultural budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your own coalition partner says that!]] If I look at my figures or the estimates from the printed budget estimates, then I can say that from 2006 to 2007 we even had an increase of 10 per cent in the agricultural sector and an increase of 9 per cent in 2008. I ask you to stick to the facts when you present budget figures here and then comment on them, especially negatively commenting. [[Call the BZÖ: You have to tell the SPÖ!]] You did it, I'm not with my colleague Gaßner. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Environmental policy: There is probably the biggest challenge of this time of climate protection, but not only because it is in all its mouths, but because it actually presents us with some challenges. But you have to say: It is not Austrian challenges alone, it is a global challenge that we must face throughout Europe, indeed worldwide. There are basically three answers to this: save energy, increase the efficiency of the application, and finally – especially important! – Developing alternatives to the energy sources we currently use – at least mostly. We have three main areas of application: Economy, transport, the whole area of housing. We have made enormous progress in the economy, in industry, especially in production, and unfortunately not so much in transport, unfortunately not in the area of housing, so our domestic environment. That means we have to give answers here. In the area of housing, I believe that the 15a-negotiation, which is about to begin soon on the topic of housing promotion or, in general, on financial compensation, is a huge chance. The promotion of housing is a key to improving the efficiency of housing – especially space heat. In Vorarlberg, from now on, only passive energy-house standards are being promoted in the large-volume area – that is, in the case of non-profit-making housing companies. After this technology is now state of the art, it must be possible to transfer it to all of Austria. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Holy shit.]] I ask all those who participate in these negotiations to address this matter with the necessary understanding and the necessary seriousness and not to miss this opportunity in the sense of climate protection. I said earlier: An essential task will be to develop alternatives to current applications and current energy sources that we use. Mr Minister, congratulations on an idea that our clubman Wolfgang Schüssel has already discussed before the last election, namely the establishment of a climate fund, now called climate and energy funds. You have further developed this idea, it is already by the Council of Ministers and can soon be implemented in concrete terms. Dear Mr Klubobmann Wolfgang Schüssel, Minister of the State, it is a huge chance that we now have at our disposal a fund in this area – research into new technologies in the application of energy sources, but even more important, in the development of new energy sources and their development towards marketability – that we can use money in this direction. This is probably one of the most important achievements of the last months when we take climate change seriously – and we in the ÖVP take it seriously. Mr Federal Minister, I think that is exactly the right answer to this challenge that we are all facing.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52603	The next speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. Desirable time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52624	Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Kopf, climate protection is a very central concern, not a question, but unfortunately your proposals have so far remained far behind expectations. Also – and I am now referring to my chapter – as regards agriculture, I would have expected ambitious elements in the new rural development programme, for example an offensive for the conversion of tractors to plant fuels. This would have been an innovation in the agricultural sector. [[Abg. Grill: We do that anyway!]] I already have to say to Mr Dolinschek's teaching: Of course, it is a budget reduction compared to the actual success of 2006. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Success? Wolfgang!]] On the 2006 budget result. €2.3 billion was the agricultural expenditure in 2006, the 2007 estimate is €2.256 billion – that is a minus of 3.1 percent, which has already been said. But – and now the information is coming – we have discussed in the committee how these differences come about. Clearly, the Federal Minister has admitted that it can again be expected that the €140 million will come from EU funds. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll nodding.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer.]] In other words, it is expected that a budget of €2.4 billion will be available in the agricultural sector. – Maybe that once in a while. But, ladies and gentlemen, from a green point of view, not the level of the agricultural budget is the problem, but the actual design. There the nail sample must be made, this is the question to be followed: What and how efficiently are these resources used? The agricultural budget is the most common budget chapter, with just over €1.4 billion of it being EU funds. [[Abg. Grillitsch: That is why we should be talking about this budget in Brussels. Good talk, don't hurt!]] That is, 60 percent of the total agricultural budget is already EU funds. 60 percent, colleague Grillitsch. [[Abg. Grill: That's why: talk well and don't make bad!]] All right, I'm going to address this speech, Mr Grillitsch, you're gonna get a replica. [[Abg. Grillitsch: I beg!]] But before that, I would like to point out the following: Despite Community policy – European legislation – and agricultural policy, there is a huge national scope. This national design scope has not really been used in recent years. I would remind you that there are two main pillars in the agricultural policy: The one pillar is the entire market area. Here, the major challenge of recent years was the decoupling of premiums. The other pillar is rural development, which is currently being negotiated in Brussels. In this area, we have a little more than €1 billion a year when we consider all the budget resources – that is, the Federal Government, the countries and the European Union. At present we have the following distribution of total agricultural support: about 60 percent of the funds go to rural development, about 40 percent in market order and others. Ladies and gentlemen, from a green point of view, this is undoubtedly a good strategy. We have always appreciated the fact that more investment in rural development is being made. But unfortunately you did not support this approach when it was discussed at the European level. At the time, Commissioner Fischler was interested in helping him to break through much more at European level. But You said at the time: No, we don't! - I'm just remembering that. The second thing that matters to me – where we also see very positive facets and positive developments – is the Austrian positioning in the field of GMO-free agriculture. In this area, Mr Federal Minister, you have really answered my brief budget question in detail. You have explained in detail which projects you support, and also that you want to use additional funding for critical research in the field of agro-gen technology in the next few years. I would like to express my appreciation of this. But now to our problem area in the agricultural policy, to implement it in detail. [[Abg. Grillitsch: You haven't said anything to Brussels yet!]] This is coming, Mr Grillitsch. [[Abg. Grill: No!]] The implementation in detail – point one: the entire market order. This entire market order concerns a volume of €670 million in 2007. Ladies and gentlemen, this market order has so far been passed by Parliament, past Parliament's agricultural policy. This is not constitutional, and it is in fact proven. The Constitutional Court has already repealed several premium regulations, namely the Animal Premium Regulation and the Milk Guarantee Regulation. You know there is a need for urgent action here. ==References== In June 2007, the Market Regulation Act must be transposed. [[Abg. Grill: We do this! Come on, Pirklhuber, we'll do this!]] There will be substantial debates to this end, and I assume that we will deal with this in the next Committee on Agriculture. I also remember that the criticism of these market-regulation premiums has come not only from the green side, but also from your own warehouse. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Say something to Brussels!]] The then Burgenlander Landesrat Ritt tax – ÖVP – for example, has clearly stated who is innovative, loses with this program that you have implemented. Landesrat Stockinger in Oberösterreich stated two days ago that it was an overall taxing programme. He is unhappy about this programme, he has clearly referred to the market-regulation premiums. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Answer the question why we do not yet have an approval from Brussels!]] There is also a study that clearly proves this, and I quote from this study: “In Austria, agricultural reform has a more negative or less positive effect in all farm groups analysed than in comparable conventional plants.” [[Abg. Grill: Answer the question!]] And on top of that: ‘This can be attributed on the one hand to the implementation of the operating premiums ().’ [[Abg. Grillitsch: Answer the question why we do not yet have an approval from Brussels!]] You see, therefore, that there are studies that clearly demonstrate that the single payment scheme has disadvantages for organic farming. I quote from a European study, colleague Auer. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Answer the question why we do not yet have an approval from Brussels!]] It is also clear that the excess-party initiative for a fair agricultural reform has fought this market order in recent years in a massive and successful way, ladies and gentlemen. More than 2,000 farmers have complained against the AMA decisions, have appealeds and have gone before the Constitutional Court. Today in March, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, the Constitutional Court decided to examine this occupational premium regulation for its legality. [[Abg. Grillich: The speaking time is soon to end, answer my question! What are you doing in Brussels?]] The second pillar of the agricultural policy, the current rural development programme, is now under negotiation. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there are intensive negotiations with Brussels in this area. [[Abg. Grill: Exactly!]] On your question, Mr Grillitsch: If, in its media, the Federal Farmers' Association organises a hoot against critics of the Austrian agricultural policy, a hoot with false arguments, without any idea of what these agricultural farmers are doing, what these people are really doing and what they are demanding, without dealing with a single word, then I already ask the question: [[Abg. Grill: Stop it! No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: Austria in Brussels!]] Why does this farmers' association receive public funding for such publications? - That's a scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is a scandal that a political sub-organisation of the ÖVP is still receiving press promotion, and that does not mean anything other than political hetze, because no other thing can be said about what you have listed in recent months! [[New condolences with the greens.]] This leads us to criticise this programme. – Mr Grillich, laugh You won't. You're gonna lose your laugh. They will certainly also be taken from the high Ross, not only from us, but also from the European Commission. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I now come to the comments made by Mr Gaßner. [[Abg. The European Commission is sitting on the high horse!]] – This is a mistake, colleague. The EU Commission represents the interests of a single European agricultural policy. It calls for environmental measures – if they are environmental measures – to be justified, argued and predicted. This rural pact, to which Mr Pröll is responsible, is an intensification pact. It does not promote organic farming, it weakens organic farming in Austria, it reduces premiums for green farmers and for organic farms. That's a fact, ladies and gentlemen, that's detectable! For example, the removal of the animal stock limits of 2 CVEs. That was in the old agricultural environment programme ÖPUL Factim, Federal Minister, in the new, this animal stock limit of 2 GVE is lifted. There are farms that can now hold up to 3 GVE – I can show you in detail if you want. New promotions are granted, for example for intensive gullible tube without taking into account composting. [[Abg. Friend: But this is environmentally friendly!]] Money is spent on beet farmers who have not yet received environmental support, and much more. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this motion for a resolution serves to ensure that Parliament is at last sufficiently informed by the Minister for Agriculture. The sample of nails for this budget chapter will be the concrete implementations. You have not done your homework, Mr. Federal Minister, yet!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e52968	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53023	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53044	Madam President. Minister! High house! The realization that the ice on the north pole melts much faster than originally assumed and probably from 2050 the North Pole in Summer will be ice-free once again this week the urgency of climate protection measures has led us to face up to. Of course, we have to react globally, that is not a question. We must make every effort to ensure that there is a regime that effectively contributes to climate protection after Kyoto. I think that Mr Dolinschek's prayer against drought alone will not be able to accomplish it. An Austrian contribution is still in demand, however, there is no doubt about that. The Climate and Energy Fund, which happened yesterday to the Council of Ministers, is certainly an important contribution to this and an important basis for accompanying research, innovation and the implementation of new technologies on this issue. Above all, I expect this climate and energy fund to contribute and help to force domestic climate protection measures so that we can achieve a really lower carbon base. This will be of real existential importance for all regimes after 2012. Climate protection measures in Austria create value added domestically, create jobs, improve security of supply with energy and help to expand public transport, with many positive side effects, such as a cleaner air. In addition to the measures described in the climate strategy, there is of course also a wide range of other things to be implemented, a broad scope of action. I would like to mention some of them. First of all, I believe that bio-sprit needs a pickerl, namely a pickerl, where it is clear that this bio-sprit is truly sustainable, that this bio-sprit is really organically produced and not perhaps on burnt rainforests, where indigenous peoples have been removed the basis of life, where monocultures now exist, perhaps genetically manipulated. We need rapid implementation of the EU Buildings Directive. We need an energy pass for every house, regardless of its use. We should look at, evaluate and, if necessary, innovation the eco electricity law to produce investment security in all different sectors in the future. We urgently need to ecologize public procurement, but we also need to involve social, ethical and gender aspects. I also believe that we should tackle supposed niches and look everywhere where perhaps not so much CO2 can be saved at first sight, but also potential as in off-road machinery in construction and in agriculture, which need verifiable emission limits. The fact that the whole issue of public passenger and regional transport will be very large, which will contribute to an improved CO2 budget is clear and obsolete. This requires efforts, as well as a comprehensive truck toll and a more public-friendly modification of the Transport Directive at European level. district heating as well as remote colds should be promoted. We should see that at KWKs we come to an optimal efficiency and a good energy efficiency. And we must also engage internationally in questions of the post-Kyoto protocol. On the one hand, the regime should be broad-ranging, i.e. all the issuers around the world who really contribute a lot to CO2 emissions must be recorded. At the same time, it must also be very ambitious targets. Say: It won't be easy! It is a bit the square of the circle, but it will be the square of the circle that will allow another survival on our Earth That's it. And new ideas in international regimes, such as the involvement of air traffic in the trade in certificates, will be necessary. Climate protection is a common measure. Commonly, across all country borders. Commonly means, across all resorts. And together we also have to combine all the political forces. And just as I really and honestly take all the proposals of the opposition parties very seriously on this issue and think that we have to deal with everyone and implement everything that is going on somehow, I also expect a consensus policy in terms of climate. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53111	Now Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53132	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased about the outcome of the budget negotiations in the field of environment and agriculture, because this will provide sufficient forward-looking provision for the livelihoods of this country in 2007 and 2008. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In both areas, environmental policy and agricultural policy as well as rural policy, we have set very important emphasis on this. I am somewhat surprised by the contributions from the opposition, although I already understand that agriculture policy is often used as a “crew-and-crew discussion”. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Hello!]] That is why I would like to outline the cornerstones once again. Wolfgang Pirklhuber said something correcting that I can underline: It is the key figures of the 2006 budget to be compared with those of the 2007 and 2008 budgets – and then the success in the 2007 and 2008 financial statements with the success of 2006. Everything else doesn't make a comparison! If we compare the key dates of the budgets, ladies and gentlemen, we can see: It has been budgeted for both budgets, agriculture and the environment, € 2.6 billion in 2006, € 2.8 billion in 2007, and € 2.85 billion in 2008. This is a significant increase in key data! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In terms of environmental policy, this means that in the field of domestic environmental promotion, we can put emphasis on the fight against climate change, with the following increase: In 2006, we had used € 560 million. We increase this by 2.5 percent for 2007 and 7.3 percent for 2008. And we are increasing budgets in all central environmental areas, with the main focus on domestic investment. The funding for domestic environmental promotion will be increased from €80 million to over €90 million. This money flows into climate-related investments, helps the economy, creates jobs and improves environmental quality. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Partly!]] 10 million € more – an important and clear impulse! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Secondly, We also increase the “green investment” abroad. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I cannot spare you to criticise your accusation that it is all money going abroad, because climate protection is a global matter. If we help with these “green investments” abroad, especially in the emerging economic nations such as China and India, to switch from coal to renewable energy forms and then count these CO2 certificates for us, then the meaning of the global climate makes. First point. Second point: Let us keep our minds on this discussion. In the JI/CDM Commission, we always look to the fact that Austrian companies are particularly affected by these projects. Then we create the corresponding input and the corresponding value added. And we will therefore increase the funds from €46 million to €56 million in this area. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] For the restoration of old loads: No other country in the European Union has spent so much money in recent years and decades rehabilitating old loads. We are continuing this programme consistently. On the contrary: We are still giving a clear impetus to the future and will continue to revitalise the old load. It is clear that this is a work that cannot be done entirely in the 2007 and 2008 budgets for the burdens we have from the past. This is a task for years – if not decades – but the funds can at least be seen in the international comparison. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, now on a subject which I think is a central task of the future, namely climate protection. Yesterday, in the Council of Ministers, we decided on the Climate and Energy Fund: 500 million € to the year 2010. €200 million is foreseen in the two 2007 and 2008 budgets. With this decision taken yesterday and with the decision-making in Parliament, as I hope, we can use this fund by 1. July this year, so to speak, will put into effect the first €50 million for this year. I cannot understand the criticism of this climate and energy fund at all, it goes completely empty, because if you look at what is available in European comparison, you can see that there is no such construction throughout Europe and worldwide. 500 million €, ladies and gentlemen! And you say, Mrs Lichtenecker: That's thin soup, like I could read in the paper. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: It's too little!]] 500 million € are almost 7 billion schilling by 2010 – new, “fresh” money for environmental policy and climate protection! If this is a thin soup, ladies and gentlemen, then I no longer know what the discussion can bring. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will use the Climate and Energy Fund to serve three main lines: Research and development in the field of alternative energies. We will invest massively in public transport, forcing people to redirection, especially in the pendler area, from the car to the rail. And we will, thirdly, and I think this is a key in the Climate and Energy Fund, a lot of what will help market maturity in innovation, which stands in research at universities and in private research institutions. We see that there is a lot of know-how and input, but often the market penetration with these products cannot succeed. This is precisely what the Climate and Energy Fund is designed for. We'll be this fund until 1. Set up July and he'll start his work. Now on agricultural policy. . But first of all, I should like to say a word on the comments made by Mr Klement: The complexity of the agricultural policy proves that, before taking up the speaker's seat, one should deal with it quite honestly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What has been given by you here for the best is in every detail smoothly wrong. Let's take a look at the cornerstones! Let's stick to the facts and facts! I don't demand any more and no less. Estimate 2006: €2.11 billion. Success was higher. 2007: €2.33 billion, plus 10.5 percent. 2008: €2.31 billion, plus 9.4 percent. Key data comparison – and there I am again at Wolfgang Pirklhuber; I rarely do this, but I really have to do it in this case –: Success in 2007 and 2008 will, of course, also be much higher than the 2006 success due to return from Brussels and also the empowerments that are planned and that we will fulfil. Compare the same thing with the same thing! Everything else leads to a crossing of the facts and cannot be supported. Second point: Mr Klement, if you are talking about 'farmers', I must say to you: I looked at the numbers. You have, I think, said that 45 farms a day would die. [[Call the FPÖ:13!]] 13 holdings. It's still a lot too many. [[Call the FPÖ:47 000!]] 47 000, yes, exactly! I have looked at the data and started in 2003, since I was responsible as Minister of Agriculture in Austria. We had 190 382 farms at the time. We had 2005/2006 189 591 companies. This is a minus of 791 farms in three years. This is a business per day, if at all! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, stick to the facts! These are the real numbers! We have made the curve at the “farmer’s death” Thank you, yes, we have jointly stopped the “farmer’s death” with a smart agricultural policy and a good rural policy. We have – and this is also a point that is important! . much more money was collected in Brussels so that we could also stop this trend than all other European Union countries. And this is a great agricultural success that we can be proud of together. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, if you complain of the fall in prices in agriculture, I must tell you: We do so too, but this is, of course, a development – also due to the opening up of countries, now 27 and beyond – which is decided on the markets and not by politics. You know who controls the prices today: These are supply and demand, also in the agricultural field. But you may have lost one thing: that in the last weeks and months, as was the case in 2006, in almost all production areas – I opened the vegetable season yesterday; the vegetable season is officially opened in Vienna: [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] “Vienna vegetables”; take it, it’s healthy, and you take it down! – price trends, for example in cereals or beef and veal, are positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] I repeat: The price situation was positive in 2006 and also in the first quarter of 2007. This is a development we can be proud of! If you complain of the price situation and the fall in prices since 1995, we are also talking about how we have been able to increase compensation payments clearly and significantly since 1995. This is the second part of the invoice in the agricultural budget. We will send, ladies and gentlemen, a clear signal for agriculture and for the future of rural development, with the Green Pact for Austria. For the environmental programme, €527 million, €278 million for mining aid and twice as much as before, namely €304 million, for investment promotion. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gaßner, in particular! The ‘Green Pact’ is a disposition in Brussels and has to be notified accordingly. We're in this process. There are over 180 questions, but there is no question of money. It's €3.9 billion! And the numbers I've listed are beyond dispute. The 180 questions relate to various details in the programmatics. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: 189 questions! Read it first, then talk!]] We are on average here compared with other countries. Some countries have even postponed the 2007 programmes and will not offer them this year. But we're fighting for it! I am negotiating with the European Union that the Green Pact can already become a reality in 2007. These questions are very detailed, should be clarified at the technical level accordingly. These are no political issues. The whole package in Brussels is out of dispute. It is also important that there is no confusion and discussion that insures farmers and farmers. In this sense, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, we will also focus on agriculture and the environment. On the one hand, and this has not yet been mentioned, but especially for a country like Austria, we will significantly increase the funds in the disaster fund for the first time since 1995, by €37 million annually to €160 million, because we want to protect people, especially in the alpine area, from avalanches and floods. We will use more money for this in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with the means for the Agency for Health and Food Safety, we also ensure this important instrument of monitoring and monitoring from the field and from stable to the consumer, giving an important signal along the food chain that consumers can rely on domestic production from the farms of this country. And we will invest as much as ever before, ladies and gentlemen, in agricultural education. And that is also especially dear to me – together with research. There is €3.5 million a year more for schools, for strengthening sites, for strengthening knowledge, for strengthening research and teaching. This is important for young people, and this is also a future investment that we can be proud of together after the budget has been adopted. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Last point, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: We also do something for the competitive position of the Austrian farmers. We will offer the agricultural diesel, which will also be refunded for agricultural diesel in the future, because almost all countries of the European Union know these models. In order to enable our farmers to produce at an equal level, a clear commitment to the continuation of this system will also be made in this area. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, these 2007 and 2008 budgets are two sustainable budgets for the life bases of Austria, for agriculture and rural areas, for environmental policy and for climate protection. This budget data can be built on. And we should make the most of it together now.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53320	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53342	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! We of the liberals have always looked at the simple farmers, because we believe that only the survival of free and powerful farming is the guarantee that our livelihoods will retain air, water, soil, plants and animals in their uniqueness. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What this has to mean is the small example of a direct marketer. There are still a few small businesses that you, Federal Minister, have not killed. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Hey, hey, hey!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Hey, hey, hey!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: a call for order!]] There's still them, these farms! – If you go to a farmer’s market and cost these products, you already know what is worth in comparison to what you get from the wholesale. As a result of the many support measures, farms are under pressure or dependent. This complex support system is starting from the beginning. I looked at this a little bit. There are massive forms to be filled out – you may know that – much more than those few I have in my hands. [[The speaker holds up papers]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: So? What about this one?]] In this respect, we should consider that it is not easy for a farmer to complete these quantities, because it is a very complicated system. Why don't you go here and if you're already talking about the broadband offensive, make it possible online, and why does this have to be put back every year? [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's it!]] Why would it not be possible to apply for a change in framework conditions, under changed basic conditions? This is, of course, another EU story. In my opinion, farmers do not consider themselves to be an extended arm or replacement of a statistical central office or of an EU authority, but they are responsible for the production of healthy, edible food. Furthermore, I believe that although many things can be regulated and standardised by means of EU documents, weather or harvest yields cannot be affected. “As if a mouse makes a fist,” you compared very well. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: What?]] That's what it was. Your statement on climate protection: “As if a mouse makes a fist.” [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I've never said that before!]] Then I might've gotten that wrong. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] “As if a mouse were to make a fist,” it would be if all those farmers who have locked their farm in the last ten years were to stand up. I do not think that is a great achievement, Mr Federal Minister. It may already be that it has been significantly less since your term of office, but the whole thing has already begun before your time, and the Ministry of Agriculture has always been in the hands of my knowledge. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No, not until 1986!]] For us it is clear that the small rural structure and culture are simply destroyed. You, Mr President-in-Office of the ÖVP, are the graves of small farmers and have developed into the machinations of the large-scale agricultural industry. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Madam President! “Death graves” he said!]] For us, there is no approach in this budget to counter this development, but that was not really to be expected either.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53500	Mr Zanger, I assume that this was an unfortunate wording when you referred the accusation to the Federal Minister: ‘There are still a few small farms you have not killed.’ [[Abg. Singer: I meant the “farmer’s death! ”]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then I take note of this and assume that you also take this expression back. Mrs Hellererer's next speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53537	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! High house! From this point of view, I should like to congratulate our Minister for Agriculture Josef Pröll on the success of increasing the agricultural budget for 2007 and 2008. This creates a secure political framework for our farmers and is also a clear commitment to a comprehensive Austrian agriculture and, of course, to a positive development of rural areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This not only ensures agricultural income, but also ensures jobs for women in the agricultural sector, because almost 50 percent of farms are owned by women in their own right or are employed as co-manufacturers. This is the right approach to this agricultural budget. Mr Klement, in his contribution to the debate, strongly criticised the fact that there is also a gender approach in this budget. But especially in view of the fact that 50 percent of the value added in agriculture – at least the value of production in the agricultural sector in Austria last year was €5.7 billion – is generated by women, of course, the gender approach here is particularly important. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As a farmer, it makes me particularly proud to find very innovative women, especially among the 35-year-old business leaders, who are mainly professionals who train and train themselves in their profession. These claim, of course, that the best training options are given. And in this respect, €3.5 million is earmarked for school, research, rural development and agriculture. And a lot of it also benefits women. Of course, it is also necessary – and it has happened in this way – that the principle of equal treatment and equality is also taken into account in the preparation of the Austrian environmental programme. And it is not only in the axis 1 where it is about investments for farms that are intensively concerned with how they can integrate future new branches, that women's farms are also supported accordingly. It is also important that in the axis 3, where quality of life programmes for rural areas, where the diversification of the rural economy is concerned, also benefit women in proportion equal terms. The changeover to the LEADER concept should also, of course, ensure that the women's programmes are supported accordingly. There, too, the approaches are already recognizable. In fact, it has been stimulated or has been consciously looked at that the LEADER Action Groups are also used by women in order to implement their programmes. The rural area with Austrian agriculture is not only a living, working and recreation area, but also, above all, an area where women find a job in agriculture, which also needs to be sustained. I can only say: Without women, there is no state to do! It's all known. Without women, Austrian agriculture also does not work. [[Congratulations with ÖVP.]] It is therefore also to be welcomed that the gender approach in the agricultural budget is so clear.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53604	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 8 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53625	Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to begin today's debate with a quote from Charles Darwin: ‘All that is against nature has no permanent existence.’ This quote should make clear to all of us, if not long ago, how important it is for us to be an intact environment. However, despite the budgeted increases in the field of the environment, I must point out that the ambitious climate protection targets, which were agreed on, among other things, at the last European Council in March of this year, will actually be just a drop on the hot stone. In a recent study by company consultant McKinsey, a total of over €800 billion for the whole of Europe is about to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 percent by 2020. It will therefore be a huge challenge for all European countries to achieve this objective of reducing CO2 emissions. For this federal government, the way only seems – and from my point of view quite wrong – possible about the purchase of certificates. This is certainly the wrong way. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the money will be invested abroad, and where it is not at all clear where the money is going. Nobody knows! Not even 1 percent is currently certified. We all know that this is the most important thing in the nuclear industry. In my view, it would be appropriate to invest the funds in research and development for renewable energy, which in turn would lead to an avalanche of new jobs and thus also strengthen the domestic economy. Just one thing to do: At € 1 billion in investments in building renovation, 7.5 million square meters of old building can be brought to passive house standard. The There are about 100 000 apartments. This would help not only the environment, but above all every individual citizen. It would also help to save long-term energy costs. Since thermal building renovation is so important to us and the fastest – which is also important – leads to success, I submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr. Federal Minister, what must not be, is that, as in 2006, the total budget will not be exhausted. There you have left 64 million of the environment to the budget or not to the environment. A proposal from me that doesn't cost anything: According to media reports, there is a surplus of biodiesel. In this respect, it would be appropriate to take the necessary steps, namely a change to biodiesel in inland waterway transport and the snowdrops – which would certainly benefit tourism through better air quality – as well as in agricultural equipment and public transport in buses. It is not at all clear that farmers are being promoted with normal diesel, where there is enough biodiesel. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Finally, I would like to say that I particularly welcome the fact that the OMC has set up a €100 million fund for renewable energy projects, which is intended to generate €500 million of investment. Here, the electricity companies would also be required to invest in this direction, from the association to the Landesgesellschaften – for their own benefit, because the glaciers melt and the water will also go out for the storage power plants; and also where in 2006 they earned very much by the price increases for electricity. It would be high time that the large energy companies, from association to state companies, also took an example at the OMV. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Federal Minister, you say that Austria is on the right track as far as the environment and quality of life are concerned. Lose However, please do not forget the goal and act at last! I ask you many times: Do it at last! The environment is no better by speaking alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53719	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53781	Mrs Binder-Maier's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53802	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! First of all, full support for Mr Hellerer's statements. Secondly, to the address of Mr Klement: Her image of women is becoming increasingly perplexed. Take note that it is reality that more than 50 percent of women are business managers at Austrian courts and that they do excellent work there! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now want to devote myself to a small segment in the agricultural sector. The month of April and abnormal temperatures also show effects in Austria. Some of the feed silos are empty. The first locust, they say, is rather bad, there was no real rain, the inflorescence appears early. The bees are the beneficiaries of this early flowering beauty. I emphasize: still! – with call signs – because we are confronted with reports from the USA and also from Spain, where the bees have fallen by up to 70 percent. Austria's beekeepers are also worried about this. The causes can be very different. The Austrian beekeepers skeptically consider the role of genetic engineering. There are no clear answers yet to the influence of the pollen of genetically modified plants on bees and honey. At present we have 31,000 bee sticks in Austria, which are maintained and supplied by 23 000 very dedicated beekeepers. The lack of bees would have far-reaching consequences for humans, for nature, for growth: So there may be crop failures in certain foods, especially in apples, pears and 90 other vegetables and fruit varieties, if the flowers are not pollinated by bees. Also meat could become scarce, if, for example, important feed plants are missing. Mr Minister, from this point of view I am very sorry that at the end of 2006 the Institute for Beekeeping in Lunz am See came to close in my region. Two employees are still working there on the pollen analysis. Ladies and gentlemen! Albert Einstein once said in this context: “When the bees disappear from the earth, man has only four years to live.” I would say that the phenomenon of bee dying must not be dramatized, Mr Minister, but it must be taken very seriously and initiatives must be taken. By the way, I join my colleague, Mr Gaßner: We believe that this agricultural budget must achieve and also implement greater justice in promoting agriculture and farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53851	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53875	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President, I can remember that once, as Minister of Women at the Federal Chancellor's Office, you were also responsible for the anti-CFC policy, for the fight against the nuclear power plant that we are unfortunately still neighboring in Temelín. Madam President, I can recall that if I compare this with what the Federal Chancellor now sees about Agendas, you have managed to develop a road map together with the five parties represented in Parliament at the time. There really was an atomic consensus where you knew exactly: What is the next step? When is Austria taking another lead? What is planned at European level? What are we trying to place on alternative forms of energy in the Czech Republic? How is it now continuing diplomatically? Yes, Madam President, I am now missing both the Minister for the Environment – we do not know exactly what the next steps are – and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. Mr Bundeskanzler, when will we finally bring the action we have taken here in Parliament, again in consensus, so to speak, in joint action, as far as I remember, at the end of October? Or was it early November? There is a decision to bring this action against our neighbouring country in international law, because the Milk Agreement is not complied with or in the case of the Czech Republic even declares the Milk Agreement to be irrelevant. When are you doing something, Mr. Federal Chancellor? . I am glad that you are here that you are attending the environmental debate, that you are attending the climate change debate, and that you may now be bringing your nuclear weight to the meeting, to the joint debate. – For the first time, this was the retrospective and the call. Secondly, Mr. Environment Minister, your ministry has been called the Ministry of Life since the times of Minister of Agriculture and the Environment Molterer. I would have preferred to make my statement under the title “How will the basis of life really be preserved?” in view of this terminology, that the Ministry of Life is partly responsible for this. I mean, it was always an euphemism that you call yourself “the Ministry of Life”, not to mention where various actions were not just a life-friendly one on the part of agriculture. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Go, please!]] Please, I use the perfect, even the perfect – “words”. Think about the problem of groundwater pollution, Minister, think of nitrate pollution! I have a short request to do so. It is directed at exceeding the nitrate threshold limit. In 2000, we were already 11.9 percent, falling from 15.5 to 11.9 percent. In 2005 we are back at 13.1 percent. Why is there an increase in your term of office instead of going down? From 11 percent it goes up again to 13 percent. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You know: weather events! Strikes!]] - Maybe you can explain this to me a little bit more in detail. - That's one. ‘Ministry of Life’ means: A lot of colleagues before me have already mentioned it, life is related to living. The question as to how far the countries really are, as you always propose, and how we have been preaching for decades, I think, a climate protection thermal insulation offensive through housing development remains open. We also need a roadmap, as is the case at the financial compensatory negotiations in this direction, as one then makes a junkimization and also a legal anchorage. Minister, the same is true of mineral oil tax. Today, they have again led the Climate Fund with its 500 million, 50 million et cetera this year. I still have Mr Molterer's remarks in the ear, who said that these funds are used for research, innovation and technology. They say, in part, we really spend it for climate-related things, for transport, even for technology and innovation. But I suspect that the money carries at least three meshes in this regard: This “fresh” money, as you have formulated, carries research, innovation, technology, it is also spent on the environment and also on the economy. If this happens together, I'm also willing to carry it, but my problem is that you always serve us the same money again and again, the same fresh money three times in different menu form. I do not think that is very serious about Parliament and therefore my criticism. It is to be said honestly what the money is for what it is meant to be, and not to impose on it, so to speak, three different meshes. Finally, Minister for the Environment: They are in the Council of Ministers, just like the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Council of Ministers is obliged to adopt unanimous decisions in Austria, otherwise the government will not be able to act. – It looks different in Germany, for example, there is something like the chancellor's instructions there. Mr Minister, as Minister for the Environment, you have repeatedly agreed to infrastructure projects which are extremely hostile to life and which are harmful to the environment. I remind you of various motorway projects, especially in Lower Austria. That's billions! On the other hand, the environmental fund is, on the other hand, your slightly increasing budget is a ladder, that is, against this 40-tonner, which simply dipped over health evenings in the infrastructure about environmental aspects, about points of view. That's why our basic criticism is: They have too little backbone on key financial infrastructure issues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53927	Mr Eßl has now been referred to. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e53949	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I start with the question: Which country of the world would you like to live, live, work or make a holiday? – I say to you: in Austria! And it has a good reason why it is. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The farmers manage this land throughout the land, sustainable and so that we all feel comfortable. As a responsible politician, we have the task of ensuring that this can continue to be the case in the future. I am now coming to the budget and to Mr Gaßner, who repeatedly tries to put farmers' direct payments in the social corner: Justice and fairness in the distribution of funding. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Is that bad?]] – Of course, justice and fairness belong. But only a small part of these direct payments that farmers receive are actually promotions and rightly fall under this term. Most of the direct payments made to farmers are based on the principle of performance and consideration. Farmers do not need gifts, farmers do not want to be beneficiaries of social assistance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] No, if they participate in the environmental programme, they will do a job. They have less income and they have an extra burden. And the payments they receive for them are not social benefits. Or do you want to claim that all employees of the federal government are being funded in total in Austria with €9 billion per year? – No, these people also provide benefits and thereby get their money. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Farmers provide services. It is first of all high-quality foods that they produce. There it is relatively simple: Supply and demand. The consumer pays the price for these foods. In fact, we have the problem that in total the Austrians today spend only more than 13, 14 percent of income for food and drink. In 1970 it was still about 30 percent. The second part of these benefits are environmental benefits. They have to go over public budgets, and we have to take care of them. I think this budget has done quite well. If you take only rural development, you can see that €345 million is foreseen in the 2007 budget. We trigger that, including the EU's national benefits and benefits, €1 142 million will come to the farmers. That's, I think, a good thing. Mr Federal Minister, I should like to thank you very much for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is also important in so far as this means jobs: around 200 000 jobs among farmers and twice as many in the downstream and downstream areas. Overall, this is a good budget for Austria, for the farmers in Austria and for the people in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54010	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Haimbuchner. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54032	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr Grillitsch began his speech as follows: It is gratifying to be here as a farmer's representative. Well, I ask Mr Grillitsch – he is not present right now – which is a pleasure that over the last 15 years 90 000 farmers have left their yard under the responsibility of the ÖVP. What's pleasing about that? – I would like to know! Unfortunately, he's not here now. He probably has no answer. Where is there a cry from the peasants in this regard? I would expect this here in the back of the ÖVP. They are sitting here in Parliament and are responsible for this disastrous development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can only quote the Soletti motto: You've always been there. You've always been there! You have to answer that! Unlike those farmers, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP who have to lock their farms, you have a good income, don't have to fight day by day in every weather for your survival. Yes, you can be a farmer's representative here. are pleased that you are running the Federal Farm Policy, but you are not pursuing an agricultural policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You don't run agricultural policy, you always confuse it. They always confuse agricultural policy with farm policy, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. With this comparison you have to stop once. From the present double budget is not at all recognizable where you really encounter the farmer's death. Look, dear peasants from the ÖVP, you face the death of the farmer by the fact that many of you leased your own farm and then became chief executives or here parliamentarians. That's how you meet the farmer's death! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then let me tell you something: Not everyone can marry an industrial daughter. That is not the way to deal with the problem. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] They're always talking about sustainability. I can no longer hear this word “sustainability”, this new word of the ÖVP. What is sustainable with you is the farmer's death that you have been responsible for over the last 15 years! That is the only thing that is sustainable! There's nothing going on about broadband discussions in the country – I'm telling you that – if you don't solve the core of the matter. For decades, one has patiently watched from the ÖVP how the price-cost shear has constantly opened up to the disfavor of the peasantry. There has been a slight increase in producer prices over decades in our production resources, commercial goods, seeds, machinery investments, but also taxes and taxes. There is only a brief mention of the increase in mineral oil tax. You decided to do that, too. The result of this missing policy is terrifying: More than 90,000 farmers – I have mentioned it several times – have left their farm in the last 15 years. And the farmer's death continues. We are already only about 181 000 farms, of which about 60 percent are by-catch farmers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] The only concept that the government has to offer here is a consistent promotion of large businesses; and on the other hand, the so-called combination of employment, the withdrawal into the acquisition – and not the family-structured farm, as we demand from the Freedom Party. However, acquisition means exercising two occupations in order to survive at all, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. This brings enormous additional burden to the farmers who do not have Sundays and holidays, but the burden on women, for the farmers, is much greater. The health status of these women speaks a very clear language. That's what I'm asking myself: Where is the gender approach in this budget? You have to explain that to me! Where are you doing something for the farmers, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP? I would like to know that once! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] There is nothing to be done if any of you here make the call: “Paragraphendoctor!”, or whatever. – We take the problems seriously, you obviously can no longer argue objectively. But I can tell you one more thing: If one looks at the administrative burden of farmers, then one must have studied law in the near future, because, as a PhD lawyer, one sometimes does not even know one another. Your chamber officials are only more familiar with this. I have the feeling that this administrative burden, this complication, has only been created for the chamber officials may at all retain their functions and have a right of existence. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It seems that the black politicians responsible are not at all trying to find a way out of the crisis. Unfortunately, this agricultural budget will continue to accelerate the decline in domestic agriculture. That is why we will not vote in favour of this budget by the Freedom Party. We liberals will continue to fight for the free farmers. As we know: Lives the farmer, lives the land. – And we will continue to follow this approach. Mr. Federal Minister, you are always referred to as Minister of Life. This may apply to your personal attitude, which may apply to your lifestyle, but in connection with the death of the farmer, the term “death minister” would rather be justified.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54168	It has now informed Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54189	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A highly interesting debate on agriculture and the environment, which I believe should be based on objective criteria and not on life and death. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] One can be of different opinion on what measures are appropriate – including from different points of interest, that is legitimate – but I think it is unquestionably so that Austria strives to adopt a reasonable agricultural and climate strategy. This is not easy with the challenges we face. You know very well that in our climate policy, we are very much affected by the fact that legislation at European level is not the way we imagine it. One of the major causes of CO2 is traffic, with very strong transit: 26 percent of CO2 emissions come from transport alone. Of course, the existing Road Costs Directive prevents us from demanding reasonable tolls for trucks because at least environmental costs cannot yet be included. Therefore, it will be a big step forward for Austrian climate policy if we manage to convince the EU Commission next year that environmental costs have to be included, because this will result in a different price for transit through Austria and will automatically reduce CO2 taxation in Austria. This will be a big step forward. At least at the level of the Heads of State or Government there is a first agreement in this direction. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Secondly, I would like to point out – without being overly obscene, but: Almost after the European Union adopted a European climate strategy at the level of the Heads of State or Government by 2020, the Austrian Federal Government was the first in the whole of the European Union, which has decided to implement this European strategy for Austria – with a number of innovative elements. And this is not just the climate protection fund that has already been referred to, these are changes in transport policy; these are, in particular, the major investments in public transport and large investments in the rail sector, as this should lead to a sustainable improvement in our CO2 balance in Austria. We have one of the most committed objectives in terms of renewable energy. Austria is already one of the top riders with 22.9 percent, but our ambition is to double this by 2020. This will require enormous effort in all areas. But we have this responsibility, because we believe that new technological means can resolve the former contradiction between the environment and the economy and can lead to a reconciliation of ecology and economics, which ultimately means that we will have not less growth, but more growth, and not fewer jobs, but more jobs in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In her speech, Mrs Dr Gabriela Moserhat referred to a resolution by the Austrian National Council and said that the Federal Government would be sparse when implementing this resolution. The honourable Members themselves know that this claim has no real basis, because I recall what this resolution calls for: First of all, it is called on the Austrian Federal Government to approach the Czech Republic's government in order to prove that all security measures, as required in the Milk Protocol, are also implemented and that the Czech Government should prove this. – That is exactly what the Federal Minister has deposited in a conversation with the competent Czech Foreign Minister and in an official letter to the Czech Government. We are waiting for the answers to be made here by the Czech Republic. Secondly, we are called upon in this resolution to take all available international legal steps, up to an international action where these evidences are not considered satisfactory by the Czech Government. That is, step one, we call on the Czech Republic to provide evidence. We have done so; we do not know what comes out of these evidences. In parallel, however, the Austrian Federal Government is examining the introduction of a international law lawsuit, and as the honourable Member knows, there is a working group consisting of experts from the constitutional service, the international law bureau and independent experts who examine this possibility. In other words, if the evidence is not satisfactory, we probably already know at the same time how we can and must proceed under international law. The Austrian and Czech Parliaments have agreed that there should be an interparliamentary Commission here, where Members themselves can imagine whether or not the necessary security evidence is provided. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] That is to say, it is quite clearly progressing on the basis of the path that Parliament wants to take. We have clearly indicated to the Czech Republic that there can be no unilateral declaration of termination of the ‘Melker Agreement’ because this can only be done on both sides. An agreement between Austria and the conclusion of the procedure set out in the ‘Melker Agreement’ can only be reached if all questions have been resolved. However, as long as our security requirements are not answered, the necessary evidence is not available, there can be no termination of the procedures set out in the ‘Melker Agreement’. This is the position of the Czech Government both by the Federal Chancellor, by the Vice-Cancellor and by the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has been informed on several occasions. There is no doubt at all that the government here fulfils the Austrian interests and the wishes of Parliament to 100 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54283	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54304	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Eßl, in your role as you have, I agree to show here a view which, of course, is ideologically influenced by your world of experience. However, I think it is more important here with our colleague, Mr Gaßner, who, as I do, believes that the allocation of the funds available for agriculture is not as fair as it could have been and should have been in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is carried by us because we believe it is acceptable to tackle the problems, but we should not rest on them, but really keep thinking innovatively. And why the last government was not so successful, one has seen the example of Mr Dolinschek, who has informed us about the drought here – which is all right and right – and as a measure has already called for the resulting damage to be replaced. No, of course we don't need the BZÖ, that's what the government is doing. That's not the question. However, we should consider how we can work preventively for the future in such matters. We need to know that the Marchfeld farmers – and that's 2 percent of the farmers – are the only ones in Austria who have field wells and are able to water accordingly. This is clearly associated with higher costs, with up to €1,000 per hectare per month, which, of course, burdens production, but it is much cheaper than hectariously, for example, how it would have almost happened in the Styria to throw away strawberry cultures, to dry up. There the damage would have been estimated at 1.2 million. Another comment, and this is also an example of how it doesn't work so well with the so-called neighbourhood aid. It was not possible for farmers to normally irrigate strawberry plantations of 60 hectares in such a way as to get over the rounds. There was a ban on the authority, the district authority, the speaker even threatened: If water were to be removed from the adjacent rivers – proven enough was available – it would be arrested on the field. The really good use of Mr Faul has then led to farmers being allowed to draw water there and not to be drained but punished. This is a prospect, and this should not be allowed to happen to politics. It is our common task to prevent such a thing in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54343	The next speaker is Mrs Zwerschitz. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54365	Mr President. Minister! High house! In my speech, I would like to refer to the rural development programme. Focus on the fact that rural life should have more quality of life, that we want to preserve and support regional identity and strengthen the rural life and economy. Unfortunately, this quality of life is somewhat saddened for large parts of the rural population at the moment, alone by increasing public transport restrictions. More than half of the people do not have their own cars. In Styria, it is true that 145 communities do not even have their own close-up car, which means that many women need to “travel” once a week to ride the barrel when they have the family car at home on the weekend, because in the small and medium-sized farms, in small farms, it is usually so that men have to leave the farm to spend every day in order to get an existential job. The strategy of continuing to build roads, as the young colleague from Styria told me last time, I cannot support it at all, but I would strongly advocate working very strongly with the transport resort in the rural development programme, in order to provide young people and women with the opportunity to shape their lives. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What are the specific requirements of young people in rural areas? – Young people in rural areas, of course, want to enjoy leisure time, of course want to continue in the evening, want to meet friends, want to drive in discotheques, but have the problem that they don’t get there. We have an increased rural escape, especially in young women, in women who are educated, who no longer see prospects for work there, because unfortunately, in the support concept of the agricultural sector, as it is at present, small and medium-sized enterprises, namely those who create jobs, are being supported less in proportion to large farms. In view of this, I do not see it as a good development that there is still no cover in the funding measures and we do not try to strengthen the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In contrast to my colleagues from FPÖ, Mr Klement, I am very pleased with the gender approach. I am very pleased that it is now finally being addressed that women have taken on a lot of work in the agricultural sector, that there are already a lot of women who are farm leaders. The Austrian Institute of Family Research has made an investigation into the satisfaction of women, and it has been shown that most women are actually very satisfied with their lives. There is dissatisfaction in the requests for funding, and I would therefore strongly plead for it, especially when it comes to small sums, to sums that are necessary for small farmers on the ground, to light the jungle a bit and to try to discomplicate the process, because it cannot be that these small sums have to be carried out such an effort. This makes women, in particular, dissatisfied, but of course also the men concerned. The Gender measure that there will be an equal treatment officer in the Monitoring Committee, I think it is a great success. I am happy for my colleague Heidi Rest-Hinterseer, who has reached together with other interested and committed parliamentarians. However, we will, of course, take a very close look at how this involvement of women will take place, whether women are really involved. It was in response to my question that women's projects should be supported in particular. I think that's very good. I am very curious, however, whether women will finally be kept in the Chambers of Agriculture, because there is still a need for the women's quota. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As far as I am concerned, and as far as a question is concerned, education is for young people. I do not think that 150 000 € for a total budget of 1 billion € is really not high. I would strongly urge you to promote young people in the agricultural sector, in the country, so that they can really stay there, so that they can find an existential work there and find the training they need and want. I will in all cases take a close look at how the gender aspect, how the aspect of women is implemented, to what extent women and young people are included in future decisions, and I would be very pleased if I could be more surprised at the next budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54436	The next speech is by Mr Principality. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54457	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After Mr Haimbuchner made known his knowledge of agriculture here at the speaker's desk, he immediately left the plenary room. Faced with the content, I'm not surprised. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] I wish he had a better and more solid knowledge as a lawyer, otherwise I would have to worry about his future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Riepl: He went on re-training!]] Federal Minister! Compared to the previous year's budget, a little bit could be done from your site. The budget for agriculture in 2007 and 2008 is more than €100 million higher than in the year 2006 compared to the previous year. Thank you very much for that. It is now possible to finance the Green Pact fully through joint efforts by the Federal Government and the Länder. In addition to the environmental programme and the promotion of investment, the compensation allowance of around € 280 million is also so important for the mining industry. As a result, the natural disadvantage of the around 72 300 farms can be compensated for in some way. On the rural development programme: There was an intensive discussion and dialogue process for more than two years. In many rounds of discussions, all groups and parties were given the opportunity to contribute accordingly and to actively participate. In some very difficult negotiations, our Federal Minister Pröll and then Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel managed to achieve a highly respectable result regarding financial equipment. No other EU country receives as much EU funding for rural development as Austria. Together, in a package of measures called the Green Pact, this was sent to Brussels, where it is now thoroughly examined and discussed. Above all, the envys from other countries seem to have great interest in making life difficult for Austria. After all, it is a lot of money for the Austrian farmers. It should be thought that in Austria everyone gets on a line, but Mr Pirklhuber clearly sees this very different, because in a particularly delicate phase of the programme's approval, he is getting up to Brussels to make a mood against the Green Pact. The fact that this is, of course, very much appreciated and taken up by the EU officials is probably obvious. That seems to be the agricultural policy of the Greens, as they see them. Mr Pirklhuber, the farmer's association is not a political issue. But the truth will still be allowed to say and write! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, thank you very much for the 37 million in the area of civil protection, because this money goes into flood protection! Mr Pröll, Minister of State, finally a great request: In some cases, drought has already brought considerable and great difficulties for farmers. The revenues in the first section – and I speak from personal experience – account for only one quarter to one third of the average normal yield. A rapid release of the feed-use decommissioning areas would provide a certain remedy. In the interests of the farmers concerned, I would like to ask for a speedy and positive outcome.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54519	Mr Pirklhuber spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention, Mr President, to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: first of all, to the facts to be corrected, then to the right facts, and that in 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54543	I hope it will be in a shorter time, Mr President. – Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Prinz has claimed that I went to Brussels to make a mood against the Green Pact. I'm actually correcting: I have assumed my duty as an Austrian citizen and parliamentarian, because Mr Pröll has not informed us in this House of the state of negotiations with the EU Commission. And I've done that very well in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54578	That was not an actual correction, Mr Deputies. The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54605	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! About five months ago, a decision was taken here in the House, which was to document an expression of the unity in this House, to strengthen the back of its own minister to the representatives of the Czech Republic, in order to really put a sign against Temelín. I have made great hopes on the basis of this decision that this attitude will also be expressed in the budget. But neither in the environment nor in the energy and research sectors have I been found. For me, therefore, the question has been: What has the Minister of Finance, what has the Federal Minister for the Environment and what has the Foreign Minister done in the meantime? The Federal Chancellor has tried here to discuss some points. I'm not sure the situation is still mine. It is, after all, about TemelÃn, about a nuclear power plant, which is very feared by the Austrian population. Not for nothing has a million people signed the popular desire. I can remind the former Czech Environment Minister Milos Kuzvart, who said: Temelén can never be anything but a monster, a national shame, a terror. Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you have to explain to the Austrian people the current situation for which you bear responsibility. They have to explain why it is possible that the representatives of the Czech Republic dance around the representatives of Austria on the nose. How are you doing when an Upper Austrian head of state answers the question of how he stands at TemelÃn: I'm scared!Unknown term type: "%s".? To do this, you can only say one thing: This statement is well justified, and it is also quite understandable for all countrymen! It is true that the negotiators who have driven Austria to the EU seem to have negotiated badly on many points. Two examples for comparison: The Ignalina nuclear power plant in Lithuania and the Bohunice nuclear power plant will be closed by 2009, with an EU financial contribution of € 285 million and a total of € 90 million. And what about Austria? How does Austria react? – Austria can now beat itself around due to a very bad negotiating performance with the Czech politicians. The ugliness is that the Czech Republic has so to speak laid a bomb on our doorstep and now still has the naughtiness to threaten us. This is an insolence, and this is actually a scandal, ladies and gentlemen, which we should no longer be able to afford.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54645	Deputies! The word “breakiness” must be taken into account in this House with a call for order. I would therefore ask you to withdraw this expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54660	I will take him back here, Mr President. But I would like to point out that Prague does not want to take note of the Austrian National Council decision and also believes that it is limiting the security dialogue between Prague and Vienna. At the same time, it is stressed that not the Austrian Parliament, but the Austrian government is contact for the Czechs. That's where I've got to say: If we allow ourselves to be offered that the Czech Republic tells us who its contact person is and disregards the decisions of the Austrian Parliament, I believe that this has a very compelling diplomatic impact. We can't let it offer us any more that the Czech Republic wants to bring us to life with more and more provocations in the ever-increasing number of pans! It was only a few days ago that the Czech Republic tried to put the “Melker Agreement” to the files. Perhaps tomorrow even the claim that the Czech Prime Minister was not in milk at all. So, ladies and gentlemen, please don't go on! The attempt by the Czech Republic to agree on the ‘Melker Agreement’ must finally lead to a severe burden on bilateral relations. Otherwise, we are really ridiculous internationally, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is not about any abstract danger, if even the head of state says: I'm scared! According to CEZ, the TemelÃn operator, it is now 167 incidents that are admitted themselves. If there is a super-GAU in a nuclear power plant, experts say that the area around 470 kilometers would have to be cleared. This would be from TemelÃn from almost to Bregenz and down to Klagenfurt. Now, for me, the question is: How did you take care of this? Where are the amounts or funds indicated in the budget to ensure that this extreme is taken care of? Where are those funds for the measures needed? And where are the funds for reconnaissance measures in the Czech Republic to strengthen the awareness against nuclear power? You have to almost get the impression in this budget that you do not seem to have this fear that the head of state has, or you do not take it seriously – both are evident in this budget. Austria is paying in the Euratom pot at the same time, which is 40 million annually. This means that, on the one hand, little is done against TemelÃn from a diplomatic point of view, on the other hand, no provision is made in the budget, and at the same time the nuclear flow from TemelÃn with the Euratom amount of 40 million is promoted. If this is not a paradox, ladies and gentlemen, I don't know what a paradox is! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I should also like to remind you of the following, because we have spoken about the European Union: ==References== In January 2002, members of the European Parliament made a request for a long-term European nuclear power exit. And all those who act so against TemelÃn today are written in the main book: ÖVP, SPÖ, but also the Greens did not support our request! [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: He will not have been in German!]] Finally, I should like to remind you of what the European Parliament adopted in September 2001. In fact, it has decided on TemelÃn three points: The European Parliament recalls the need to examine the zero option. That was already in 2001! As a second point, the Commission calls on Temelín to examine the issue of the depreciability of parts of Temelín as a Stranded Investment in the event of a remission of Temelín. And the third point is to convene an international conference to discuss exit opportunities and exit costs and the possibility of an international exit offer for the Czech Republic. I would have liked, ladies and gentlemen, and above all, Mr Federal Minister, that you say today at least clearly that the Climate and Energy Fund also includes funds for or against Temelín, it must be said better, planned. That too is not possible! In this sense, I urge the Federal Government and the ministers responsible to finally fulfil their responsibility for the Republic of Austria and for its people.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54722	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54745	Mr President. Minister! I believe that we agree that life in the countryside and climate protection will not only begin in the League, but will continue in the country and in the communities and ultimately with each and every one of us, and the responsibility lies with all of us to contribute to this. I am pleased to announce that my community, the city of Imst, has today been elected to the solar community in 2007 in the category of more than 5,000 inhabitants. We are in the leading field as regards the number of solar cells installed. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] So, in this sense, a very positive communication, and I am very pleased about it. In addition, of course, we have some tasks to deal with in Tyrol, Mr Minister; the Federal Chancellor has already mentioned it today: The double emissions of CO2 from transport from 1990 to today are a heavy burden on us. My colleague, Mr Binder-Maier, has already mentioned the death of bee. ‘Been AIDS is at risk of agriculture’, has recently written the ‘standard’. U.S. beekeepers complain that a quarter of the 2.4 million beesticks have already died out there, and this is already taking over Europe. The genetic manipulation is a threat to our region; I would like to quote PRO LIVE here: No human would come to the idea of applying fly spray to his Wiener Schnitzel. In genetic engineering, however, this is done precisely by introducing insect poisons by genetic engineering into the crops. Monsanto has already manipulated maize to produce a poison that kills insects while growing. - Quote. Mr. Federal Minister, that sounds like Frankenstein's lab. We have the great responsibility and the task of examining which world and which globe we leave behind. Let's start at our own doorstep! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54797	The next speech is by Mr Gahr. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54819	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very rarely referring to colleagues who choose words in this House that are simply inappropriate. Mr Haimbuchner is not here now, but I say it anyway, Mr Klement: I have recently heard very great contributions from you and from Mr Hofer to the debate on climate change and energy, but what Mr Haimbuchner has offered today is lacking every basis, first of all from the content and second from the comparisons chosen. I believe that we should all work to ensure that we are interested in content and that we make ourselves fit so that we can speak the truth here and not work with statements and polemics. So a big request to him. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Neubauer, Austria is not a country of the Blessed, and I think we all share the concern about nuclear policy and nuclear energy. Austria has demonstrated for many years that there are clear positions on nuclear power and nuclear energy. But we must fight together and find allies in Europe, we must not make any culprits, because that does not bring us any further. What I watch with concern is one thing: We are currently experiencing in Europe and there, when we hear the words, a renaissance of nuclear energy that a few want to bring about. That is why we must fight together, and we want to invite you to do so today. Overall, I believe that the agricultural budget is a budget which is very stable and which opens up prospects for the future. Austria's agriculture is in international competition, and we must also note that we are internationally required, nationally required, and, of course, we need regional orientations. I am grateful, Minister, that we have been giving regionality a great opportunity in the Austrian agricultural policy for many years and thus ensuring jobs in rural areas. There are a lot of contributions from tourism, services, direct marketing and, of course, also the topic of the “genus region” where we can again score in the regional product rail. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] However, the budget is also a budget for security. I think security is also important for the city of Vienna. Mr President, you are fighting for it, and you are well-known for it. But for us in rural areas, in rural regions, it is important that we protect our habitat and economic area, are important funds for the cultivation of wildlife and avalanche, the increase of the disaster fund, effective protection measures for water, soil and air. I believe that the social issue of the future is climate change. We can only do something with alternatives, with research and development. And the Climate Fund is a very important approach where we can make a contribution in Austria in order to win the market and thus contribute a little to the topic of “climate”. What I personally very much appreciate is that in Austria the money in the agricultural sector is used precisely. There has been a recent study that found out that Austria is best placed public money, that we are working very transparently and that the money is also where it belongs. That proved us a study again. It is provided performance and counterperformance. I believe that it is also important – and we should also see the agricultural budget in this way – that we put considerable impetus on the economy, in forestry technology, in heating technology, in environmental technology, in agricultural technology, and thus in the downstream areas to secure jobs. It is an impulse budget, and I am grateful for it – it is because of how we implement it, how we shape it and fulfill it with life. Good and good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54885	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54906	Mr President. Minister! High house! The estimated total expenditure for 2007 and 2008 is around €2.3 billion for the Agriculture chapter. Whether the estimated budget resources will not be exceeded is currently not foreseeable. In any case, compliance with the budget estimated needs some savings. On this occasion, I can remind you that the Farmers' Federation said before the National Council elections: If the SPÖ is in the government, then the local farmers have nothing to laugh at! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's why we're here!]] Under a chancellor cast builder, the promotions are halved! – I think that was not correct, Mr Grillitsch, and you should excuse yourself on occasion. [[Abg. Grill: He demanded that!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Agriculture is traditionally black-oriented in Austria, but it was the SPÖ ministers who actually made progress for farmers; I remember Minister of Agriculture Haiden. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] As a mayor, of course, the development and the quality of life in rural areas are a matter of heart to me. That is why I am pleased that you, Minister Pröll, have succeeded in making much more money available for Community projects under the EU Leader programme. And that's very pleasing. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Mrs Colleague, that is not what you mean now!]] I think this is very serious, Mr Grillitsch. You didn't take the farmers so seriously, otherwise you wouldn't have suffered the defeat! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But I would like to return to the pleasure: Mr. Minister, the project “Lural Development 2007 to 2013” brings four times more funds to all in regional funding than in the past period. That's very positive. In Upper Austria, the € 41 million is for the Leader projects. This is doubled to 83 million federal and country governments. In concrete terms, for the whole period of implementation of the Leader approach, at least 80 per cent of the funding for diversification towards non-agricultural activities must be used, for example to support the creation and development of micro-enterprises, to promote tourism, renewable energy, in particular for local supply and quality of life. The remaining 20 percent are intended for management. Mr Pröll! The conditions are on the table. The action groups, as well as the farmers of our region, are now only waiting for the Green Pact to be approved so that legal certainty is finally given. Mr Minister, you are required to act quickly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e54994	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55015	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Schönpass and some others have criticised the Farmers' Federation here today. To this address I may address: The Farmers' Federation is anchor and stop for the Austrian farmers! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The results of the elections prove it again and again: More than 80 percent of the farmers of the ÖVP have confidence in the Chamber elections and also in the last National Council election! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, the agricultural budgets 2007 and 2008 focus on the financing of rural development and on the Green Pact, of course. also on the financing of investment promotion, the mining compensation allowance and, most importantly, on renewable energy sources. For me, these are the central points of the Austrian agricultural policy. This is a policy for rural people; 60 percent of the Austrian population live in rural areas. Mr Pröll, I would like to thank you very much for this outcome of the negotiations with the Minister for Finance, because agriculture is a cornerstone of the Austrian society. Many people and families live on the investments of the farmers and the processing farms; of course, many other things in our beautiful country. This evening, farmers are plagued by the drought. I would therefore also like to use this budget debate to ask you to remember the concerns our farmers are currently looking at the fields, the meadows and the forests. I think that this budget can be milder against this, and that it can ultimately secure existences. Mr Federal Minister, my colleague, Mr Prinz, has already pointed out the release of ruptures for feeding. We need to strengthen ourselves in the EU to ensure that this can happen. The agricultural budget will be increased by 10 percent this year and by 9 percent next year. The development in Austria is very positive. This is confirmed again and again when we talk to foreign colleagues about the situation, because the agricultural and environmental objectives are fully financed here. I am pleased with this newly established climate fund, the one from 1st century onwards. It is intended to enter into force on July 1, as it will allow research into biomass, bioethanol, biogas and other forms of energy. I welcome this very much, because I have an excellent investment in my district, which many delegations from the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Germany, Finland and many other European countries have visited on a regular basis in order to gain know-how, as one would also like to build such plants in these countries. Mr Federal Minister, I believe it will also be important in the future for us to have a stable framework, as will the financing of the Green Pact through EU funds and also the funding of the Federal and Länder. I also call for the revision of the market regulation laws to be successful so that legal certainty and planning are given to our farmers. In conclusion: With these budgets, agriculture and forestry will be given the necessary framework, and I therefore welcome this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55082	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. 2 minutes welcome. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55104	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the gallery! I would also like to deal with the issue of anti-atomic policy, in particular with the Temelín nuclear power plant. Unfortunately, as far as anti-atomic policy is concerned, there is no budgetary provision, Mr Minister. However, I would like to say a few more points on the content of the Czech Government's proposals, because we can have a discussion here. You, Mr Minister, I should like to ask you to inform the House about this, since there seem to be considerations in the Czech Republic about the conclusion of the Milker Agreement, the Milker Process and, instead of this agreement, the dialogue on general security issues, a safety dialogue on nuclear energy with the Republic of Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a very, very big provocation, and we should not let that happen. I call on those responsible, in particular you, Mr Minister, to make the dialogue with the Czech authorities more intensive and to hold even more discussions in this direction. There are a number of very, very important points in this agreement. In particular, it was agreed in the Milker Agreement that the collapse should not take place until all security defects have been removed. These shortcomings have, among other things, been identified by an expert group with international participation. We have also regulated: If we get a report from those responsible, this collusion can be done. There is still no report on this to date – we have experienced this from the Federal Chancellor just a few minutes ago – yet the collapse has been carried out, but there is now the commercial permanent operation of the Temelín nuclear power plant. Ladies and gentlemen, I am making this very conscious, especially as the Mühlviertler Member, at this point: I am sending a call for help, a call to the representatives of the Czech Republic. You just have to note that the population in Austria, especially the people in the Mühlviertel, in the border region, is really anxious. I therefore ask you to accept this, so that we can work together in the next few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55152	Next came Mr Hörl's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55173	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As mayor of a small Tyrolean mountain community, I am pleased that you, Federal Minister Pröll, have equipped the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation for the next two years. They've increased these resources, and that's good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of the 100-year success story of the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation, which is of great importance to our mountain population and a European success model. It is also good that the debate on personnel savings in this area has been put on hold. There is no more efficient service known to me to our state than the Wildbach and avalanche cultivation – perhaps the government is excluded. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] For the protection of the water industry, you will be making available special resources of €32 million for the next few years. [[Abg. May. Hauser: Slow down!]] This will respond efficiently to the flood disaster of recent years – thank you, Mr Hauser. For example, in the Pinzgau Mittersill a huge protection water project can be realized at the Salzach. Environmental protection is also great in the budget, as we are supposed to be top-ranking and top-ranking in natural and environmental areas, despite the green calls. For example, 25 percent of the area is protected in my federal state alone, while Natura 2000 areas in the Lechtal and so on – and that for a total settlement area of 13 percent. This means that the protected areas already amount to the double area of the settlement area. In my district of Schwaz – we are particularly supported here; the largest tourism district after the state of Vienna – 40 percent of the area is already protected. For the national parks, Mr. Federal Minister, spend €11 million on this budget. This sum, however, serves exclusively for system conservation – for science, research, together with the countries also for administration, for overly high hunting leases and so on. Thank you for this sum too, Mr. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I see a major problem in the marketing of the national parks, which would be of great importance to the population living in these areas, but is currently taking place too little. On the contrary, in the last 15 years, for example, in the municipalities of the Hohe Tauern National Park, we have almost 30 percent decline in the number of nights. We would do much for the understanding and economic importance of the national parks and therefore for the environment with the population living there if we applied for them enough. For this we urgently need additional resources – currently mainly managed and not marketed. Mrs Schönpass, as you have asked Mr Grillitsch to apologize, I also have a request: Please advise our Federal Chancellor that he is not responsible for the current economic situation and that he should thank the economy in Austria, which has created enough jobs under the given framework conditions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig]] I think that would be a good sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55234	Next, Mr Wimmer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55255	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, In the government programme, we are committed to preserving the various functions of our forest, especially the improvement of the forests must be a priority. We know that more than two thirds of the protected forests need enormous recovery, that there are major damage here. I think I can say that the forest dialogue in particular has contributed to the fact that this problem is now being taken more seriously than in the past. Mr Federal Minister, I may, after They are not always praised, but they are complimented. I was one of those who were very critical of the forest dialogue, because we have already discussed and talked a lot, but I mean, here really nails are made with heads, and that is good! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] To preserve a healthy forest we need well-trained professionals; there are training centres in Gmunden and Millstatt that are internationally visited and have a very good reputation internationally. It is important and also a particular regional concern that these educational establishments really remain at the highest standard and high quality. – The red light flashes, the speaking time passes too fast. Wildbach and avalanche cultivation have been addressed. When we talk about Wildbach and avalanche cultivation, the heart of our colleague Mr Gahr, who is the managing director of the machine ring, is particularly laughing. We know that a lot of people from the machine ring help in avalanche and game building to cover peaks. I say this very consciously: We just need to be careful that not at some point more “machine ringers” than the Wildbach growers are employed in the Wildbach plantation. But I think there can be a balanced way to go. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we succeed – and this is what we have done – that this agency is being set up, where the federal government and countries act in a unit, so to speak, and where projects can then go faster, then we have the possibility that the projects can be implemented faster and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55310	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55331	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! When we leave Austria and travel to other countries, we quickly realize that Austria is an environmental model country. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: No long distance trips!]] - No long distance trips! I'm talking about walking, Minister of State. Foresight and sustainable environmental policy provides Austria with a top position in the European comparison. In principle, it must be noted that Austria’s greenhouse gas emissions are far below the European and OECD averages. Our farmers in the rural regions ensure the positive symbiosis between agriculture and the environment. Organic farming has the highest share of all European countries in Austria. CO2 emissions in the agricultural sector have been significantly reduced in Austria. But no one can dispute that there is a global climate change. ==References== In the 19th century, the CO2 content of the air increased by 35 percent. This increase results in 80 percent from the combustion of fossil energy sources. The first part of the global climate report presented in Paris in February clearly highlights human responsibility as never before. The second part presented in Brussels at the beginning of April shows a dramatic picture of the consequences of climate change. Global climate change is thus a central challenge for all mankind. Building on the good and sustainable path in the field of renewable energy in Austria, the success of hydropower and biomass, the Climate and Energy Fund is established: 500 million € or 6 500 million schilling for the period 2007 to 2010. The government's climate strategy focuses on heat, heat loss and energy efficiency. From the Republic's energy flow image, it is apparent that there are three equally large blocks of topics: Energy losses, biomass and hydropower. That is why it is high time to make more intensive use of the issue of energy saving, to advance the renovation of the old house and to implement generally the demands that my colleague Head has already put in place, passive house standard. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! But this also means a considerable opportunity for our homeland to continue pioneering. Increased research in the field of renewable energy can help us achieve our goals much faster, that we can use more biofuels, that we can use new technologies, convert biomass into gasification and lead it over longer distances, and use it more efficiently where it is needed. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to be able to achieve these high goals requires a considerable team spirit. This is not only a challenge for mankind as a whole, but also for all Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55368	Mr Steier is the next speaker. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55389	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The environmental budget for 2007 and 2008 is in line with climate change, political and content. The hard facts show how far we are from our demanding goals. Austria is at the end of the EU climate policy ranking instead of the environmental model country. Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change affects practically the entire spectrum of public life, so climate change also needs implementation at all levels. For example, the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from climate change is also closely linked to ensuring sustainable energy supply and energy efficiency. One of the top priorities will be to avoid unnecessary energy consumption and to increase energy efficiency. In the case of domestic electrical appliances, in the case of electrical drives in industry and industry, in the areas of heating, lighting, thermal insulation, there are still large real-life savings potential everywhere. My previous speakers have pointed out the transport sector, and there are also important points to be rehabilitated in view of the high rates of increase. Cost truth in road transport, public transport development and attracting less individual transport are just a few of the measures we will be working on in the next few years. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the Climate Change Chapter will show that economy and ecology are not a contradiction, quite the contrary. A good and ambitious climate policy creates opportunities for more growth and more employment, for example through environmental technologies, through investment in public transport, through investment in building renovation. I would like to conclude by saying that: The times for a consistent climate policy have never been as favourable as today. People are being enlightened, they belong to, they are willing to participate because it brings benefits to quality of life and also to their own money. Budget, climate strategy and climate protection funds will form the basis for developing climate-friendly behaviour on the social standard and achieving our Kyoto goal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55437	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55459	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! I would like to stress once again that the budget for agriculture and forestry is rising as it is for the environment, and I would like to remind you once again of the statements made by the Federal Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. If one compares the cornerstones, and only that is allowed, then there is this 10-percent increase or 9-percent increase for the next years. And this is a good thing, because when I refer to agriculture and forestry and here specifically the forestry sector is once again out of control, it can be found that forestry is especially beneficial, although the forestry sector as a whole has little budget and little funding. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Some from the opposition make a comparison with agriculture and say that one is at fairer prices. This attitude still comes from the Middle Ages, because everyone knows – I can take the example of forestry – who makes a fair price: ultimately the free market. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Klement.]] And on the free market it looks like, for example, Mr. Klement, that the price of wood is currently about €80 and below, he was still at €90 half a year ago and above, again a year ago he was about €75. That is, there are strong fluctuations in the nature of the forest owners. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: “Praise ” is the right word! That's right!]] The smaller forest owners can react by acting anticyclically here. The larger forest owners are forced to accept these price fluctuations, because they still have to cover their fixed costs. If you continue to demand this for agriculture, you are really on the wrong steamer. Because here it is very easy to achieve a balance over the cycles, and that is good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The fact that the money is used for the forestry industry, however, shows, Mr Minister, I think you have made it known yesterday or in the last few days, that this money has been very successful in making wood mobilization in the last year. [[Abg. Krainer: There are also markets that do not work!]] We have achieved a record value of over 19 million solid meters of wood that has been beaten; this is a plus of 16 percent compared to 2005 and even of 27 percent compared with 2005 for the small forest. That is, precisely these rural forest owners have benefited enormously. Finally, I should like to focus very briefly on the budget for training and research in the forestry sector, which is also a very important area, and I would like to take out the Försterschule in Bruck at the Mur. At least €3.8 million will be made available for this. From autumn on, there will be this training course. Mr Federal Minister, I would like to thank you for the fact that there will be a strong centre of expertise for forest, as well as research for the forestry sector as a whole, through the support of the Federal Office for Research and Forests. In other words, the ÖVP makes forestry policy with an eye-to-face perspective. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55526	The next speaker is Mr Stauber. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55548	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! We can be happy and proud to be able to live in a country where we have high environmental standards to envy many countries in Europe and in the world. We can also be happy and proud that we can safely drink our clean water, that we have done our homework in the area of wastewater disposal, in the area of waste disposal and so on. Only: All of this, of course, cost a lot of money, and that was only possible because our citizens paid their fees and taxes in good time and on time and still pay! But if new demands are constantly being made, especially on the part of the Greens, that we need to have even higher standards and so on, it is important to ensure that their implementation must also be manageable for citizens. There are many homeowners in our communities today who are soon unable to pay their fees. And I believe that we should also take into account all our laws that we decide in the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] There is again a change in the old-age recovery law. Federal Minister! One should also pay attention to these premises, so that we also decide to make this change with an eye-to-face view and not to bring about additional increases in the cost of waste in our communities. – Thank you, and let us take note of this together!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55584	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Eder. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55605	Mr President. Minister! High house! The double budget for the Agriculture chapter includes elements which are very important from the point of view of the small and medium-sized rural communities, far beyond the core agricultural area. I am particularly referring to the co-financing of the regional offensive as part of the investment promotion of the so-called Green Pact. The regional offensive with leader is turning to a broad circle. Much support can be given from the municipalities to non-agricultural small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas. The agricultural and forestry sector can only secure its resources under Leader if it actively participates in concrete projects. For the previous EU Leader programme, funding has been significantly increased. From 2007 onwards, changed conditions for obtaining support in rural areas will apply. Space – the principle of foundry has been met, and the EU is pressing for regional projects in particular. Such projects require the networking of projects and a coordinated overall approach. Leaders in particular take into account the diversity of rural areas at regional level. For this reason, the programme has also been declared the fourth priority of the rural support strategy. Everyone involved knows that the leader approach can in practice also serve to resolve local conflicts between different interests, for example between nature conservation, agriculture and forestry and tourism. In my opinion, the Leader principle is even the most promising method in regional development. It is now also highly appreciated as such by the countries which are doing regional development for good reason. Real regional policy strengthens rural areas. Nowhere will EU support for stakeholders and the population be as positive as in a leader region. It is good that national co-financing for rural development programmes remains in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55654	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55675	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Environmental policy continues to face major challenges. Floods and droughts have made it clear that climate protection will continue to be the top priority in the future. One of the most important tasks of environmental policy in the coming years is the achievement of the climate change or Kyoto objective. And this calls for national efforts, which, of course, find their precipitation in the environmental budget. The objective of Austrian environmental policy, however, is also to maintain and develop the high environmental standards in terms of resource-saving, sustainable development. The estimated funds in the Federal Budget cover general environmental funding or environmental expenditure. These include funding for national parks and general subsidies from NGOs. Important investments, ladies and gentlemen, because our environment is our livelihood! And our goal must be to preserve them and protect them permanently. Our environment is also an economic factor, and especially Austria as a tourist country must have a great interest in preserving nature and being gentle for tourism. Environmentally friendly, gentle, natural tourism will continue to be an important success factor in the future. In particular, the integration of renewable energy must enable us to achieve a great deal in the environmental field. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55705	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. Also 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55727	Mr President. Minister! High house! Estimated colleague Haimbuchner – he is unfortunately not here at the moment – for us too the farmer's death of the past decades, of course, is a blow to the heart, but you say, fairly, that it is our ministers Molterer and now Sepp Pröll, who have restricted and almost killed this farmer's death! This is a success of our ministers! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Estimated colleagues from the FPÖ! Even if you are complaining of the motion for a resolution by the farmers, I am concerned about the future of the lawyer Haimbuchner, because the farmers I know meet their request obligations so precisely that only a thousand of the requested funds have to be paid back, because the applications are filled out so faultlessly. This is also a success of the advice and success of our farmers. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Estimated colleague Schönpass! The only memory I have of the Federal Minister Haiden is that I was on the street with thousands of professional colleagues at the time and fought against unfair, unsocial regulations by Minister Haiden. It was also at the time a success of the Farmers' Federation that he prevented these unjust schemes. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now stop fighting! We're the opposition!]] It is important that the agricultural budget also provides for € 276 million for the compensatory allowance. This is a further development of mining promotion. We also take the path that this mining promotion or compensation allowance will not be distributed with the foundry can, but will be distributed according to precise and just criteria. For example, it is here that a farm keeps animals 365 days a year. The tendency to hang, the management of the slope is taken into account, the connection to public transport, the internal transport situation is taken into account. And so there are a number of other measures that contribute to these funds – as said: € 276 million a year! – fair access to disadvantaged farmers, thus ensuring appropriate compensation in agriculture. I would just like to say that in the social field too, especially within agriculture, from the larger farms to the disadvantaged farms – I am about to end, Mr President! – a corresponding compensation is made. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gritish]] I think we're on a good path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55793	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55815	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to talk about a subject that is a matter of my heart, namely housing and housing. I can get out of a daily newspaper of 4. April Quotes: Austria is doing too little to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and achieve the Kyoto climate protection target. This is the criticism of the EU Commission. Minister for the Environment Pröll accepts this EU critique. - Quote. Mr President, I think it is important not only to impose sanctions and measures on drivers, but not only to impose sanctions and measures on industry, but we should also encourage the courage to promote alternatives in the field of house fire, to take measures when it comes to the coal industry. to reduce dioxide emissions, or to achieve savings in the field of energy consumption in the private household. I am convinced that we find many opportunities in the area of housing development, and for this reason we again need to have a legal regulation in Austria that the housing promotion funds can only be used in the future only if renewable energy is used. We do not benefit from these declarations of intent and declarations of will on the part of the federal states, where they tell us how important residential construction is if, on the other hand, they use this means of housing promotion for the renovation of the national budgets. Environmental and climate policy in the field of housing has been neglected by the countries. Unfortunately, that is the reality. It may also not be that all the employees and all the service providers will be very good at a month to make their contribution to housing and will then be used for other purposes. Nor can it be that a private rental agent doesn't care about the operating costs of his tenants – the main thing is, he gets to transfer the rent to his account on time, and at the top of the fireplace it smokes nicely. We can't look away from that, we have to look! We must not react. We must act there. That is why it must be our common goal to actually increase the rate of rehabilitation, which has been one percent since 1996 and currently even 0.8 percent, to 3 percent again. – A big goal that we set ourselves there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, in the course of the negotiations on the last financial compensation with the countries, the old Federal Government has expanded its commitment to the promotion of housing. We feel the consequences of this in all the federal states: We have less money available for actual housing and the actual renovation. Mr. Federal Minister, please stop the removal of housing funds by the federal states! Let us use these resources again for the benefit of consumers, for the benefit of the owners of housing, for the benefit of the environment and for the benefit of climate protection! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55878	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55899	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Member of the Muchitsch! If you are looking for an ecological housing promotion model, I can only invite you to Lower Austria. We have a new housing promotion model, which is exemplary for all federal states. I really like to invite you: Let's take a look at this! I am also mayor myself and therefore I know how to make great progress in the compacted housing. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] But now the chapter on agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management. – I do not think it is a coincidence that this is being negotiated in a chapter today, and above all no coincidence that a member of the government is responsible for it, namely our Minister of Life Josef Pröll, who for the benefit of all Austrians, whether they are affected in agriculture, forestry or as consumers, does great work and ensures that no one remains on the track. In particular, the Consumers can be proud that quality food produced by our farmers will undoubtedly retain its quality even under changed conditions. I would now like to make a point which has not yet been raised: wine. I am the mayor of a wine-growing community myself and think we can be proud of whatever quality is exported. The wine has become an export hit in Austria, and our winegrowers and winegrowers produce the best quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Finally, on climate protection: I believe that it is not only the federal government that is undoubtedly fulfilling its task, but also the countries that are required, but also the municipalities are required. There is also a low-Austrian success model: “Verkehrssparen Wienerwald” – all the transport savings projects started in Lower Austria are carried by the municipalities. We are starting a new project in Lower Austria, a daily cycle network. We can handle a lot of trips – especially short distances – by bike. I think everyone can make their contribution to climate change, and with this budget the federal government is undoubtedly making a big contribution to this!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e55963	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56008	Mr President. Minister! First of all, I would have liked to respond to my Vorarlberger Jungbauer-College on the topic of sharks, and above all mention what Bruno Kreisky made for the farmers as the first: I'm just thinking about farm pensions et cetera. That would be its own long theme. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Stop fighting, what works!]] But I am not going to talk to the speaker to interfere in this farmer's hack, but to express myself to the field of energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in general and energy eaters in residential construction, we must definitely announce the fight. The building shells of the overwhelming majority of the houses are more like a sieve than a good insulation. Ecological construction is a little more expensive compared to rule-promoting buildings, but it is proven to be cheaper in the long run, so it helps save money. Today, there was also talk of the means of housing in the individual countries: I was actively involved in the field of housing promotion in Vorarlberg for over 20 years. On behalf of our environmental spokesperson Petra Bayr, I made a comparison on the individual housing development guidelines of the federal states. I already know that in Vorarlberg with God everything is not better, but I think that the criteria for funding in the housing area can indeed be considered as a model – even in comparison with Lower Austria – throughout Austria. For example, regular promotion will be abolished from 2008 onwards. This means that energy-eating houses will no longer be allowed, because the construction regulations will also be amended. In clear text: For houses that do not meet the standards of the funding criteria, there will be no more construction approval. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing is stronger than an idea whose time has come. The idea of a hundred percent energy efficiency in residential construction and old house renovation is, as I mean, a command of the hour. If the Chancellor goes down all the energy efficiency in residential construction – the Environment Minister, the heads of state, the environmental spokespersons and residential speakers of the individual groups here, in fact all political parties – then, I believe, the time is actually ripe for action. Mr Umweltminister, I will no longer make the Rule 15a statement apply in the future. In the future, only housing funds from the federal government may flow to the federal states if these funds are used exclusively for social and environmental housing. Among other things, it will be your task to strengthen both the Minister of Finance and the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany in these negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56063	The next item is Mr Zweytick. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56085	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No question, we're on it. However, I would like to point out here to my previous speaker, who said that the budgets in the country can also be very strongly influenced and that the chief of state and state government should first and foremost make the budget allocation responsible. If it is not the case to address my previous speakers, then just mention the Styria as a play. I do not think that this important purpose is done in such a responsible way as my previous speaker has just called for. Climate between protection and change – the major challenge: We have already answered that with this budget. The climate fund and energy funds – I would like to say this in the old currency – of nearly 7 billion schilling in the next legislative period is almost unique worldwide. This has not yet brought together a state, and I would like to thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's part of our answer, and another part is – what happened in the Steiermark Agricultural and Residential Council of the Government last Monday – that all bulk-heated buildings in the future need to be equipped with biomass heating – and that's at least more than 1,500 a year – otherwise there's no promotion. This is – I believe – also a visible sign of how to successfully implement climate change and change policies. One area that is also very important is this agricultural diesel. Ladies and gentlemen, just from the SPÖ, we very much welcome the fact that the agricultural sector is being supported and supported here and that the litre is increased from 20 to 25 cents – a very, very welcome measure for our farmers. However, it cannot be that the ARBÖ is going to the public with the notification of the abolition of the agricultural diesel. That can't be it, ladies and gentlemen! I do not think it is the ARBÖ's duty to speak out vehemently to the public against the increase in agricultural diesel. That's not meaning and purpose. Finally, I still allow myself to point out the farms in my home country, the South Styria – the sensational quality products, to the unique, beautiful country. In the future, it is also sustainablely responsible to pass on and maintain it is deserved by our farmers. At this point I would like to thank the farmers very much once and wish them all the best. What we can do here is – I believe – to guarantee these people the prospects for the future, too, that there will also be a future for the preservation of Austrian agriculture and thus also for rural families and, of course, rural areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56136	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56157	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, to my colleague. Zweytick: The ARBÖ is an independent organization. He can say what he wants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Now stop fighting!]] I come to the issue of climate change, which is, so to speak, in all its mouths. As far as road transport is concerned – the German Chancellor has already mentioned it: 26 percent of CO2 emissions – there are already first and right measures, with the increase of mineral oil tax and with the establishment of the climate protection fund. But we must not only burden the commuters, we also need compensation for the commuters. They are affected by the mineral oil tax, which constitutes a control measure – away from the road, towards public passenger transport, to the bus and to the rail. And if this succeeds with the accompanying measures, it is actually an effective measure. We must not, however, stand on half the way. We need more money for the transport associations. If I look alone at the counterpart numbers of Lower Austria: 290,000 people travel daily from their district or to another federal country! The Pendlerschicksale: three to four hours per day, 700 hours per year or 28 000 hours in a professional life. That's a lack of quality of life, that's time for the commuters, the families! We are invited to present public transport in a cost-effective and secure manner. The revenue from the mineral oil tax is intended to cover approximately € 65 to 70 million for the public transport of passengers. Here, in particular, we must take the federal states into account that the funds are actually committed. Mr. Federal Minister, tell your uncle Erwin that this needs to be used in order for people in Lower Austria to get to work quickly and safely. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56210	The last speaker on this part is Mr Voller. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56231	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! The Today's environmental policy faces diverse challenges for the future of people. From the first generation of consciousness in this area 20, 25 years ago at the beginning of the separation of waste in many regions and communities about the Chernobyl disaster with an inestimable extent on 26 March. A great deal has already been done in this area in April 1986, which has been burned into our memory. The environmental awareness of the population has also increased significantly due to the poor impact in the area of health, but also in the climate and so on. The alarming climate change, the reports on the overriding CO2 emissions due to the massive volume of transport or the threat posed by nuclear reactors at our borders are challenges that we must face for our youth and for the generations. The Kyoto Protocol, which has now been adopted ten years ago and its objectives, and the very non-binding measures to reduce CO2 emissions are not sufficiently followed by individual countries. Most countries are still miles away from achieving these goals. In this regard, I would also like to point out to you your responsibility in the EU Council of Ministers and beyond, since I believe that these implementations will otherwise only be half-hearted. Although global initiatives and strategies can ultimately develop their effectiveness in solving the problems, as a comparatively small country, we have to act as a pioneer in environmental protection again – as before. I am therefore glad that compliance with the national climate change targets is again the objective of Austrian environmental policy. Setting a focus on renewable energy and increasing energy efficiency are also important measures. The establishment of the Energy and Climate Fund at the level and the establishment of a national climate programme, as well as the inclusion of aviation emissions in the trade in certificates, are also important improvements in the new government programme. Finally, I would like to point out that we need to see all environmental protection as a central element of our political efforts and, accordingly, to be reflected in our actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56274	In part agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management are no longer available to me. This is the subject that is being dealt with. I thank Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. Internals Chapter 11: Internals
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56301	We are now entering into the negotiation of the Inner part, chapter 11. I welcome Mr Platter. First speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56333	Dobar, then! Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister, during the discussions in the Internal Budget Committee, we had an interesting dispute – but very positive, almost friendly – on the question of the proportion of female employees in your department. They have made us in the budget debate, which is not new to me, but for some perhaps also new, encouraging announcement that the proportion of female police women – I say so now, although technically not quite true – has increased by 4.9 percent to 10.1 percent in 2007. That's very remarkable. That's not what I'm saying. Your merit, because you've only been a minister for three months, but it's an incentive to go on here. We would like to support you, because, according to the old rule, “frozen women” is very useful in such a difficult profession as that of a police officer of this female access and has also proved to be positive. Please continue here! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the other hand, it was very interesting: They were accompanied by a total of 78 people in the Committee on Budgets, of which – we then counted – ten women were present. This was a share of 12.8 percent. They then read to us which ladies there are in the area of the interior resort – there are about 30,000 employees in total – who are in leadership positions. That was a very short, concise list. She was really short. They do not need to repeat them today, because vice versa it would be much more interesting: the list of male executives in the interior. You would probably have used your entire speaking time until you had listed all these management positions. Since, Mr Minister, there is much more to do than do on the question of “more women in the police”, for there are hardly any female faces in leadership sets – with these few exceptions to count on a hand that you have presented to us. Nevertheless, even with all criticism of the lack of female leaders within the police: As a Green Group, we support any action you are taking here in order to balance this imbalance. It's not easy, but you have to start once. You could start once by having a female section head in the department, in your direct area. That might be – I believe – a good incentive and a good example for all subordinate departments. [[I should like to congratulate the Greens and the Deputies Mag. Worm and Dr. Cap.]] Mr Federal Minister, the reconciling words in relation to the internal budget is almost enough, because I do not hide that there are some improvements in your budget, improvements in the sense of more money, but the More money is so little more that it is not worth mentioning in total. Nevertheless, you have committed yourself. They've been working so you can't say it's less than before. Well, that would be even more beautiful if now the real, true Low-and-Order party is in the visual sense on the row inside the police apparatus and then there might be less money. In this respect, all of this is still in the mainstream of these developments. Much bigger headbreak makes me whether this more budget and more staff in the interior resort is sufficient. We also point out that there are too few police on Austria's streets – too little perceptible police! I've had such an experience this year. ==References== March – International Women's Day – the green women have made a so-called street action. There I was on the road for 3 hours 40 minutes in Vienna, and I met a lot of people, but not a single uniform. This is not exactly a source of confidence if you move in the central city area for more than 3 hours and do not see a uniformized one – that is, already uniformed: Trambus drivers, “black caps”, but they’re already in civilians now, but no police! So, Minister, there is still quite a lot to do. But here you are an expert as an ex-gendarm, and I wish you all the best. Where you are certainly not an expert, Minister – so far away from the expertise! – is the question of migration, immigration and, ultimately, also the question of the policy of access to asylum law in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] Since, Mr Minister, I get a “Ganslhaut” when I think about some statements from you last week – now secunded by the Federal Managing Director Missethon these days – and what happened in these last days with statements in Austria. And why it runs down my cold back is not just because Platter and Missethon speak that way – can I say that so snapped and shortened? – but because this party, namely the ÖVP, also has a coalition partner, namely the SPÖ, which is known to be the Federal Chancellor and I have heard nothing from the Federal Chancellor in the last days, where at least he would have made the gentle attempt to correct these statements. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This hurts me at least as much, Mr Minister, as what you have done in recent days. After all, there is – and this does not need to be recognized here, but simply to be noted – ministers within the SPÖ government group and also delicate approaches to critical Dissidentism within the Vienna ÖVP: From the Steirer Missethon, let's not let ourselves be told about Vienna! – And they are right, colleagues of the ÖVP Vienna! For, ladies and gentlemen, as many disbeliefs as Platter and Misethon can spread together into the population and thus also spread first misinformation and second uncertainty have long been there – long since Westenthaler appeared with his deportational statements, fantasies and wishes last year. Then rest for a while, and now we don't need a Westenthaler anymore, because now we have Platter and Missethon. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister Platter, that was a statement of the last days of you: Austria has a problem with the length of asylum procedures. You have recognised this – and you have also presented solutions to the public, namely the solution that means: Asylum Court. Mr. Federal Minister, nothing new! I too, in 2005 in Parliament, voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, to which all the parties have joined, after the establishment of an asylum court. That was when I remember in June or July 2005. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Before the summer!]] Before the summer! That's right! ==References====External links== May 2007, since then is radio silence! I have heard nothing more from your predecessor, Mrs Prokop, or now from you. What does that mean? What are you planning? – A key word is thrown into the discussion: Asylum Court, and you want to make people believe that would solve a problem. I'm sure it's not! For if an asylum court is set up, this can only be a reduction of the problem pro futuro, but not for today's situation. 29 896 – a number from Your answer: Re-storage of procedures for the independent Bundesasylsenat! You said in the Committee on Budgets: That is not quite true, it is not 29,896, it is “only” 27 500. Mr Minister, I hope you're right, then it'll be 2,000 less. But there are still 27 500 open causae in second instance! The third instance is not yet included. If we take into account all the procedures in the field of asylum which are still pending at the Administrative Court, we come to a number of 40 000 cases. Of these 40 000 – and this is now something you have told us – 6,703 are pending in Austria alone for more than five years. 6 703 people in Austria have been waiting for more than five years to decide whether to be recognized as a refugee in Austria or not! The number doesn't say anything about the probability of being recognized, the number just says: 6 703 people are uncertain, must not work, have a view that makes them – I mean, I can tell you from a number of cases – sick. They're damned to inactivity, they don't know anything about their future, and they often can't go back. This is the situation in Austria today, and the Minister has only one word, that is: Asylum Court. No asylum court in the world will help these people! Because these people need a right to stay in Austria. This is the group of those concerned, and therefore, Mr Minister, we ask you to finally hold this right of residence discussion in Austria, as it was not only held in many other countries, but as it was actually implemented. Also, I only call very sober numbers. Switzerland 2000: 15,000 people have been granted a right of residence there. Sweden 2006: About 25,000 people have been granted the right to stay. Belgium 2000: 52,000 people have been granted the right to stay. Mr Minister, I am not counting Spain or Greece, because there are hundreds of thousands of people who have been entitled to residence in these countries and who have previously been in a precarious residence relationship or right of residence. We Greens have therefore also launched the public initiative “Daham is daham”. Mr Federal Minister, look at this: ‘www.dahamisdah’; You could be one of the first prominent supporters if you agree with the demand set up there shared by civil society organisations, church organizations, individuals and there are: Right of residence for long-term asyl-werbers who are in Austria for more than five years ; [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] Right of residence for people who are irregularised and have been irregularized by the numerous foreign legal changes, intensifications and different interpretations of the last fifteen years. These fates are: There are people who have spent their whole life irregularly in Austria, people who meet all the integration criteria set up by you and your predecessors and have no right to be here, although Austria is their only and exclusive home. Mr Daham is actually at home in this case, Mr. Minister. These are the political projects at the beginning of your era: You are the Minister for Integration! I can't take this load from your shoulders, because there's no other one. In Austria, the Minister of Police is responsible for integration. Then you will finally work, and try to finally introduce the rule of law in this situation of these people in precarious circumstances before the law of grace and not leave it to the Ministry of the Interior and in the case of the Minister of the Interior – that was not you, that was still your predecessor in 2006 – that say and write 260 people in Austria have received a humanitarian right of residence! 260 versus 6 703, which have been waiting for a decision in asylum proceedings for more than five years – in that case, the naked but horny figures that we face. Mr Platter, you have a great job, and it would be appropriate for us to say that you have failed to do this task because you have only been ministers for three months, Mr Federal Minister. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: And this is excellent!]] But you are threatening to fail if you insist on this path with federal business leaders such as Missethon and his comments or with statements in the public as last week in various newspapers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have the chance to make Austria a rule of law for all. They have the opportunity to bring Austria to European level as an integration minister. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] I'll tell you something. I don't want to stand there and think it's better in Germany, but I want it to be better in every respect in Austria! Sometimes think of the old Chancellor's bowl; he has preached to us here for five years: We're better than Germany. – I would also like to have this in the right to stay. Good luck, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56454	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. 6 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56476	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Maybe a few sentences to my previous speaker; I'd like to say one thing: The way we are going in Austria in this area is, I believe, the right way. We have a very good, forward-looking right of asylum and of foreigners. I'm here with you too: We'd actually have this law, that's with 1. In January 2006, it entered into force at least one year before the entry into force. If it had been easier and if the opposition had been approved, we would have done so. I believe that the way we are going must be to support institutions such as the UBAS, the independent Federal Asylsenate, as well as the Asylum Office accordingly so that it can be handled as quickly as possible. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that Austria continues to support and help everyone who comes to us and has a real reason for asylum. But of course we have to see the situation that only about 10 or 15 percent of those who come to us each year have a real reason for asylum. It has been quite, very important and correct that the new legal basis does not offer tolerance for abuse and that criminal action can also be carried out accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The foreign rights package has been decided here in Parliament by a large majority. There is no reason at all for us today to reinvigorate this asylum and foreign law and this foreign law package. We still have to do this: Integration before immigration. I believe it is important that we offer all those who have rightly sought asylum opportunities to integrate themselves with us as soon as possible, so that they can be integrated into our social picture. Of course, integration includes German knowledge, which means that they have a job, that they have accommodation. Only in this way is it possible to integrate ourselves accordingly and of course in our sense. Estimated Minister! Mr President. The present double budget 2007/2008 is a very encouraging budget. I congratulate you on this outcome of the negotiations. We have already had a budget at a very high level in the last two years. In 2005, an additional €161 million for the internal budget was decided, and in today's budgetary situation we can also have €266 million. A total of €2.15 billion is therefore available. I think it's quite, very important to say: If you want security, you have to invest in this security. We've been doing that for a long time. I believe that this money makes it possible for us to continue modernising and, of course, all the progress that is being made in this area, especially in the field of executive and internal affairs. As I mentioned the subject of modernisation: It is also necessary that we use appropriate funds in the next few days. Finally, we face some major challenges, especially the EURO 2008, which we naturally need to prepare for. I am already here today in Parliament asking for support for creating the legal framework so that our executives can also act accordingly outside. A second major challenge in the area is the extension of Schengen, which is also to be addressed. It is also necessary to use funds to update our radio system in general and across the board. If I may address the human situation very briefly: We have more than 1,000 officials today than in 2000. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] It can still be more; yes, Mr Commissioner, it is. [[Abg. Strache: These are the stories from the fairy tale forest again!]] More than 260 officials – compared to the 2006 establishment plan – are available in 2007. As I said, it can always be more, and we like to take up any support to get more staff. But I think it is important that it not only means: more staff!, but also both levels, on the one hand, modernisation and on the other hand the human situation, must be reconciled in order to meet the great challenges of the future accordingly. One thing is clear: We have achieved much through various structural changes in recent years, so that we are still one of the safest countries in the world. We will continue to do so with this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56527	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Requested time: 15 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56549	Mr President. Minister! We just heard the stories from the fairy tale forest. I think it is precisely in the area of time to put the facts on the table. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you want to ignore that Austria has a security problem not to be denied, then you are really in the wrong world! [[Abg. Grossruck: We're not nagging anything! We're not denying anything!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The facts speak for themselves, the figures show that. We have a situation where crime has increased dramatically. We have a situation in which I do not blame the Minister for having to take over an inheritance, which is not necessarily a great inheritance. But in this budget, which is available to us and which we have to decide today, the Minister and the Federal Government do not recognise the need for any change now. It's all nice to talk about, it's pretty dyery, and it doesn't take note that we have 51,895 cases in the field of criminal statistics in January 2007, a plus of 10.8 percent compared to the 2006 comparison period. Just as in March 2007: a further increase of 7.8 percent – all of which you try to speak beautifully – is a reconnaissance rate that has fallen by 2 percent. Today, in the whole of Austria, we have only a 37 percent reconnaissance rate for all the crimes taking place! Please, these are dramatic developments, so that it is possible to maintain that 63 percent of all crimes in Austria are not resolved and the perpetrators are free to run around, because the actions are not explained. And why aren't they being clarified? – Because there are too few executive officials because there is too little in the field of prevention! And then go here and try to wipe out all these facts somehow. Considering the criminal statistics of the last ten years, one must of course take the year 1998 back; since then, Austria has applied the Schengen Agreement. There are rising cases in criminal statistics: 479 800 cases were then; in 2006 we had 590 000 cases reported in Austria. The number of foreign suspects is continuing to dramaticly rise, above all the organized crime from the East. You just have to hold on to the following: The two parties, ÖVP and SPÖ, knew that, even with Hurra’s screams, they entered the European Eastern Enlargement at that time. [[Abg. Großruck:... also was right!]] Yes, right – but at the executive you have dismantled! From 1997 to today, more than 3,000 non-occupied sites are missing! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are the facts. They have irrationalized the citizens against increasing crime! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly what the points are, and then you go here and trick around in criminal statistics. It is tricked around by the fact that, in the case of crimes, when for example, a perpetrator breaks into several cars, this is not regarded as a multiple offence, but is just a crime. However, if you explain it and insist that the culprit has broken ten cars, then this is explained in the statistics as ten illustrious cases. That's how it works! These are exactly the things you're trying to cover up in the end, even though there's a need for some reconnaissance. If we find increases in crime areas such as road robbery in some regions of Austria, plus 30 per cent in road robbery in Vienna, plus 30 per cent in bank and postal raids in Vienna – if we have a situation in Vienna that 450 house breaks occur every day – please! – then all the alarm bells would have to cry. We can't just go further than before, but we have to set priorities. That's it... – Yes, you're the Minister of the Interior! [[Abg. Kößl: We are in a coalition...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Because you say “not we”: who else? Is the Jetti Aunt supposed to do better? – You are responsible, you have a concrete responsibility here! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's why it's bad if you're impoverished here. And that's a serious intrusion you're doing! In the past, crimes in the field of shoplifting have still been appreciated in the sense of the criminal law; today one receives organ mandates, so this is handled through organ mandates. The prisons are overcrowded, and what do we hear? – Although this does not concern the resort, it is still overwhelming: We are buying that there are more criminals than ever and less information than ever, but our slogan is: premature release of prisoners! We know that 6,000 of all prisoners in prisons today are several pre-punished prisoners. They'll let you go! What kind of a security concept is that? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – You can only wonder about your safety concept. If you also see the percentages that God unfortunately has in the area of organised crime of Eastern Europeans who are working and being picked up here, we have 3 600 foreigners in Austria today, which corresponds to a percentage of 42 percent. And this with increasing trend! It is not, therefore, that this will be better in the representation and in reality. We attacked 39 408 people at our borders in 2006 alone, who wanted to cross our borders illegally. This shows that there was good work on the one hand. But we know that the dark figures of those who did, unfortunately, are very, very high of God. That is why we have also made the request in this House to continue ensuring border security, even though now the Schengen external borders are changing and walking. No, there is a need to remain behind it, so that there is no danger of security in the area and illegal border crossings are more likely to occur. We have had 125 000 asylum applications since 2002 and there are 40 000 open procedures. Mrs Mag. Stoisits has made a comparison with Germany. Yes, Germany has 50,000 open procedures here. A country with ten times more inhabitants than Austria has 50,000 open procedures, and Austria has 40 000 open procedures! It supports NGOs that are of course also helpful to ensure that the procedures take so long. Then there are situations that we have asylum seekers, who have deliberately given false names, have given us false birth data and false countries of origin, who even spend five years and longer in our country as asylum seekers, although they have also become criminalised several times. There is no longer any Austrian who understands what cannot be done by our laws if these rulers continue to go through here as asylum seekers and if they are not pushed off in such very clearly committed crimes and violations of law. This is precisely what it is all about, and that is why we want to have faster procedures in this area at last. We want asylum seekers, when they are trying to abuse asylum law, to be finally postponed and not, as up to now, simply to stay in the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] How does the government react? – Well, practically not at all. It is clear from the budget: Compared to the year 2006, a plus of €20 million has been made possible for the interior resort and is proud of the chest. 20 million € more are there, a greater increase there is not compared to 2006. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] If you compare 2008 with the year for which we see expenditure of € 2 142 million in the budget, you can expect that this will be less than in 2007. It will then be reduced by €8.7 million compared to 2007. There are no structural changes possible, as it is only possible to maintain the administration and the previous performance half-way. Please, look. Once again, they enter the Commissioners, the guards, how the officials complain and are finished because of the current development: more and more administrative tasks that they are overshadowing; and fewer and fewer executive officials who can be on the road outside! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There you just have to hold on to the fact that the executive is actually saved to death. At the moment, we have a situation – because you have talked about staffing – that approximately 2 500 planning posts are not re-occupied. ==References== In March 2007, an executive retired, a police student who needs two years of training will only be admitted, and for two years during this training, of course, the planning site is not to be occupied. That means we have a need to catch up here: We now have to take in massive police students to make up for what has gone wrong in recent years. This is precisely the area when we note that from 2005 to 2006, more than 950 planning posts have been dismantled and we have fewer than 3,000 officials in the period 1997 and 2007. That's to be fixed: There were 31 504 planning sites in 1999, and today there are... [[Abg. Where?]] In the entire executive, federal police and federal army area! Today, we have fewer than 3,000 planning sites. [[Abg. Kößl: You have to keep it apart!]] They negate this and try to represent it as false. It's right! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That is exactly what it is, and the metro newspaper “Today” writes that we have exactly in the field of comparative figures from the last decades for the field of Vienna. There's a blatant crime increase at all! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But the Federal Government, which is responsible for this, has been reduced by up to 40 percent from the Minister of the Interior in the last decades – well-known in the subway newspaper – by up to 40 percent, over decades. Today, we have almost 40 percent less executive officials in Vienna during the comparative period of 50 years ago, although there were only half as many crimes reported at the time. That's where you have to wonder about your safety concept. And then you don't need to be surprised when we go towards American conditions and when the citizens are rightly afraid because they are abandoned. That's exactly what it's all about. But I also say one thing to you, because here came the proposal of the EIA to the 2008 European Championship, which the Minister of the Interior has made the “grandiose” proposal, we should incarcerate preventive citizens so that nothing happens: It is certainly not worthy of a rule of law to arrest any citizen preventively before they have committed an act! On the other hand, we will speak freely. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kößl:... false representation of what you are doing!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I now make statements by the Minister of the Interior Günther Platter, who said – I quote –: Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. Our task and our mission is to continue to do so. – This is what the Federal Minister Platter said on 29 October. ==References== And on top of that: Compared with the comparison months of January 2006 to 2007, the increase in the reported offences could be reduced to only 7.8 percent, i.e. an improvement of almost 3 percent compared to the previous months. Just these quotes prove that Minister Platter does not take matters seriously at all and does not realize that other steps are necessary here! Today we have 1,700 crimes a day in Austria, 70 per hour, at least one crime every minute. Then go here and say, It's all so classic, it's so great. – This is not the responsibility it needs in this security area! If so, the Minister of State in a quote from the 10th century. In April 2007, the figures presented show that the measures taken by the executives have an impact, and it explores the real developments. Documented he explores the real developments! Unfortunately, there are many developments of God that can be seen very, very critically and that we are also very critical today, up to a pipe bomb attack in front of a FPÖ office, in front of a FPÖ office in Vöcklabruck in Upper Austria. There a compensation command was called; a compensation command took the pipe bomb in custody there and led it to Vienna to disintegrate it. And for a week, the Ministry of the Interior does not find it worth informing the official liberal authorities, discussing security measures and ultimately ensuring security. [[Federal Minister Platter: That's not true!]] This is a scandalous act that basically makes the Minister of the Interior mature! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Federal Minister Platter: That's not true!]] I say this in this clarity: Therefore, please do not go that you can put pipe bombs in front of FPÖ federal offices or in front of FPÖ locals, and no one is interested in this Republic. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then there's a news lock that's been pronounced. There is simply a negligent act and a cover-up. After a week you go here and say that a supposedly sprungable pipe bomb should have been just an attack – although officials of the compensation service have very probably told us that explosives were associated with this pipe bomb! We are already aware of a lot of cover-up when I get information – one is known to everyone, the other is not, I will make it known today – that already on 12. On 3 March 2007, the APA reported that a pipe bomb was deposited in the downtown garage in Wels. There was also a document, there was a small paper with the demand for Amnesty for the members of the German Rote-Armee Group. It quickly became apparent that it was an attack because the compensation service – and that's what all professionals say – knows within an hour whether it's a sharp pipe bomb or an attack. In the Vöcklabruck case, you don't want to have known anything for a week and you can't have it out? – Unique circumstance that you have to light! Mr Platter, I have some questions to ask you: Is it true that two persons, a Mr. Harald K., 26 years old, and a Karl T., were arrested in connection with several pipe bombs and are currently in detention in Korneuburg? Is it true that the two persons sitting in U-port have already made several pipe bombs in an apartment in Schwechat in November to December 2006 and then carried out samples in Himberg and in Gänserndorf? Is it true that these two people who are now in U-port are sitting at night on 1. January 2007 in the SCS in front of the Kettner arms business have positioned a pipe bomb, with luckily no explosion has taken place and they have not been able to come to illegal weapons in order to put their politically motivated – as rumors say – actions? [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Is it true that these two persons were accidentally caught as part of a check by executive officials and then a functional flamethrower was found during a house search, three functional and sprung pipe bombs were found, three were not sprungable and two sprung parts of pipe bombs were found? Mr Platter, is it true that other people who are suspected of doing so are on their feet? Do you think it is possible that there can be a connection with this environment of the perpetrators in these pipe bomb attacks, in which the attempted pipe bomb attack in front of the FPÖ office office in Vöcklabruck? Is it true and correct that the main perpetrator, who was arrested, should be a member of the Socialist Youth and SPÖ, according to his own statement and statement? And is it true that the media is not being made public? These questions are already important to us, because they also show that there is a lot that is happening here that is obviously to be kept away from the public. And that's why I'm saying: Thus, one cannot guarantee security in this country, so one cannot deal with pipe bomb attacks and simply go to the agenda if one acts so irresponsibly on this issue as in Vöcklabruck and does not contact the corresponding leaders also of the Freedom Party in order to sit down with them to discuss measures. And if one is obviously not prepared to deepen the investigations, to follow this causa to a large extent and to reach out as quickly as possible, then that is something you simply can't let go through like that. That is why we are making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] We fail to trust you because you do not recognise security deficits because you are not ready to finally provide for the training of more police students and to ensure the occupation of the planning stations. Rather, you are even making a reduction in overtime, you are sleeping this problem, and you have been clearly scandalous even in the case of pipe bomb attacks with the information. All these are things that can't be let go through so easily, and that's why we've also brought this distrust request today. We would like to inform you here as well: As a responsible Minister of the Interior, security policy in Austria is certainly not possible!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56827	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Vilimsky, has been properly tabled and is therefore fully supported. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e56989	Mr Parnigoni is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57011	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Strache, among other things, has also said that there is not enough training at the police. I can tell you that more than 800 young people are currently in training with the police and therefore are constantly being taken care of to create a pension. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Too little! Just too little! To be a multiple too little!]] They also mentioned that, for example, the number of crimes committed by foreigners is rising. I can also tell you that the number of crimes by foreigners has fallen from 28.9% to 28 percent. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] It's small, but it shows a tendency. And then I can also tell you, Mr Mayerhofer, that, for example, citizens from Germany are quite far ahead in these statistics, because, among other things, the traffic offences are also taken into account. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then the world is all right!]] So your representation is not quite correct, and it is again an attempt to represent your xenophobicity. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that this budget is one that is going a new way. For the first time in many years, we have more than 3 percent of the total budget. This is a clear improvement. It is also gratifying that in 2007 and 2008, as the Federal Minister presented in an interview in the “NÖN” we have no reduction in staff. However, I would like to maintain – and I must not forget that, and this also affects Minister Platter – that, of course, we still have to bear on the Strasser heritage. The savings already mentioned by some 3,000 executive officials and, above all, the uncertainty caused by this carousel of the last few years by Strasser have not been fixed from today to tomorrow. There is therefore, Minister of State Platter – and I should like to say this clearly – a central task, which also presents us with the Government Convention, namely the evaluation of the police reform. This reform has now taken place three years ago, and we now have the opportunity to see if the pooling of the guards has brought the necessary efficiency to the executive. We will have to look at the service time systems carefully, and we will also have to consider how much gross service time the new universal politician really spends on the street. And there I am a little worried, because many discussions with executive officials show me that they are very much burdened by file processing, research and administrative work. There is a small police department in Austria where the records are made, after which only 17 percent of the police working time is actually spent in the field. In this respect, I believe, it is also necessary to note that the different situations between agglomerations and rural areas must be taken into account in the evaluation of the 2004 reform. This evaluation is also necessary because in turn we need motivated police officers – as a security partner for the population and above all for the protection of the population. The challenge of 2008 with the European Championship has already been addressed. Here the motto “No chance the Hooligans, but warmly welcome all football fans from all over the world! ” I think the police's motto is the right one. Here it will be useful to try to get the foreign Hooligans under control already in the home country with the appropriate measures. However, in all the measures we are pre-emptive, we must be careful not to shoot at the goal and above all do not violate data protection and other human rights principles. I am convinced that this government will create a meaningful catalogue of measures to ensure safe games. The major challenge of 2008 will be the case of the Schengen border. This will be a matter of ensuring that there is a meaningful division of the planning sites. It must be noted that, on the one hand, in the border area, where more than 2 600, almost 3,000 police officers are currently securing the border, a corresponding part of it provides the necessary security. On the other hand, the corresponding social components must be taken into account in all cases, because you must not forget that these police officers have settled in the border area over the past 15 years, have built a house, founded a family, which cannot be moved from one day to another into another area. Here generous transitional periods must be negotiated with the staff representative. I believe that if there is a possibility of using the planning sites where they are urgently needed, you will still have to use them. Here Vienna is one of those municipalities, cities that urgently need staff. I can tell you that currently in Vienna there are 770 police officers on the day 550 on the outside; at night 470 police are on duty, 350 of them in the field. If I now say that Vienna has 400 square kilometres, this is already a very thin security of the area. That is why, I think, the mayor of Vienna is right if he demands a massive increase in police forces in Vienna. I believe that this is also a call for support. It is certain that the solution to the question of how to move the Schengen border must always look at the social balance of the measures. On foreign law, only a few sentences will be made; my colleagues will still comment on this. We have heard about 38 000 – 37 600 – cases of ongoing asylum procedures. Over 15 000 have been running for more than three years and are not done. That is a rather unsatisfying state. This is also a situation that is burdening taxpayers, not a question, and I believe that it is necessary here, too, to proceed with the process of putting the asylum court into effect very quickly, on the one hand, and the Federal Minister has promised that this will be done very quickly, of course he has our full support, not at all. On the other hand, I would also recommend that, in particular, those cases, namely the 423 cases which have been initiated before 1998 and which have not yet been completed, come up with a solution which may be contrary to the considerations of a colleague named Missethon, but where, I believe, we should think of the general amnesty. This is a matter that you yourself have in your decision. I think if it happens according to clear guidelines: full integration, impunity and a commitment to Austria, then one could react quite quickly and humanly in these 400 cases. I also hope that the ten officials you have been promised from Lower Austria are already in service and are very much in support of the task. I like it very much when that happens. I hope so. I’m less pleased when the Lower Austrian head of state chooses the following division in the “crone” – I quote it –: He finally got the nose full of the overdue asylum procedures, says Pröll and demands that the competent minister finally make his officials his legs. – So I think that’s a division that doesn’t belong to a head of state. I am convinced that the Minister can motivate his officials accordingly and that the officials of the house, whether police or police or asylum Senate, in the UBAS, wherever, give the best and therefore also ensure that security is guaranteed in this country. You, Mr Minister, certainly have our support in the projects I have listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57072	Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler is next spoken. You've done 10 minutes of speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57093	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Very briefly to the Lord. Mr Parnigoni: If you come out here and send the wish of the mayor of Vienna for more police, I ask you: Why don't you do it? You are in the government, you represent the Federal Chancellor, the head of government – then finally do it! We need more police in Vienna. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But don't support – do it! Sleeve on and make sleeves! We all agree that we need that. To my colleague Mr Strache very briefly: I have a different access. Let's remember the nineties, that's what happened again and again: Doubtful packages, packerl, pipe bomb attacks, threats, murder threats, everything has been possible. We have just never put this on the big bell, because I simply believe that those who send it, those left madmen who send it – that comes from the direction – are just waiting for it. They want exactly that. They want staging, they want media attention. That's why you also put a pack in Upper Austria in front of the door, which was always inside. It is, however, – I would say that already – strange if you need a week to investigate, until you know what's inside; if that was so. I don't know, I didn't play Nick Knatterton, not private detective, but if it was, it's weird. On the other hand, this is no reason for us to distrust the Minister of the Interior, because we believe that it is precisely the meaning and purpose of what they want. Do you know who is the first person to applaud when a mistrust application is filed against the Minister of the Interior? – Exactly the sender of this pack, exactly the left sender of these pipe bombs. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How can you make such claims?]] That is why it is not appropriate and it is too late to distrust the Minister. We shall therefore vote against this motion for a resolution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We believe that there is enough criticism on the content, which we must practice against the Minister and which we also want to discuss very objectively. The objective figures have often been mentioned today – perhaps you, Mr Minister, already have the latest figures from April, since there is already May, it could be; we still have the old ones: On average, we have an increase of 8 percent in crime, 70 crimes per hour. It is therefore not the case that we can say – including Mr von der ÖVP’s colleague – that we are such a safe country. Yes, compared to some South American military dictatorships, we are really a safe country, even in Europe we are relatively safe, but what do the people who are robbed of the apartment that the car is stolen or who are being attacked? When they hear this, they feel embarrassed. That is why we have to accept the security problem we have – and it is an obvious one at the moment. 70 crimes per hour and – not 450 – 20 per day per day on average, which is clearly too much. [[Abg. Street: It's 20 per district! 20 flats per day are robbed per district!]] You have to do something about it. At the same time, the education rate is falling. Drug crime, addiction crime is a huge problem that is increasingly moving to the immediate vicinity of Vienna. In Niederösterreich, for example in Baden, in Wiener Neustadt, we have terrifying numbers of details from criminal statistics, especially as to what is happening to the addiction crime. We need to take a closer look at them. At the same time – which results from it – it is clear that people no longer have the sense of security they once had. There has been a large survey – you will know it, Minister – in which 64 percent of people in Austria have expressed the greatest concern about crime. That's a lot, that's really a lot. In Vienna there is an interesting number – as many smile when they hear this, but it is a fact –: Every second Viennese, every second Viennese is afraid of going to the street at night. That says an objective survey that has been conducted. You just have to look at that, you have to take it seriously. As a government one cannot give the answer: fewer police, more early arrests, fewer prison sentences, more fines and perhaps more fines next year – also announced by the Minister of Justice – the jubilee, so that everyone who commits a crime this year already knows that they will be released next year anyway. That's not exactly the right thing either. This is not the representation of the security interests and the victims, but ultimately an invitation to organised crime. Minister Platter, as always out of these bank series, when Mr Strache rightly criticized the early arrests, has also come the criticism and has been said that there is no such thing as this, I would really ask you: [[towards ÖVP]] Stand up here in the National Council today, and distance yourself from this Red Justice Minister's programme for the early release of detention, for the conversion of prison sentences into fines, for the general amnesty! It cannot be the answer of your place of residence or that of the judicial body that you provide for more arrests, more redundancies and more perpetrators in case of more crime. That is what we are against, and we are going to resist each other. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We need more police in the fight against crime, and we've caught the Minister of Finance. Minister of the Interior, you have relativized the statement of the Minister of Finance, who here in his budget speech – I am not going down because he has not done it himself – that there will be more 206 police officers next year. In the meantime, this has resolved in the committee, and you have also admitted that there will no longer be officials, not at all 206, but in reality fewer police officers. Because we still have 1,000 police students, because we have many unoccupied planning stations, we have fewer police officers on the street. We do not understand this at all, we do not want to understand that even in the context of the discussion on Schengen, nor do we want to understand it against the background that even now communities – which is also interesting – are setting up private security services. First yesterday, 2nd. In May, there was a decision in the city council of Freistadt in Upper Austria, interestingly a decision also with the SPÖ votes: Accompanying measures for private security and less noise in Freistadt. That means there's already a guard there parallel to the police. This continues to grow, which will be discussed and discussed in several communities. If this really prevails – I have nothing against it, more security through more private security, indeed – it would be a bankruptcy declaration of our own security policy, and thus an admission to the fact that we have too few police officers and need more on the street. And we ask you to ensure that, Minister Platter. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are therefore making the following request today: [[Quoted print version removed]] No less police, more police we need, Minister Platter! We therefore ask you to take this motion for a resolution seriously, if it is adopted. Even if it is not accepted, you will see this as an aspect of the discussion. The topic of asylum: Yes – everything has already been said – we have too many applications in the pipeline, it takes too long for the asylum applications to be processed, but we have also achieved one, and this is also a merit of the previous government: With today's day we have the sharpest laws on foreigners and asylum, which have ever existed in this country. This has led us to have much fewer asylum seekers, much less new asylum applications and much less immigration. And this is a merit of the BZÖ/ÖVP government, which we have reached together, and this is reflected in the figures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is unfortunately a nonsense to God!]] That means we insist that you have to shorten that too. This asylum court – a long-standing claim of the BZÖ – is correct. Mr Strache and Mrs Stoisits represent two polarizing positions here. They say they're all pushing off, the others say they don't move. We say it's both wrong. We are in favour of a sharp foreign right, of a sharp asylum right, and we say we have to push the right ones off. I think that is what the Minister said: You have to move the right one. Those who become guilty of us, those who do not respect the country, those who do not want to integrate themselves at all, those who commit social abuse, they have not lost anything here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Strache: Why didn't you do that? Have you slept over the past few years?]] But on the other hand, Mr. Strache, I do not understand why you want to move a student who has been in the country for many years, which is integrated, which is the best student in Leoben – the little Sharifi – who is accepted there in the community. Why do you want to push someone like that? It's integrated, it wants to be here, it's recognized by the community. That's the distinction we're making. Yes, we say no automatic right to stay – just as the Greens want – for those who have been here for a long time, but we say, a right of residence for those who have been here for a long time under certain criteria, who have already integrated here, who have a high integration status, who can go to school here too – quite, very important! – and are now at risk of being postponed after five or six years, even though they are already integrated. We also have a new point of view, because we say: This is a hardness that is not justified! There are the cases in Grein in Upper Austria, there are the cases of Shararifi in Leoben – and there we say: No, there can be no automatic right of residence, but in certain circumstances there should be a right to stay under certain conditions, because model integration should also serve as an example as an example of good integration in this country. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are committed to this, and therefore we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a productive, forward-looking approach. We do not say that we are for more immigration. We are for immigration stops, especially in the agglomerations – in Vienna, in Graz, in Linz, where we already have a high number of immigrations – but we are also for fair treatment those who want to stay here unpunished and who want to integrate themselves accordingly. I think that's right – with all criticism of offenders and social abuse. One point I would like to make, Minister: It's always a concern to me, and that's why I'm going to bring it back today, the fight against sexual child abuse. We have 2 500 cases shown. They know the dark figures of about 10,000 cases. I am very, very glad that we are now entering a discussion, in which there really is also a harder way of dealing with such criminals. That is why I am very pleased that our motion for a resolution for a professional ban on sexual offenders, which we introduced last week, suddenly – see! – a request was made by all the parties that will be adopted today. We're very glad. This is a successful initiative of the BZÖ. We also thank the other parties for this. That's all right, because it's right. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] It may not be that condemned sexual offenders eventually come near families, children, kindergartens or other areas. There are some other ideas that we have, for example, a ban on settlement – consider this once, Mr Minister; in Germany this is currently being discussed – a ban on sexual offenders in the vicinity of schools, kindergartens, children's playgrounds, wherever children are, and, of course, this famous sexual offender file that you are now introducing. There is, however, another, also a sharper approach, according to American example; there is that in some states. We do not believe that only the police and the authorities are allowed to understand this criminal file, no, we are going one step further here. We say that there must be the possibility of seeing the Internet as a normal citizen under certain conditions, so that I know whether there is a danger in my immediate environment. This is protection of families, protection of children, and this should also be considered in the sense of real protection against child abuse. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We also want to increase the level of penalties. The minimum penalties for sexual abuse should be increased. I think anyone who passes away with our children has a simple and simply no right to a mild temper, but only to hardness, he has to be punished. Because we know that the children are often affected for life by these cruel acts. Therefore, the perpetrators should also be affected for life and not be able to steal from them. We owe it to the children. We expect, Minister, that we will make a kind of security zone from Austria. It's also feasible. Call a security summit with representatives of the parties, the executive, who advises the idea of a security zone in Austria. Once we sit together, just as it was the climate protection summit, we make a safety summit, and we discuss the ideas for Austria here. That the occasion was given, I have proved to you with the numbers. The last point is the prevention of Hooligans, who has also referred to Mr Strache. That's diametrically different. Here you have our fullest support, Mr Platter, because we have also brought in this idea. Here we call you: Markgraf, stay hearty! [[Abg. Strache: This is the relief of the rule of law!]] Mr Strache, that has already been said to you: They have voted here today – and for me amazingly – that these heavy boys, these pre-punished Hooligans, should not be taken into custody. [[Abg. Strache: This is the relief of the free rule of law when you are calling for a preventive detention!]] In Germany at the World Cup it worked great. There, I think, 500 or 600 heavy boys, pre-punished Hooligans, have been kept safe. They didn't even come into the match, and it worked. There were no outcries. [[Abg. Strache: You must not be allowed to go to the stadium, but do not lock in!]] You know, Mr. Strache, I'm surprised. Your approach to security, law and order, Law and Order, has. Because the temporary detention, this so-called preventative of Hooligans, of heavy violent agents is there to protect families and children in the stages. [[Abg. Strache: That probably concerns you too! That's all about hits!]] That is why you have our support, Minister. We agree that this preventive will also come in Austria and that these heavy boys and these Hooligans will be removed from the beginning. This is actually done.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57336	The two motions for resolutions tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner and colleagues, are properly introduced, sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57446	Next, I give Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon the word. You have been reporting for 6 minutes of speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57467	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to follow up on the comments made by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Kößl. I believe that as far as the budget is concerned, we have taken a very committed step in the field of internal affairs, and with this budget we can continue to work well over the next two years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I have, of course, listened very closely to my colleague Mr Strache and have to say: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I hope you listen carefully to all the Members!]] It was nothing new, a round-up almost against everything that's just standing here and sitting down. I say to you, Mr Strache, if you take a close look at the crime statistics – you have linked this and you mean that crime statistics have increased because EU enlargement has taken place – then you will see very carefully: [[Abg. Strache: And in prevention have failed!]] The longer the new EU Member States are involved, the stronger the crime decreases. The perpetrators come from non-EU countries – this is the crucial point – and the European Union has, of course, become a security zone. You should take a closer look at the statistics in this context, otherwise you can draw the wrong conclusions from what you have seen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You should take them seriously! I read them! That has been the right statistical figures!]] In recent days we have had a very busy debate on the whole issue of asylum, on the whole question of foreign law. I have, in part, already been irritated by the contributions to the debate, especially by the Greens, because I think that a few basic rules are lost if you continue to argue in this way. That is why I would also like to use this opportunity to clarify a few things – I believe that this should also be put out of the question –: In the area of asylum, I believe we have found a very clear system with a large majority in the house. I also think that Mr Broukal's criticism of Mr Platter's Federal Minister, Mr Platter, is completely overlaid, because the Minister of State is in reality implementing the law which has been adopted here. And I say very clearly: Protection and asylum for all those people who need protection and asylum! For this we have a very clear procedure, which, I believe, is very sensitive, with many legal instruments. But if an asylum procedure is negative, it means leaving – quite simply leaving. [[Abg. Strache: But that doesn't happen!]] Of course it happens! [[Abg. Rosary: But that is not so!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! Regular immigration, that is, from my point of view – and this is true of all other areas – Austria, like any other state in this world, has the right to determine for itself the conditions under which to settle. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is not even in the “NO! ”]] I'll tell you what's not going on. It is not – it would be absurd if there was a negative asylum notice, and people could stay here – to derive from a negative asylum procedure the right to establishment. I mean, then we can stop the legislation, but there we bring disorder into the state system. Austria – I say so very openly – has no place for submarines. If someone stops in Austria but is not reported, it's illegal. And what is illegal must not be right – I say that very clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] – If you want to migrate, you have to make an application abroad. I also say something about immigration, because it is important to me that certain principles are clarified here: Integration is for me the learning of our rules of the game, and it is a priority that must be done by those who come to us and not vice versa. First point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: When we said this, we were still attacked by you!]] Second point: When someone walks in, he has three duties to do in addition to the rights: first, to learn German; second, to want to work; third, to register with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache:..., the ÖVP has slandered at that time!]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Strache and Mr Kößl.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I therefore say this very clearly, because I also have the feeling here and now that “integration” is often understood differently. I looked at the integration sites of the city of Vienna: What is being communicated to the integration offices of the city of Vienna? [[Abg. May. Lapp:... excellent!]] I say to you that 99 percent of the rights will be conferred there, and we will not be able to convey our expectations to the possibly new citizens. [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's not true at all! You're fantasizing!]] That is what I think is a complete failure – I say it very openly. [[Abg. May. Lap: You're fantasizing!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (in the direction of ÖVP) In the People's Procuratorate, from 1. July, if you don't watch out, it'll be the same!]] If we want to provide guidance to immigrants – I think that must be so – then we must keep both in balance: the duties and the rights.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57707	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 9 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57728	Madam President. Minister! High house! It was surprisingly short what Mr Vorsprecher wanted or could now carry out on the subject of foreign law. But it's exciting what he understands by order or disorder. Mr Missethon finds that if a state had passed legislation and then wanted to change it, that would be a disorder, as if it were already calling into question the basic rules. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: He didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Newborn: Everyone hears what he wants to hear!]] Mr Missethon, if we are to introduce a right of residence as a state, then this is neither a foreigner nor a disorderly one, but a new consideration that this government can make that Parliament should undertake, and thus the same basic principle of the rule of law. It may be your opinion that this should not be somehow, but that is why it is not yet a rule of law. I would already like to be able to trust you so much in the debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I also find exciting is what you have qualified as a ‘disorder’. They say there are people who have a negative asylum notice. - That's right. If I have the number right now in my mind, about 20 percent of these negative asylum decisions will be lifted for formal reasons – because the first instance has worked badly under pressure. And you say that it would be disorder if such a negative asylum notice led someone to remain legal in Austria – if it were formal errors that in many cases led to this negative decision?- Oh, my God! – You can't even look at me anymore, but you have to turn aside on the side. I understand. Be so serious and say: There must be fair appeals against false authorities in a rule of law. I'm sorry, but the – And it must be possible in a rule of law that if, for many years, we have been legally indebted to foreign debt and in the ongoing procedure, we have to find that due to incorrect legal information, amended legal provisions, bureaucratic shocks suddenly come to a decision after which legal residence would no longer be possible in the future and then threatens a deportation to change that. It cannot be said that you must not change that, the rule of law forbids the government and Parliament to change that! Mr President, that really can't be your serious thing. We agree, I believe, that it is Parliament's responsibility to pass laws on to the majority who find themselves. I hope that a majority in this House will vote for humanitarian decisions, based on Christian values, and thus for a humanitarian repair in those cases where people are otherwise pushed into nothing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In recent weeks and months, it has been passing through Austria and chronical reporting like a red thread, always again and again: Since a community that begins to intervene writes to the minister who puts pressure on an integrated asylum seekers who train the football team they do not want to lose, which is well integrated, to keep here because the deportation threatens him. There is a case in which school classes collect signatures for a school colleague. – Countless cases you all know, because the law has been changed so often in recent years, the rules have been changed and the procedures are moving so long that innocent people with their families have long been integrated into Austria – and you would now come here and put them down under the law! As a green person, we say: That's inhuman! [[Call to the FPÖ: These are individual cases!]] This is unchristian if you want – to the address of the Christian party. That's where we need a right to stay! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is to say, there are two groups, on the one hand, long-term asylic weavers, who have long been integrated – and you have said who wants to integrate should be able to do so – and on the other hand, people who, due to the many changes that have taken place in foreign law in recent years, suddenly have no residence permit, where we say: With a deadline these old loads are eliminated and family-politically, out of a Christian, social, humanitarian world attitude, ensure the creation of a state that can be called worthy of human beings! [[Abg. Wheeler: Do you want to join now, or what...?]] For everyone else, it is important to develop a procedure, the hardness of the law... – I know the subject is unpleasant to you, but you will endure it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] What do you think people who are affected by your laws must endure everything! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Hauser: What do you believe the Austrians have to endure...!]] What we need is a procedure where the right to stay can continue to be regulated. And what the minimum should be is that in those cases where couples or families come into existence binationally, they produce the minimum level of humanity. It is really absurd that an Austrian, an Austrian, marrys someone from another country of origin, and then the person should return to the country of origin and make a request for establishment there in order to be able to return to China and wait for years! – This is your family policy?- Oh, my God! Don't you really enjoy it, at least secretly? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Your family policy is abortion on health certificate!]] That means that for binational marriages it would also be necessary to demand improvement here. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Mrs. Colleague, your family policy is abortion on health certificate, isn't it?]] We can discuss abortion on health certificates elsewhere, but the right to self-determination of women is hopefully not yet the subject of police investigations. However, I would also like to talk about women in relation to foreign law and asylum. Minister Platter!, you are... – Aha, yes. [[Federal Minister Platter, next to the Bureau, has a discussion.]] He's at least physically still present. – You haven’t been in office for so long, so I don’t know if you followed the debate at that time, but we have two serious difficulties in the asylum process, particularly affecting women. [[Federal Minister Platter gives a few hands in the places for ministerial officials, near the hall exit next to the Bureau, sitting persons.]] - That's what he's going to do. Okay. I tell you, perhaps the Minister will hear it sometime. First, there is gender-specific persecution as a fact. This is internationally recognized, but completely underdeveloped in the preaching practice of asylum procedures in Austria. When women flee from forced marriage, widow burning, genital mutilation, or simply political persecution, they do not have sufficient protection in Austria as victims of gender-specific persecution. [[Federal Minister Platter takes place again at the government bank.]] I just call you a number: In the case of genital mutilation, there are exactly four cases where, for humanitarian reasons, an asylum certificate has been issued positively in the past. That's why: No comparison with the drama of the theme itself! I do not need to tell you what the agreement of women who often traumatizes as victims of sexual violence or of gender-specific violence looks like. It should be obvious that these women can be consulted by women and interpreted by women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point on violence against women in general: For ten years now, we have had the anti-violence law, which has been exemplary in Austria as a law; in practice, in many places, it continues to be subject to real needs. There's a totally banal story, Minister, where you can't even put gender budgeting in a serious way – apart from the fact that your chapter on the gender aspect has again been pitiful –: They do not even have a statistics in the crime statistics showing the perpetrators and perpetrators of female or male sex. [[Abg. Rädler: Who do you represent?]] It would be exciting to do such a study in the Netherlands: What are the costs of male violence? What are the costs of female violence? – I would like to see this once, but it would be a minimum necessary for you to create the basics and finally collect a gender-specific statistics and thus show that you are beginning to take the different levels of concern of both men and women seriously in your area so that you may also be able to present a gender-sensitive budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57923	Next, Mr Gaál. He's been talking for 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e57960	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This proposal for internal security is a very offensive and forward-looking proposal. This creates the financial and organisational conditions for successful security work. We are also concerned with strengthening the subjective sense of security and, wherever possible, with the opportunity and the possibility of creating objectively more security. The last polls, Mr Westenthaler, which we, including from the Civil Protection Association, were surprisingly positive: More than 90 percent of the population feel very secure or more secure. – So, the Austrians feel safe in this country, and this is of course already a great merit to the executives in the city and country. [[Congratulations with representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP and Bravoruf at the ÖVP]] The Austrians have a right to safety, on – I can give you the statistics! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I would afford it to you if it were!]] We made them from the Civil Protection Association, not the Ministry of the Interior. This has been done very objectively and objectively. And this is a gratifying result. Then: The Austrians have a right to comprehensive security – and this includes, Federal Minister for Civil Protection and Civil Protection. A few brief comments on civil protection, Minister of State: First of all, we should also thank the hundreds of volunteers in the national organizations, civil protection associations, but also the thousands of workers in the rescue organizations – fire brigades, workers'-samariter gang, red cross. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] These are the pillars of civil protection, where thousands of people travel around the clock in the service of the neighbor. We also know that effective civil protection is only possible if the population, the active citizen, is involved here. That is why I would like to thank you, Mr Federal Minister, for the very constructive, good cooperation in this area with you personally, but also with the officials of the Interior, and I can also thank you for taking over the patronship over the child safety solympiade “Safety Tour 2007”. For the eighth time, we will organise these, and more than 60,000 children will participate in this very exciting, instructive and sought-after safety contest. This is a sustainable child safety project that aims to become a European project. We are on our way to Europe – with your support, Federal Minister. Some European states want to include the “Safety Tour” in their civil and self-protection programme or have already done so. School classes from our neighbouring countries have been participating for years. Child safety makes Europe safer – we are going this way together!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58011	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. You have made a speech of 10 minutes, Mrs Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58033	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! High house! Mr. Secretary-General Missethon, you are of course right... – Now he is not here, although he is so practicing in the debate. The ÖVP wants to become a law-and-order party. It would be good if he listened to the arguments here, because you are not Mr Missethon. But You are right, of course, if, as in today’s edition of the “Kurier”, you say that, as a result of a survey of yours, in Vienna’s folk schools 43.3 percent of students do not speak the German native language. When the “Kurier” asks you: What else should we have done?, you say that one should have thought first of whether to let in so many. [[Abg. Street: Where has ÖVP been in the last two decades? Where was the ÖVP? Not in government?]] And then you also say – even that is not to be contradicted – that what you can see when you look at the birth rate among the so-called migrants is only a matter of time until children with non-German mother tongue are in the majority. – By the way, not only children, because the children of today are, of course, the population, the average of the population of tomorrow. That's all right, but They make two mistakes, namely: First of all, this is unfortunately not at all reduced to Vienna – so you will not bring it together to push only the social democrats into the shoes – but the same situation can be found in Innsbruck, the same situation in Graz. [[Abg. Street: Telfs, Reutte – everywhere ÖVP Mayor!]] That's where you rule, too. In Graz and Innsbruck, for example – look at the numbers for this! – it’s exactly the same! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Not “but”, but look at the chow! They continue to play it down in the debate. You practice playing the strong man outside now, but you still don't take these things seriously. And this is what we keep from! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, I'm glad you're saying it now, but you could have known from us ten years ago, fifteen years ago that this is the case. Good thing you're getting there now, but, as I said, it doesn't make me hope that there's any seriousness behind it. Of course, the head of state in Innsbruck is right when he says that criminal asylum seekers must not be given asylum rights, but I do not know whether he is fully aware of how sharp the situation really is: 12 000 asylum seekers are among the suspects of crime identified; last year we had 22,000 new asylum seekers. 50 percent will be punished! Not only that only a very small fraction has been persecuted even after the Geneva Convention, but 50 percent are being punished! – Now, when I look at how many asylum seekers are being postponed, I think: He imposes a heavy task on you, but it is necessary to do so. I'm glad he says that! Head of State Pröll has now also come to speak on this subject and says that you, Minister of the Interior Platter, would have to make your officials' legs. He only exercises, he doesn't know exactly what the reason is. The reason, of course, is not with some officials. However, he could have learned from you, Mr. Interior Minister, that the reason lies with the organisations and lawyers, who are consciously, not for humanitarian purposes, but, of course, out of a very tight and crude sense of activity, advise the asylum seekers in this direction on how to drag asylum proceedings. That's quite clearly what you have to say. Also on your side, on the side of the SPÖ there are now personalities who approach the problem quite differently than you have done here in the club so far. Head of State Burgstaller said: They can't be here, they won't be in question at all! Kalina went after it. But they obviously don't know the mood here in the club. I remember that a very inadequate asylum law 2005 – I stress once again: I voted against at the time, not everyone participated – some of your Members, after lively debates in the club, were not able to take part in the meeting. They could not vote against it, because the force of clubs did not allow it, but they could not get it to agree with it – as I say again: insufficient asylum law at all. So that's where we stand now. In all parties – not with the Greens, of course, but otherwise in all parties – there is a broad view among some of the members that something is wrong – we have long said that; They're approaching that now, that's fine –: First of all, we have a hidden immigration of great scale. – I'm allowed to repeat it again, you can't say it often enough: In the period 2000 to 2006, 300,000 people came into the country! Secondly, that a means of immigrating under a single title – because the seasonal rate is not; that is only something in itself to scatter sand into the eyes of the population – is a means of winning residence permits here, a completely alienated right of asylum from the original core. In the same period, in which 300,000 people have immigrated – under Chancellor Schüssel – 180 000 asylum applications have been submitted, quite impeccable. This unfair mixture of asylum and immigration has led to disastrous results. - That's the second point. The third point is – and that is to say to you, Minister of the Interior, that you have said this – that, of course, the asylum seekers are not alone in doing so, but that they can count on a strong contribution from our country itself, that there are social and political groups that drive it forward. Otherwise it wouldn't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are, of course, among the political parties, especially the Greens – but there are also factions in other parties that strongly support this – and they are the so-called NGOs, who have made asylum a lively and very lucrative business area, and lawyers who are very proficient in doing so and who, in part, only devote themselves to the removal of asylum procedures. There are lawyers who live exclusively on it! Fine, here we stand now. We know that now. It has already been pronounced by representatives of almost all parties in the last few days and also weeks. Only: What are we doing now? What's going on now? What actions will this insight follow? – This is really interesting now. [[Abg. Oils: That's incredible what you're there...!]] The right to stay is not at all! It can't be at all. 40 000 asylum proceedings are open, 14 000 of which have been open for more than three years. In other words, the right of residence you propose would mean that we would have to grant 14 000 new residence permits at one time. We know what suck effect such an approach would have. We know this from Spain. There, by the way, the parties who have done so are now also dissociating themselves from it, because they have not, so to speak, corrected an abuse by a measure which is not entirely legal, but they have caused this action to lead to a rat's tail of abuse. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's quite another thing!]] Of course it is! [[Abg. Oillinger: You're comparing apples to pears!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Bitch.]] Read what the Spaniards now say! – They are sorry they did this! It was clear that this must look like a bellow in the fire! What else can be? – But let us keep our minds on it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But, Minister of the Interior, just defending this attack – with regard to the right to stay – is too little. There must also be a massive improvement in the condition that is now in place. [[Abg. Oillinger: What is an improvement for you?]] And for that, it really needs the very clear insight: This is not a move that happens in some way, on the side of the officials or the Court of Justice or the UBAS, but it is a completely consciously staged drag-off, which of course only makes sense if you can expect further things to happen. – And that happened too! You could have been warned if you wanted to. One could have looked in France at how to raise this politically: There will then be criticism of the long duration of the proceedings from a renowned mouth – hard to contradict. In our case, it was the President of the Constitutional Court who, in our opinion, did not comply with the separation of violence in Weitem. I mean, it was not in the sense of Hans Kelsen at all, that the Constitutional Court President is very concretely interfering in day-to-day business and legislation. And beyond that, there is a demand from political parties, namely the right to stay. Mr Westenthaler, also to what you say: It is, of course, tempting to say – and you do – that: Well, where someone is well integrated, we will, of course, accept it, but not on the other hand! - You're going to fall! Look Once again, take up the situation or the political propaganda in France! That's exactly how it happens: There is an individual example, a well-integrated family, usually Christian, when it goes easily, the family father at the fire brigade, the daughter the best student, the bub plays left at the club XY. Then the mayor, the fire brigade, and everyone says: They have to stay! - It's that simple. [[Abg. Prince: That's right, too! – That's understandable, isn't it?]] - Yes, of course. But do you know that's propaganda? Then, oh miracle, try to get to the “curies” on page 2 how difficult that is! –, a renowned newspaper on, and then the contradiction becomes difficult. That is, if you give in to a greater degree, then the contradiction is sometimes impossible. These are things you need to know. You have to know that this is not just a sort of process, but that this process, which comes about the abuse of asylum law and the removal of procedures, only works when there are lobbys and groups in the country who want it and who support it. And then you also need to know who they are, and you also need to know what interests they have and where to counter them. It will also be necessary to change a lot in the law itself, because, as I said, the law continues to allow a number of abuse attempts in 2005. [[Abg. Strache: The Swiss asylum law is exemplary!]] For example, it is not at all excluded that an application will first be made under a certain alias name, and then you will thank God through EURODAC that the one – I can bring you a lot of very concrete such cases! – has already sought asylum under another name in the Federal Republic of Germany and has been rejected there. Then he does it with us under a second alias name. We know that. Then he returns to his original name, and we start an asylum procedure again! – That’s incredible! If you open up such opportunities, you must not be surprised. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: They are represented by the Stoisits!]] And it would be reasonable for those officials who have pointed out seriously and courageously, such as the Salzburg courtlor Winkler, not only to shift and harass, but to take their criticism seriously. Something needs to be changed in the law, and I therefore submit the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Minister of the Interior, it may be one of the most difficult tasks of this government. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's the minimum measure you have to do!]] There are enormous resistances to expect. You won't have it easy. But I tell you, and again and again I'll tell you from here: Either you bring this together and you can stop the hostilities that then come upon you – or you will fail as an interior minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58281	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz, Mr Strache, Mr Mayerhofer and others, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58388	The next item is the report by Mr Platter. You know, Federal Minister, your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58409	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, the budget: The internal security budget is satisfactory, because if you draw a comparison to the 2006 estimate, you can see that we have more than €500 million in 2007 and 2008. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is, ladies and gentlemen, a base on which we can work excellently. It is a basis for us to continue the modernisation in the police. I mention the fleet here, I mention the uniforms – it will be so that at the end of this year all police officers will have the new uniforms at their disposal – I mention the modernisation at the control stations, I mention digital radio and in addition the expansion of video surveillance and the like more. As far as the planning situation is concerned, we have around 260 planning posts more than was the case in the 2006 forecast. I can inform you at the moment that we currently have 860 young police officers in training. And if I hear this discussion here, I would like to say: Of course, it is necessary for our police officers to be well trained for two years, and these 890 new police officers will be available for executive foreign service in the next two years. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In addition, I have determined that this year, 2007, 500 young police officers will be added. For information – it was very essential for me to also send a clear signal here in Vienna –: In Vienna alone, 275 new police officers are admitted. If you see this overall package, you can clearly see that we are clearly taking an offensive step in the presence of the police in Vienna and in the whole of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] On the topic of crime development. – The development of crime has been widely discussed here, and it is good that we pay particular attention to this subject area. It must never be forgotten, ladies and gentlemen, that we have seen a decline in crime development – by 6 percent in 2005 and by 2.6 percent in 2006 – and that we are one of the safest countries in the world. We will continue to maintain this standard. I would like to say at this point: In the first quarter of 2007, we managed – in absolute terms – to solve 3.8% more crimes and crimes. – Thank you very much to the police for all they've done. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Only so that the church remains in the village: I have let myself explain things or have the information on the development of January to March 2007. In the first quarter of 2007, 60,000 perpetrators were investigated by the police. Of these, 16 000 were foreigners and 2 695 were asylum seekers. It is quite clear that an asylum-seeker does not have to expect our hospitality if he does not comply with our law and order, therefore I would also like to establish proportionality: 60 000 perpetrators researched, 16 000 foreigners and 2 695 asylum seekers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: Are they legally condemned, Mr. Minister?]] Of these 50 percent mentioned here, no speech. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, I take very seriously the situation regarding the fight against crime and the fight against crime. I am very concerned that we are constantly developing new strategies. That is why I am present in all the security strategy discussions in the individual Länder, because we need to take precise measures. It is the situation in Vorarlberg, for example, a completely different one from in Vienna or Carinthia, as far as the offence is concerned. One thing is clear: we have problems in the area of vandalism as a whole, and that is why we will set out precise measures, develop common strategies. As far as Vienna is concerned, priority controls are being carried out according to a concept that we have developed in recent weeks, and we see that these focus controls are taking place. That is why we are going to implement specific measures in the various regions in order to be able to carry out the fight against crime perfectly. Our police are European champions, world champions are in the investigation. – Thanks again! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In my opinion, in the whole discussion, the situation regarding road accidents has been somewhat lacking. We have, ladies and gentlemen, shown the best balance sheet in 2006 since records. In 1955 the records started, and now we have the best balance sheet; of course, no question, every fatality is one too much. We had 730 road fatalities in 2006 and in 2005 we had 780 traffic fatalities. When I remember the year 1972, we had almost 3,000 road deaths at that time. The number of road users has at least doubled at this time. – This already shows that we are on the right path, that our actions work well. But again: Every traffic death is too much. That is why, of course, it is our duty to be preventive, and on the basis of these statistics, you can see how well it is working here. – A good balance sheet for 2006 with regard to road safety. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I look at the causes of traffic accidents more and more closely. First of all, the unadapted speed is an incredible problem. The second point is priority injuries. The third point is that you are not focused on driving. The fourth point is overtaking, and the fifth point is alcohol. This year we will also purchase 250 pre-test devices, which can be determined within 2 minutes whether someone is alcoholic or not; if so, follow the alcotest. That is why we are going to be able to act preventively here too. These pre-test devices – I understand that – are not particularly popular, but I see it as my task to ensure that one does not resort to alcoholism. Through these additional 250 pre-test devices this year, we will take another positive step towards combating traffic accidents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to inform you of some of the issues that we will have to deal with in the next few weeks and months. One important point is the extension of Schengen. It is good if this Schengen extension is made, but one thing is clear: It is urgently necessary that all those wishing to have this Schengen enlargement ensure that the standards are met. On the one hand, the new EU external border needs to be perfectly secured; we need a perfect safety belt. Secondly, airports must be expanded in such a way that standards function. Thirdly, it is important that these states participate in the European Enforcement System, SIS I for all in preparation for SIS II. I'm going to take a look at whether these standards are being met. There will then be an evaluation in October, and only after that will the decision be taken as regards Schengen enlargement. However, we are in preparation, in addition to the new EU external belt, the safety belt, which is being made to implement cross-border compensatory measures in order to have a further safety belt in order to guarantee even more safety. We want to be able to guarantee perfect safety even in the future through priority services, through veiling, through controls in the area of transit routes. This is our way, and I am convinced that it will be a good way. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On the topic of European Championship 2008. – We have developed our safety concept, it is currently an international Commission in Austria, and today I have presented the evaluation report together with the international experts. For example, the safety expert from Germany, who had the main responsibility for safety at the 2006 World Cup, has been experts from Great Britain, international experts who have assessed where we stand and which measures should be put in place in the future. This report is sensational! These measures that we have taken are just right. The World Championship in Germany has gone very well over the stage, so our concept in the field of safety has been adapted to those that Germany has had. We're on an excellent way here. I would like to tell you that on the one hand, this is about the ‘3D philosophy’. It is important that it is not immediately implemented, but that it is necessary to conduct the dialogue. Deescalation and then implementation of certain measures – this proved successful in Portugal in 2004 – has proved successful at the 2006 World Championship, and we will also apply it next year at the European Championship in Switzerland and Austria. Secondly, we will use scene officials who know exactly what is happening in the scene. On the basis of the report, we will not provide 120, but 150 scene officials. Furthermore, international cooperation is important. I will agree with each EU country that the fans will be accompanied here by the local police to Austria. I will meet a bilateral agreement with Germany – that is already discussed – that the executives of Germany, police officers, will also be in Austria to help because we have also provided police officers from Austria at the World Cup. Thirdly, Especially important is that violent perpetrators, Hooligans, from abroad do not have the opportunity to come to Austria. That is why, Mr Klubobmann, there are very clear laws in Germany. That is, they have the opportunity to prevent the violent from coming to Austria. [[Abg. Strache: But there they have not locked anyone in there!]] Of course they did. Check with Beckstein, he'll give you the information! Of course, preventive measures have been taken, otherwise it would not work. [[Abg. Strache: But they have not been left in the stadiums!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, I would like to say the following: If you do not consider these preventive measures to be good, then the violent perpetrators will be delighted – but certainly not the fans who have the right to have non-violent European football championships. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] That is why I will bring in a legislative initiative that will give the opportunity to make a report for all those – not for innocent people, please nice – violent perpetrators who have already been violent in stages. [[Abg. Street: Stadium ban!]] This means that those in the executive have to report to the executive so that the executive gets the information and, at the time of the game, violent perpetrators cannot enter the football stadium. If they still want to go, then one must have the possibility of arrest, and of course the possibility of a preventive arrest must be given. [[Abg. I'll be right back.]] This is the way the Germans are going, that is the way Switzerland is going – and what can be achieved in Germany and Switzerland must also be feasible in Austria! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a no-na-net story!]] In the end, ladies and gentlemen, if something happens, not Mr Strache is guilty – he is immediately back on the other side – but the Minister of the Interior is guilty. That is why I am going to introduce these measures precisely, and I would be pleased if we were to have a broad agreement. If you do not agree, you will be on the side of the violent perpetrators! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Mr. Minister, these are self-evident things!]] [[Abg. Mr President, these are natural things that you are giving the best! That's not exactly what this is all about!]] Mr Strache, to what you have said in connection with this pipe bomb: Ask your secretary from this District Party Board! Your secretary has been involved from the beginning, he has received any information, he has even been involved in the investigations. – This is an untruth you have claimed here! I reject this very clearly and clearly!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58648	Mr Bundesminister, the statement: “If you don’t agree, you’re on the side of the violent perpetrators!” is on the border to a call for order. I would ask you to put it another way. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's tradition in the house. I would ask you to put it another way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58669	Good. – To come back to it again: I would like to mention the name, but he asked that the name be not announced. It's just not right to say things like that. If this secretary has been fully involved by you in this District Party leadership... [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] That's completely wrong. [[Abg. Strache: He made the ad and heard nothing more! He has made the ad and has not been informed! You even hid that...!]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Your statements are totally unacceptable. It was done correctly. – Only one show is listed here, and that is not necessary in this area. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is unacceptable what is happening here! That's where you've been misinformed by your officials!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I now come to the issue of foreign and asylum. I am glad that a broad majority of this package of foreign rights was adopted in 2005. This foreign rights package is clearly and clearly heading in the right direction. It is true that we have 40 percent fewer asylum applications in 2006. I say this for the reason that it is important and necessary. If we look at the burdens in European comparison and worldwide, it is to be said that Austria is almost at the forefront. In the United States, there were about 51 000 asylum applications last year, in Austria 13 350, which is still disproportionate. In retrospect it is to be said: Before we implemented this foreign law package, we had 22,000 asylum applications, as much as Germany did at this time, but we are ten times smaller than Germany. That is why, I believe, it is important to have an understanding that we must have a policy that ensures that we are not overburdened, because we must not, in the end, accept that of the population. The second point is that, of course, we are giving all the help and support that asylum rightly requires. We want to help these people, we want to support them, but on the other hand, we also need to take sharp measures when it comes to asylum abuse. There is a misuse of asylum, and there will be no tolerance in this respect. All those who need asylum will get it, but against all those who abuse our system, we will have to take sharp measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs Stoisits has mentioned figures that do not vote. She mentioned a number and said that 6 703 procedures lasted longer than five years. That's not true! It is exactly 4 050 and not 6 703. - I just wanted that corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, I am at the end of my remarks. The Interior has introduced a government template on the whole electoral right, and it has been decided. It is about the three important points to choose from 16 years old, letter election and essential reliefs for foreign Austrians. This package will soon come to the vote and I wish and hope that a broad majority will vote. Last point: It has been debated about the satisfaction with the police in Austria. What do you think is the level of satisfaction? – The level of satisfaction is exactly 83 percent! This is why: Thank you very much for the great achievements of our police officers! We are still one of the safest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58756	Thank you, Minister of State. Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke. You know the legal provisions, Mr Klubobmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58784	Madam President. Federal Minister! The Federal Minister for the Interior has claimed, namely on the question of asylum, that there have been only 2,500 criminal asylum seekers. I'm correcting him: There were 12 000 asylum seekers in 2005 alone. The Minister of the Interior has claimed that in relation to the pipe bomb in front of the Vöcklabruck office, the head of the office who made the announcement, was further informed, was also involved in the investigations. – That’s wrong! After reimbursing ad and being informed by an official of the compensation order that explosives are to be present in this pipe bomb, he has not received any further information. No official of the Freedom Party has received information! I'll tell you. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is a speech!]] This is an untrue statement, and it must be put right, otherwise that will also have criminal relevance.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58818	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58842	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Let me begin by congratulating you, Mr Platter, on the excellent presentation of the Austrian security policy measures. Congratulations! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ongoing calls and calls between ODP and FPÖ representatives.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to all the economic, educational and social measures, the security of the Austrian population is very important to us by the ÖVP. Minister Platter takes account of this budget. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. That doesn't come about, and it must remain that way in the future. Nearly 27 000 executive officials provide excellent security and order in Austria. This year, we have 206 police officers in the establishment plan more than in 2006. The Federal Minister has already done this. If one counts the administrative staff and criminal officials, it is even more than 250 employees. 860 are in training, and 500 young people are still admitted to training this year. – I very much welcome what has been presented here by the Federal Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In times when violence and, above all, organised crime are increasing, we also need more personnel and more resources to combat crime. Of course, international cooperation needs to be further expanded. If I look at the figures in the internal budget chapter, I have to say, there has been an increase of €517 million over the last seven years. In 2000 there were 161 € spent on security per person and year, and in 2007 it is already 205 € per person. There is an increase of 284 million in actual expenditure, because our executive bodies need the right equipment to be able to work for all of our safety. 5 000 new PCs will be purchased and, of course, the fleet will be further renewed. These measures make the police more modern and powerful. I also very much welcome the investment in the new digital radio control system “BOS Austria”. A digital radio system that overruns all blue-light organisations can be vital to those affected in many situations. We are making policies for the people, and this is also happening in the interior, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. However, I can also turn to another issue, namely the National Council electoral system. The 2006 National Council election order has already made simplifications, and it has been possible to achieve a faster settlement. The next changes that have already happened to the Council of Ministers provide that the electoral age should be reduced to 16 years. But we have made ourselves particularly strong for the introduction of the letter election, which, I believe, will be very important in the next elections. I also welcome the extension of the legislative period from four to five years. That, ladies and gentlemen, is not, in my view, a restriction on democracy, but quite the contrary. If less often elected, then, I think, it is possible for a government to work more efficiently. In his budget speech, Deputy Chancellor and Finance Minister Wilhelm Molterer stressed that in every euro of our government budget, the personal performance of an Austrian He's a richer. He's an Austrian. – I would like to agree. This statement makes it clear how important it is that we deal responsibly with the taxpayers' money. I think Finance Minister Molterer has certainly succeeded with this double budget. I wish you every success. - Good for you, Minister of the Interior!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58927	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58948	Madam President. Minister of the Interior! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, Mr Internal Minister, you should really consider safety issue number 1 in Austria as a priority for your work, and you have undoubtedly already mentioned the data. The safety issue number 1 in Austria is road safety. You yourself said it was a success that we could now at least reduce to 730 traffic deaths per year. I'm saying that's an intermediate result. These 730 deaths are a sign that we really have to settle the actual security policy where most victims are demanded. I believe that debates on road safety are important than debates on people who are seeking asylum here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] We need to debate more where it really is about life and death – about life and death of Austrians and non-Austrians! My plea is justified by this, Mr Minister, that, unfortunately, we are still final in Europe, but also in the world, in terms of traffic safety, despite the figures you mentioned, because there are still 5.4 accidents per 1 000 inhabitants, there are still 10.3 accidents per 1 000 vehicles. Mr Minister, take more stringent controls! The police who do this are funding themselves. Make sure that the legal regulations are changed so that the revenue you earn – on the basis of fines and various traffic crossings – can be used really to intensify controls. In your native Tyrol, truck controls are urgently necessary. There is a danger potential there, where you should act as a priority. That's an appeal to As a Tyrolean and to you as Minister of the Interior: Let transport safety finally give full gas! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e58988	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59009	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, you have raised an important problem: the number of road fatalities. The last weekend was a very bloody one on Austria's streets. Only: that we are weighing this against other important security policy measures, I believe, is not correct. You can't weigh that up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: I think so!]] Of course, I am also in favour of more control on Austrian roads, of course, as a Tyrolean, I am also in favour of ensuring that heavy traffic is controlled in particular that particular attention is paid to this. A great deal has been done in recent years, as you have said yourself, and the need to continue to be monitored accordingly is beyond discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But to the budget, ladies and gentlemen: This budget 2007 and also the 2008 budget bring a security policy turn in this country. There is no longer any redeployment in the executive sector – and that is good, plausible and also important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the last seven years – and this must also be said – the area of executives has been saved, which the police on the street and also in the various areas in which they were employed have felt very much. It is therefore important that peace should be restored and that this area should be taught accordingly. You, Federal Minister for the Interior – where is he?, I don't see him anymore; he has left, but perhaps he is executed – have said that there will be no more police officers on the streets in the future. - That's good. Of course, we also need police inspectors to do so in the police inspections. What I would like to mention – this is something that we have to record in our federal state, but of course also in others; we talk and exchange between ourselves – is that the number of planning sites often has very little to do with the number of actually occupied places. In district inspections – if you count together – often only one third of the planning posts are occupied because the police are used in special units because they are in Karenz, are sick or are on training. Therefore, there must be such a thing as district pools – and this has been discussed in the government agreement or in the various preliminary discussions – in order to compensate for failures due to the above-mentioned reasons. Another important point in the Government Convention is that the staff level of the Executive should be adapted to the needs and increased if necessary in view of the forthcoming tasks. That means: If there are special moments of danger, special tasks, then can also be increased. – That, I think, is good, and that is what will be put to the vote here. Generally speaking, more money for security in our country. – This is a security policy turn under a SPÖ federal chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59064	The next speaker was Mr Mayerhofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59085	Madam President. Dear Minister! Estimated Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We hear it, we all have it in our ears, we, the attentive viewers of the situation: This budget serves the well-being and security of citizens. Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. [[Abg. Murauer: Thank God!]] Such a thing – I'm going to explain it a little bit more – and we hear the same thing from the government again and again. The government, however, is running a security-political refusal of reality with this budget. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To compare the story, one must remember the Potemkinschen villages at the time of Katharina the Great: There, too, facades were shown in order not to let reality come to them. To a particular extent, this has also been done by Mr Strasser. At present, the statements just mentioned would be much more effective than the Potemkin security villages to declare: It's safe where there's nothing or much too little given. Grand Masters in the positive representations are the security speakers of your political groups, including in the countries outside, for example Mr Gerhard Karner from Lower Austria, who even sees an improvement in the situation when the curve no longer goes so steep up. That's interesting! - Not just! [[Abg. Heinzl: But only the carner!]] But: People don't believe it anymore. I find it particularly unfortunate when a high-ranking police officer announces through a colorful medium that the population itself is guilty because it leaves in the cars any items in the hustle and bustle of everyday life. So to speak, in the sense: Why leave something in the car? Or: Why don't you have a guard, and why don't you have an even more expensive alarm system? That's where I have to say: As I have already said, the citizen can very well expect a return for his high tax performance in Austria. The safety need is one of the most important things to satisfy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Private security services have already been addressed today. I mentioned it before, too, and I repeat it: Your own municipal councils in the municipalities no longer trust your security policy without confidence, otherwise it would not be possible that in Pressbaum there would be nine ÖVP municipalities for the establishment of a private security service due to the high number of insomnias. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] Because the security feeling is always so stressed: Please, don't let yourself be so guided by the feeling, but at last let us follow the facts – but honestly – that the citizen can calculate that something actually turns for the better! By the way: The Witzel politician is also so to speak “died”, which is now replaced by a colleague’s higher rank according to “profile” interview; but this is not so important. Now, skippelly police officers are taken to Vienna, almost like a market attraction or in a circus, and the population shows that there are police anyway. – There is not enough, I can tell you that! The 206 planning sites are not even a drop on the hot hob. Persistence in the police, there are, yes! And the reasons for this are also numerous: non-functioning equipment, the police are partly overloaded, permanent availability in front of normal service, premature service, unsuspected commanding after night shift or after 12 hours of service, and up to 36 hours of colleagues are there. And this is about the health of the officials, and that's why they also partially go out or often suffer from burn-out syndrome. Next point: long-term reform. – Not one of our ranks, but one of your ranks, the Director-General for Public Security, Michael Sika, has said it clearly in the Town Hall's coat of arms: A reform that lasts longer than half a year is at the expense of the company's success, at the expense of the employee! One reform hunts the other. A service warrant hunts the other one. Today everything is different from yesterday, and tomorrow is anything but today. Please let the officials finally work by directives which apply for more than two months! Further point: an unfair salary system. – The police content is based on allowances. The cops suddenly get sick, is at home for half a year, and all the allowances are gone. He may be a single earner with two children, and then he is not threatened by the poverty trap, but is in the poverty trap, Minister. What is also to be said about what my colleagues have asked me to do: Each company lives by satisfied employees. If so many officials want to leave Vienna, that has a reason, no question. For example, if a colleague comes back from the baby break whose family has built up her existence in the Styria and lives there because there are also the parents, and one is unable to or does not give up the strength to move this colleague there, I must say: It's actually unfortunate if you don't make it! I've already mentioned dirty services. I have already mentioned the imprudentness of crime statistics. Finally, may one conclude by making a just numbering for the people that is equal to the truth. I now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Platter, you are more often in the services, I think, and I can tell you: Dissatisfaction is great, to a particular extent the population is dissatisfied. [[Abg. Murauer: On the contrary!]] I'm still on duty, too. I will be informed by the colleagues. Once a week, I still do twelve hours of service. And this is for me the reliable indicator: that there is the satisfaction you claim in the department that there is no there in the waiting rooms! I can tell you that! Mr Murauer, we can then have a little discussion so that you too know what you are talking about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Murauer.]] More efficiency and more honesty are required: from the employees, but also from those responsible for the ministry! I address the crime statistics once again: less show, more effect! Then we're on a good path – otherwise not.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59208	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59292	The next item is the speech by Mr Hornek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59313	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This double budget for 2007 and 2008 makes me look very optimistically into the future in the field of security. It is a very good budget, and I congratulate the Minister for Finance and, above all, our Minister for the Interior Günther Platter on this excellent numbering. It clearly shows the responsibility of the Vice-Cancellor and the Minister of the Interior for Security. Safety is one of the most important needs of the Austrians. Internationally, there is almost no country that has such high security standards as Austria. Several studies have shown this over and over again: The Austrians feel secure and trust in our officials in the security service. A study also shows that our police Austria is doing excellent work and is also meeting the ever higher requirements. It is therefore a great concern to thank officials for their excellent work. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Much modernisation and improvement has been achieved in the Ministry of the Interior in recent years in order to preserve security. In recent years, however, not only have the organisational structures been changed, but it has also been provided for a modern appearance of the police and has also been invested in the equipment and training of employees. When we talk about crime development, however, we must also bear in mind that international crime plays a major role. International crime can only be combated by international cooperation. Between Germany and Austria, DNA data has now been exchanged, and this excellent cooperation with Germany has enabled many crimes, even murders to be resolved. In Austria, we have responded in time to the current challenges and have set the appropriate course in order to effectively combat both national and international crime with modern structures and instruments. A few years ago, there was massive criticism in Court of Auditors reports that parallel structures of police and Gendarmerie lost a billion in Schilling, an amount which, according to the Court of Auditors, should be used much more meaningfully for modern training and equipment. Today, these proposals of the Court of Auditors have been implemented and a matter of course – implemented by an ÖVP Minister of the Interior and implemented by two ÖVP Ministers. As mayor of a small border community, I am also grateful to those officials who carry out border security and thus contribute to the fact that my home district is one of Austria's safest. Austria is one of the safest countries in Europe. And under the leadership of a Federal Minister Platter, it will remain the same.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59379	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. Mr President, five minutes' speaking time has been done. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59401	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We would be very pleased if Austria were one of the safest countries in Europe. We could only underline that. We also thank the FPÖ, of course, for the work of the executive officials who do excellent work on their own, but unfortunately they do not have the instrumentarium in hand – and that is the problem! – in order to be able to deal with special criminals. That is the crucial problem! Although, of course, the vast majority of the Austrians and possibly part of the asylum seekers are not at all criminal and not criminal, it is enough if there are asylum seekers in the promille area, who are criminal and therefore come to us because they know that they are very easy to enter the asylum procedure and then, under the cover and the protection of asylum, they can carry out and operate their criminal crafts. Mr Minister, you know very well that this situation has been a huge problem in Austria for years and we have not yet gotten under control of this problem. In order to prove this to you, I have brought along a request that we sent two years ago, in 2005, to the Ministry of the Interior, to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Prokop, for example, which shows the situation of the criminal asylum seekers in Innsbruck. Mr Platter, you know the situation in Tyrol very well, of course, and you know that no day, no weekend is going on, where there are no attacks on the part of criminal asylum seekers in Innsbruck, and that the subjective sense of security among the Innsbruck population is going down massively. They know as I do very many Innsbruckers, especially older people who say that they no longer trust in the street in the evening. They say: I trust to stop going to the street in certain areas of the city, because I feel subjectively that I am no longer safe. Mr Minister, this fact has been known to you and your predecessors for years. Now I do not want to blame you on this situation because you have only held this place for three months, but we have to put the lever there. I can now quote you from the 2005 request response to the then Minister of the Interior Prokop and explain on the basis of facts that the instrument we are giving as legislators to our executive officials is far from sufficient to take action against criminal asylum seekers. Just the opposite is the case: We have failed with this instrumentarium! And this is the Blamage, and this is the scandal! We now have to do something about it. We did two years ago. July 2005, a request sent to the Ministry of the Interior with the following introductory text – I read it –: “The inhabitants of Innsbruck, as well as the Tyrolean daily newspaper, are currently extremely concerned, because a large number of North African dealers – mostly asylum seekers – populate the city centre and, as a newspaper reports, ‘the city is firmly under control’. According to the media, these are controlled by Italy.” That was the text in 2005. And this question refers to the situation known at least since 2004. And now, in this question, the question is rightly asked: Mrs. Minister, is this known to you? And one was told in response to this first question at the time – I quote –: “A rise in crime in recent months in the city center of Innsbruck is known to the security authorities.” – Black on white says this here. Mr Minister, you know very well that this situation has not changed until today. And if the speakers go out here and say, Austria is the safest country!, then we underline that. Of course, we are one of the safest countries in the world, of course – because we have great executives because we have Austrians who respect the right. But there is a disappearing percentage of people who do not comply with the law and who misuse our law against us. Now I go on in the request. The question three is: “Is it right that asylum seekers in particular operate the drug trade?” Her predecessor replied: “Yes, the majority of these people are at different stages of an asylum procedure.” So that was already known, but that was two years ago. Fourth question: ‘To what extent is a deportation to the home country possible...?’ Her predecessor announced the following: ‘No one has yet been moved to his home country because of open asylum procedures, unexplained identity and missing travel documents.’ That's exactly the point: There must simply be approaches that no one can start an asylum procedure if he cannot prove his identity. This is what Switzerland is going to do. In Switzerland, I can only start an asylum procedure if I prove my identity. Mr Minister, vice versa, quite provocatively asked: There's no asylum seekers who go through the border naked with us. It must be possible to insert a document, just as it is the law of every Austrian driver – in order to strengthen this discussion as well – that he has his documents, he says: his driver's license! I should like to ask an asylum seekers who comes to us because he may indeed be in need of protection, to take his documents with him. But we know very well, on the basis of many descriptions, that, on the basis of many reports, the asylum seekers are told: Go to Austria, throw the documents away from the border, say you're being persecuted, you're under mental stress! And by doing so, you know you're going into the asylum procedure. That's known, but that needs to be changed. No asylum seekers, if they cannot prove their identity, may come to us because this abuses the right of guest! We have also asked, Mr Minister, in this question what we intend to do about this situation. And her predecessor then announced in her reply to the question or made the vague claim that the measures put in place will guarantee security in the future. And I can now present to you the list of these measures, which were then announced to us in response to a question. But I must first give you on the trip that these measures are far from sufficient because one is clear: Criminals, especially criminal asylum seekers, know exactly what rights and duties are and criminal asylum seekers know exactly what our executives are allowed to do and what they are not allowed to do! And above all, there is one thing that the President of the Supreme Court in Innsbruck has just recently stated by means of "Tyrol daily": that our law is far from sufficient to take action against these criminal asylum seekers. And this not only feels the Innsbruckers, but also the Austrian day after day on the road. I am now allowed to list briefly the measures that were set out at the time to be taken against these criminals, all of which are not enough to change this situation. The answer to this question is: ‘The measures implemented include in particular: Specific criminal investigations against North African perpetrators Significant strengthening of the civilian strips and uniformed stripes in the Rapoldipark... Creating a Task Force Joint Action by Criminal Police, Security Guard, Action Group to combat street crime... Forcing observation measures directly at the burner and flexible design of control activities on international trains and regional trains Intensive cooperation with the Italian Police Departments Massive foreign police measures to create foreign land in the cases provided for by law Video surveillance commissioning’ These measures were implemented and implemented two years ago. Unfortunately, it has not helped with this part of the criminals at all. In conclusion, the claim: Let us finally give our executive officers the instrument with which they can take action against these criminal asylum seekers! Let us immediately create these people in the moment they have been punished, immediately outside the country! And let us not let anyone, if he cannot prove his identity, get into the asylum procedure at the expense of the Republic! Then we will achieve what is being spoken of here and again: that our country is one of the safest countries in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59545	The next item is the speech by Mr Fazekas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59566	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I welcome the budget, because it goes up again, but I also welcome the fact that it is not insignificant to have a large share of social democracy in government, but it must contradict Mr Hornek a little because he has praised an interior minister who is actually responsible for having the dilemma today that we are allowed to celebrate every new police student and every new police student because under his era 3,000 have been dismantled. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I have thus reached the heart of the matter: that, in my opinion, Mr Federal Minister, unfortunately, I have to practice this criticism – this police reform has not been able to keep what it has promised! Although there is a great deal in the budget when we can invest in technology, such as the radio system that has already been addressed today, it must be said: We could have done this a few years before. It cost us a lot of money that didn't get out of it. I have to remind you, Minister of State, that is very clear. It is totally unclear to me why there is so much beautiful talk about the era of Strasser or why this issue is even closed. I ask you: Why do the figures of crime development in the large-city area speak volumes? Why does crime increase there? – The reason for this is actually the “team04” reform situation. Now it's up to you to finally think about it. It's not too late, it's a minute ago. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In a daily newspaper, the subject of “private security services ” has been addressed. Especially the municipalities are particularly involved in the Bredouille. But I don't actually understand the Klubobmann Westenthaler, who was there at the time when it was about to cut down 3,000 plantations from police officers, that he's making himself here today and criticizing that. I believe that Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler – then still among the liberals – was also a defender of the foundation of the civil defences. But it has not changed much by the reform of the Gendarmerie at that time. The police continue to practice one of the most beautiful professions, I find, and they also have the opportunity to get in touch with people, and can calmly work up their efforts. But what is the work of those who are concentrated in the agglomerations? – It looks a little different: Hourly file reprocessing creates frustration, a certain indifference, and much more. It doesn't surprise me, either, if many don't even have time to buy a sausage cream a day. In addition, I believe that there is a absurd discussion about the service system, where again those who serve in the constituency centres are the sufferers. I would ask you, Mr Federal Minister, to look at the whole thing again and see if there could be any other solutions that make sense. Unfortunately, one closes these problems a little, and then the best PR actions do not use anything. I think the population wants an executive who cares about people and who not only administers people and their problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] We from the Socialist Group, Mr Mitterlehner, are willing to make our contribution here and work together for security in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59642	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59663	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, when are you actually so far that you have co-ordinated yourself half-way? Then: We as opposition can then finally consider how we then criticize you. But the way you criticize each other in this budget debate, we would not bring it together, you can really do much better. All these days we've experienced this now. I have to say: I would expect something else from a government. But perhaps I have been in this House for too long and have too much internalized these mechanisms. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Mr Parnigoni, I think you're here even longer. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Sure!]] Right now! “Quo usque teeth...” the Latins said, and I have to say that if you continue making calls. I've internalized it this way: Government, these are always two parties who work together at meetings and meetings to develop their concepts and then present them together. [[Abg. Reheis: We are not the same!]] That's how I've seen you in the nineties. I say, unfortunately, because you did a lot of wrong, but at least you didn't just argue with each other. Over the last seven years, we have worked together very constructively and well in the interests of Austria, especially in the interior. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is a misevaluation!]] If the Federal Chancellor has said again now, Austria is the safest country in Europe, then this will not be due to the 100 days of your government, but rather to the seven years of the last, very successful German government, where it has not been disputed, but has been worked. And that's what we'd expect now! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: It was even safer until 1999!]] Mr Fazekas, if you criticise the reduction of staff, I would like to tell you that we have made sure that staff cuts are made in administrative areas rather than on the streets. [[Abg. Reheis: That's not true!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] If you're already making intermediate calls so prelude here, I'll ask you: Where are the 1,000 officials you have promised the electorate? Then: If you're saying we'd worked so badly, I'd have expected that there's now more on the street about these promised 1,000 police officers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] When? Where? I don't know anything about it! Where do they find them? The Minister of Finance has announced that it will be 200 more. That's where we were happy and we said: Wonderful, about 200 more, the SPÖ may even have won out to a fifth! But no, in the Committee on the Interior, the Minister of the Interior was really very honest and very open – I have to acknowledge this, because he could have performed a brimborium there like others, for example his successor, by adding up what is so great, although in reality there are reductions – and he said: It is not true that there are more police officers, but these 200 are just a formal approximation of full employment equivalents to posts! It's been very honest. [[Abg. May. Worm: The tramper has always done this quite differently! But you've always covered that!]] But where are these 1,000, I have to ask you if you have been criticizing the last seven years? [[Abg. May. Worm: Plans!]] Of course, the fight against crime must be given absolute priority and full support to the police on the street. But it is not enough – and I always say this in such debates here, but unfortunately it does not help – if you just say: The support for the police who carry out their daily service is given!, but then, when it comes to a mission, where perhaps something happens, for example, where you have to use the gun – if something is done unlawfully – then of course it has to be clarified – to give the police from the outset to the Prange, medial and political, instead of strengthening and saying to him: In doubt and first and foremost, the presumption of innocence applies to the police! So that he doesn't think next time, in a dubious situation: [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] I'd rather look away and not do it! – Not only but also, my colleague. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You don't just need to say that in our direction!]] Federal Minister, crime control: yes! Focus: There would also be further initiatives to limit police's non-articulative activities, such as watching dormant traffic et cetera. As I have now heard about the anti-smoker campaign, the police are not even sent to the locals and have to check if they have been smoked, although they are already a non-smokers. This is certainly no contribution to the more efficient use of the executive. As far as the Schengen border is concerned, Mr Minister, as I have already said in the Committee, we have expected – and you have also announced this – that the free-standing offices or planning stations can and will not be used domestically, because I believe that we will have enough need for additional police officers in the country after the end of border surveillance to ensure security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Next point: flexible service law. – Mrs Colleague, this has now been pushed back to the long-term by your Minister at the Federal Chancellor's Office. There is also a need for a sensible measure. It has rightly criticized my previous speaker Fazekas in many areas the poor conditions of the service, but it must also be said that a rigid civil service scheme for an executive body, which is not suitable for the police, but also for the federal army. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have to distinguish there!]] That is why we want a change in civil service law in order to be able to use the police more flexiblely and to enable better pay and more flexible life plans. Further point: Helicopter. – Mr Federal Minister, you have said that there will be new helicopters for the Ministry of the Interior. I can only say: Wonderful! I remember that the federal army also needs to be combined in the last legislative period. So I assume that you do not see your successor, who, I believe, see this as so urgent – he wants to pass a law that already exists, once again, with the six months of ground defense service – so to speak, to give a pusher and say to him: The Ministry of the Interior is getting new helicopters, the German army will now also get the three Black Hawk for which we have fought for years, but which unfortunately failed at the Minister of Finance at that time! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One last word on asylum and foreign policy. Ladies and gentlemen, we can be quite proud of the record of the last legislative period: minus 40 percent of asylum applications. That is, the stronger asylum law has led to a greater separation of abuse and legitimate asylum, Mr Oellinger. It is especially so – and that was the goal – that this ticket, the offer so to speak, which was set by the tractors, not by the refugees, is now less attractive, because they know very well that there are no open borders in us and that after years of asylum, there is no such easy departure into the illegality. [[Abg. Oillingers: The tractors are always one step ahead!]] But there are still a number of old loads, old cases that have gone through many years. This needs to be reduced, as soon as possible, in order to prevent various cases of hardness – we have also made a request to do so. We believe that for an acceleration of the proceedings the Federal Court of Justice required by us. It is absolutely necessary. We should not wait here for a Constitutional Convention or now this working group to produce any results – because they may not produce results either – but we should use this Federal Court as soon as possible. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] asylum yes, but only the one who really needs it. Then, too, decisions should be taken quickly to avoid hardships, but also to minimize offers, to come to Austria and then to dive into illegality after years of asylum.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59877	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner and colleagues have been properly introduced, sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59938	Mrs Stadler is speaking next time. Speaking time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e59960	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning, I may make an opinion or correction to the contribution made by the clubman. He's not here now, but I'm asking his colleagues to do it to him. He has received a terrible outbreak of anger in the first bank after our Federal Minister has indicated the number of offenders, and he has mentioned the fivefold number. I'm correcting: Our Federal Minister has mentioned the current number in 2007 – and Klubobmann Strache has deliberately mentioned the total number of 2005. [[Abg. New builder: This is an understatement!]] Why Conscious? – Because this number was prior to the decision-making of the new strict foreign law. I would like to make this correction and calm down Klubobmann. The outbreak of anger was a good show! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That wasn't an outbreak of anger! He just mentioned facts!]] We have decided on this strict foreign right. There will always be voices loud, especially by the Greens, of the opposition that we should depress here. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Mr Platter mentioned it today: The development of the number of asylum applications in the European Union is worrying, it is very uneven. The need for a balance in this context between the burden of immigration in the European Union is important for the social peace that we still need. Austria cannot be the most attractive country of asylum in the European Union. That does not mean, however, that we do not grant asylum to those people who need our protection and our help whose lives are threatened for many reasons. On the contrary. Austria has a very long tradition here, and we will continue this tradition. It will remain the same. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But it is right that procedures should be accelerated and largely completed within a year. However, there must be no tolerance for criminal asylum seekers who exploit and misuse our rule of law. To threaten with a reduction in the procedure is nothing objectionable because hospitality cannot be answered with crime. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The immigration under the title of asylum will continue to concern us in the next few years. It is important that we continue to keep the line clear: Help for those who need our protection – no tolerance for those who want to abuse our system.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60038	The next item is Mr Pendl's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60074	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think that we should, together with our executives, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much, also here in the context of this budget debate. [[It was in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP as well as of representatives of the FPÖ.]] No group would like to see a pearl out of the crown if we were to say so clearly. It is always so with the budget debates: One says, in this chapter it is too little that others say, in that chapter it is too little, others say again, the total budget is far too high. - So, we know all of this! Let me say one thing clearly, especially to Mr Klubobmen of the FPÖ and the BZÖ: This budget is a trend change! There is more money in the matter and in the staff effort. We don't need to debate that. I'll invite you to think about what we've been discussing in the last few years. There were already a few thousand more people – but let's leave that. New way, new future! We will judge it for the Austrians, I believe. I would also like to make a request to the Minister – I have already said this in the discussion on asylum and foreign law: Without additional staff in this area, we will not be able to finish this whole mountain that has been built here! We looked at this. We looked at this in Europe, we looked at it internationally. Not only do we need the asylum court – for which we all confess – but we also need appropriate personnel there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a regional Member, let me also make a request here: I believe that the citizens of my district have been very solid for this country since 1956 – I will always say so – and that Austrians have suffered a huge burden. It is not to be seen that in a very prosperous area we are struggling with these burdens, that we may not get some planning point for our police anymore. Everyone should take a look at what it looks like. We agree across the party borders. We try again and again to get the necessary resources. Don't be angry with me – I don't mean it polemic either: It may be funny to see that from hundreds of miles away and give an opinion on it, but come to us once! Let's go through my district together! Let's see. Why don't you join us at the camp? Let's talk to the Austrians! My invitation, Minister, says: Let's take a look at this together! Let's do something for the people in our home country! I wish this budget, I wish this Federal Government that we can implement it together, because it is for the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60132	The next speaker is Mrs Fürntrath. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60153	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! The Green Members have already shown us how we can solve all the problems. Top priority: more women in leadership positions. The second was: Gender budgeting. – But I say to you here: It really can't be! It does not matter to the Austrians whether a man or a woman has a leadership position or an executive profession. They want security. [[Calls to the Greens.]] And that there is security, that has just been shown by the government in recent years. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dolinschek.]] I would like to thank the predecessors of Minister Platter: Minister Strasser, who has started to implement the reform. I also thank Lies Prokop, who, of course, cannot say it personally, but she has done a lot for this country, for safety. She showed hardness when it was necessary, but she also proved her humanity. Because today officials are very often talking about: Of course, the number of planning sites has been increased, but in this context it must also be said that the police have lost a lot of agendas, namely the Fund Office, Pasamt, the Reporting Department, the registration of a car and the monitoring of parking spaces. This leaves the officials open space for them to be able to take care of our security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60201	Mrs Hlavac. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60223	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Platter, I have put to you a budget request in connection with the evaluation of the foreign law package, as provided for in the Government Agreement. They have been very poor to me, only with a sentence that has already been evaluated in 2006. Of course, I would have been interested in what was the result of the evaluation at the time, but unfortunately there was no information. However, I think it is a bit strange that you have not responded to the evaluation now, because, as I said, it is in the government agreement, and I think we are now faced with a lot of cases which show that it is necessary to carry out an evaluation as quickly as possible. Almost every day I get copies and experience new cases from the newspaper. Again today: the story of the 16-year-old Croatian girl whose parents came to Austria in the early 1990s and which is now to be postponed. This would mean moving a young person whose home is Austria and whose relationship with Croatia is long gone. Or the case of 23-year-old woman from Bosnia who has been living in Austria for 20 years. All these are cases where you have to say, so you can't deal with people. And although this young woman from Bosnia has now been granted the residence permit for a year, it is only a act of grace and not a safe legal basis that it should actually be. I think it is necessary to carry out the evaluation first, but also to set up the integration platform. They have announced that there will be this platform. I believe that this is a central and important requirement. It cannot be that integration is actively promoted only by the municipalities, especially in Vienna. This is a cross-sectional matter. The creation of this integration platform is a very urgent task, and I am very much seeking to tackle this task at last.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60259	Mr Haubner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60280	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mr Minister, congratulations on today's outcome of the international Commission! It is gratifying for experts to note that we are already well equipped for the 2008 European Football Championship in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This means that the concept, the people behind it and the ministers fit. And that's very important. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Austria is one of the safest countries in the world, which has already been discussed today. And that is why it is not surprising that large sporting events and international meetings are taking place in this safe country. I think this is very important for Austria. Austria needs this impulse. These major events not only promote our economy, but also act as excellent, worldwide effective advertising. Ladies and gentlemen! The spectators who come to the European Football Championship need and, of course, want safety. They want not only beautiful games, but also safe games. Minister Platter has set very clear accents here. He said the Hooligans have to stay outside, the stadiums belong to the sport and the fans. And that's right. I think we need an experience at this European football championship, and with the measures we are on the right track here. As regards cooperation with Germany: At that time, in 2006, I was with the Minister of the Interior, Lies Prokop, who died a lot too early, and I noticed how intensive the cooperation here was at the 2006 World Cup alone. We will continue this at the 2008 European Football Championship. In this sense: Minister, congratulations on your actions! We're on a good way.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60333	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60354	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I too am very glad that we will be deciding on a good budget with this budget and that there will be no job reduction among the police – this is a very positive step in contrast to the last few years. However, I would like to point out, Minister, that it is very important, in my opinion, to ensure that the establishment plan also agrees with the actual staff. - That's the one point. And secondly, I personally ask you to take care of the effects of the overtime savings, retransmissions, as you would like to call them, on the police. I think, in addition to the security of Austrians, the security of police officers should also be of great concern to you, and also that they can do their work properly, also in the rural regions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I have a few comments on today's debate on asylum law and the debate in the media over the last few days. I would like to call on all of us here in the House to take responsibility not only to speak of cases, but to be aware that people are behind them. Then this debate might be a little more human. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I was very confident that the government's programme reads that there should be a level playing field on asylum and foreign rights. Unfortunately, the debate has not been held in this direction. Today I have listened again to the words of the Members of this House and I think that this does not contribute to making the debate easier. I wish it would use more energy to think about meaningful integration measures instead of always talking about crime in connection with asylum seekers and presenting asylum seekers as criminals. Mrs Rosenkranz, when you speak of ‘propaganda’, of individual cases that we and the Greens are addressing, I wonder what your asylum debate is. In my opinion, her debate on asylum has been a single propaganda for years, which is very bad propaganda, which does not contribute to a good and peaceful living together in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Anyone has to say it!]] To my great pleasure, the government programme also says that the foreign rights package should be evaluated. Federal Minister! I just hope that you will reconsider your current position, which is too early for an evaluation and that the foreign package will not be tied up. I would like you to look at the many problems that have arisen in asylum and foreign law, particularly in connection with the thrust, that measures that make asylum and foreign law more human and that at last another debate is being held, namely how to live truly meaningful integration measures for the benefit of all people – the asylum seekers and the Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60413	Mr Ing. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to the 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60434	Madam President. Estimated Minister! ==References== I visited people who had to work on this day like many of my colleagues from the ÖVP. I was in three police inspections of my home district, and I was able to see that the results of the internal survey, which mention 83 percent satisfaction, can also be confirmed by reaching out to colleagues. The police officers were satisfied, highly motivated, well trained and above all well equipped. And for the good training and good equipment is also this double budget. You can see that upland, downland. In my home district, for example, we have made the gap. All police services have been re-adapted or newly built since the middle of this year. There is a good fleet, best weaponry, state-of-the-art clothing as well as fast and good data lines, which, as I mean, is a prerequisite for working for the safety of Austrians. But this is also the best condition for preparing for the 2008 football club. In addition to the topic of executives: The merger between customs guards and the Gendarmerie has failed to do so. The century project, the merger of gendarmerie and police, was also carried out. In reality, this will result in an increase in efficiency. I have to contradict the colleague of the SPÖ, because: There's nothing going on where anyone refuses this merge in the structure. But where she was carried out, a more comes out, of course, for the good and for the safety of the Austrians. This satisfaction of officials, this security in Austria now also has a new name, namely the name of our Minister Günther Platter. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: What's the name?]] I would like to thank you very much, also on behalf of my colleagues, for now someone who is one of us, as it were, of whom we were a gendarm, who is a police officer who knows the tasks, because that is not a matter of course in every department. Thank you very much and everything, all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60475	The next speaker is Mr Heinzl. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60496	Madam President. Federal Minister! Once in advance, I also sincerely thank all the police who do very good and truly not do easy work for security in Austria! Nevertheless, I would now like to point out the enormous increase in crime and the staffing of executives, especially in Lower Austria. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, the number of crimes has increased dramatically, but at the same time, staff has been greatly reduced both in the security guard and in the criminal police. The promise that no police officers on the street would stop the service was never met. In the district of St. Pölten alone, Mr. Minister, the 50 police officers have been dismantled, and I can tell you – and you can check this – there is no administrative planning office. With us in the Lower Austrian Central Area, the security situation continues to worsen. In Lower Austria, according to the latest statistics, the increase in criminal offences is twice as high as in the federal section, whereas the investigation rate has fallen by almost 9 percent. Federal Minister Platter! The Lower Austrian executive needs – in the interests of our population – an actual increase in staff! By the way: In the political district of St. Pölten, that is, in the core country of the Lower Austrian Central Area, the rise in crime is the highest in all of Austria – and that has been the case for years. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that the Vienna ÖVP's request to withdraw 100 police officers currently engaged in border surveillance from Lower Austria to Vienna after the case of the Schengen border at the beginning of 2008 cannot be accepted! The Lower Austrian Central Area really needs an improvement in the security situation. However, there is also a need for sufficient staff, good and modern equipment and the corresponding services. Even after the removal of Schengen borders, we will need good surveillance in the hinterland. Minister of the Interior Platter, I am asking you to do so – the numbers of criminal statistics show this exactly – to carry out massive personnel increases in Lower Austria at the security guard and the criminal police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60541	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60563	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I would like to address some of the problems or wishes of the Leoben district today. The city of Leoben is a conurbation centre in which about 40,000 people live every day when you count the number of inhabitants and the number of the commuters together. The number of advertisements in the city of Leoben increased by an incredible 40% in the first quarter of 2007 compared to the quarter of the previous year. Compared to February, the Deliktzuvax in March of this year was extremely 118 percent! Of course, the sense of security of people has fallen accordingly. There is nothing to do with the fact that officials of the executives are almost superhuman and that they have been able to significantly improve the education rates. The Leoben district, thanks to the excellent work done by the police, is at the top of the education rate – in the Styrian ranking, so to speak – the city of Leoben in second best place. Now, of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the officials of the executive very much for their great commitment and for their achievements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] - That's what's worth it to them, too. This benefit is all the more important given the fact that in the case of city police, Leoben, there is a total staff of more than 12 per cent for executive officials and a total staff of other non-usable officials. of more than 23 percent. In addition, city police Leoben only provides an overtime quota for ten executive officers. However, this quota cannot only be used to complement the missing executive officials, because from this quota all other services, such as criminal strip travels, arrests, football ordering services et cetera, have to be covered. This quota, Mr. Federal Minister, was unfortunately recently reduced by a further 5 percent despite further declining team numbers! The police inspections in the district are also under-occupied or unoccupied, and there are also too few staff due to allocations and special use. The Federal Police Directorate's criminal service is also listed with ten planning posts, of which only eight officials are available, and this includes an increased number. We believe that in order to combat crime effectively, at least four groups with four officials would be necessary. Of course, this unsatisfying personnel situation also results in a strong increase in crime. The devaluation of the four smaller Federal Police Directorates, Wiener Neustadt, Steyr, Eisenstadt and Leoben, by then Minister of the Interior Ernst Strasser would have to be reversed again. Mr Platter, I would therefore ask you to act for the benefit of the top Irish people, so that the sense of security of people can be increased accordingly in this region too. We are becoming part of the SPÖ Of course, they support you at 100 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60624	I don't have any more words on the inside. This is why this subject area has also been completed. [[15:29:05]] Finance Chapter 50: Financial management Chapter 51: Cash account Chapter 52: Public charges Chapter 53: Financial compensation Chapter 54: Federal assets Chapter 55: Pensions Chapter 58: Community financing, foreign exchange agreements and Texts of federal financial laws and establishment plans
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60700	We are now entering into the negotiations on the part of finance. The first honourable Member to speak is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 10 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60725	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! There is a great deal to be said about these chapters of financial management, but I can only address a few points here because of the short time available to me. I will start with the chapter Financial Management. A number of things have happened in recent years, and some reform measures are being continued: last – and this can be seen positively – for example, the establishment of the so-called STEUFA, the tax suspension to combat organised tax evasion. Less positive is the attempt to reform the eight large audit offices, which currently have about 700 employees; these 700 employees have achieved a tax surplus of €1.1 billion in 2006. These large audit offices are now to be converted – at least there are plans to do so – into an act-leading central office with 250 employees. All eight managers of the large audit offices are massively opposed. And I would also urge you to take great care with regard to this cash cow of the financial management. I now come to a part of the financial management which concerns the department itself, namely the central management. When I look at the budget of Chapter 50, how much the increase in staff and expenditure in this area is, I can see that from 2006 to 2007 they are to be increased by 15 percent. In absolute terms, this is about twice as much as the female budget. And if I only turn to staff expenditure, I can see that from 2006 to 2007 the staff expenditure should only be increased for the central management, that is, only for the department, not for the financial administration, not for tax administration, not for the tax warrant, by 18 percent. Yes, for heaven's sake, what is going on?, I thought and I have already spoken to the Minister for Finance in the Committee's budget debate, but I have received few answers. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: “Praised ”? Ask me!]] I have received the following answers to the brief request I made. First: The salaries must be increased, and there is a structural effect. This structural effect was particularly high in financial management. – Well, this is perhaps 4.5 to 5 percent maximum. However, 13 percent remain. A second point mentioned is that the establishment plans in financial management are greatly reduced. – In the financial management maybe, but not in the central management. In the central management, the establishment plans from 2006 to 2007 remain unchanged at 787. The third point mentioned was: The 2006 new recordings are not sufficiently reflected in the success of 2006. When I look at the agendas for 2005 and 2006, I can see that there has not been an extension of the establishment plans, but a reduction of the establishment plans, from 802 in 2005 to 787 in 2006. Finally, there are several requirements in the field of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State Secretary's Office in connection with the dual function, in particular with the Minister of Finance and Vice-Cancellor Molterer. However, a request from Mr Öllinger has shown that the number of employees has remained unchanged compared to the predecessor, namely eleven with the Minister of Finance and Vice-Chancellor and five with the Secretary of State. So the question is: How does this increase in staffing in the central management explain? I therefore ask this question because Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance have stopped all the other departments to budget very cheaply. In his area, however, he obviously forgot it completely. Did he make a basket money here? And if so, what will this be provided for? [[Abg. Oillingers: For the function of the file blacks!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Very “original”!]] Ah yes, possibly a number of blackmailers had to be hired in connection with the two committees of inquiry. Yeah, that could be it. That would be an explanation. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: This is a classic oillinger intermediate call! Like the oilman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That would be the way the oillinger would do!]] Chapter 51: Special precautions are included in the cash register management. If you look at these flat-rate provisions, it must be noted that this is a part of the government programme, namely those for research and development: 60 million this year, 100 million a year. For social security, there are 62 million this year, 137 in the coming year and 60 and 120 million in infrastructure expansion. As far as social security is concerned, this is not a good thing that this government wants to achieve a solution to the care issue and at the same time a basic need-oriented security. This is probably not entirely possible with these amounts set out here. It is still unclear how these €60 and €120 million are to be allocated to the infrastructure, to the ÖBB on the one hand and to the ASFINAG on the other. When will we finally have clarity about which of the two institutions will be equipped with what means? Next point – and I would like to return to the establishment plans again –: The establishment plans are a lot of paper, which is a separate annex to the Federal Finance Act. It is actually a numerical cemetery. And as a special feature for 2007, they are not comparable to those of 2006. Very lapidar is then hidden somewhere in a small footnote that is due to the fact that this is an integration of special-plan setting quotas. At the same time, however, we know that in the next two years 1 464 plantations will be dismantled. It shall be 833 this year, and 631 in the coming year. But if we cannot compare the 2006 and 2007 establishment plans, do we not know where to reduce job plans and where to increase job plans? I have not yet received answers – nor have I seen these adjustments explain between 2006 and 2007, probably for the total number of establishment plans, but not for the individual departments. Again: These establishment plans are not suitable for number cemeteries and for control purposes. It is therefore, I think, high in time to push forward the federal budgetary reform and to consider carefully what form of representation of the staff is suitable for control purposes and for sufficient information vis-à-vis to the House. I now come to the central chapter of the Financial Group, Chapter 52: Public charges. Little happened. We have already passed the budget accompanying law. There is in principle a right step: This is the increase in mineral oil tax. However, insufficient in this context is the social suspension, despite the introduction of the penalty amounting to €90. Here the negative tax has been raised from 110 € to 200 €. But what the tax structure is doing is nothing in this double budget, but nothing at all, with a single exception, with the exception that the inheritance and probably the gift tax should end. What to do? What are the weaknesses of the Austrian tax structure? – The weaknesses of the Austrian tax structure lie in the fact that, despite the increase in mineral oil tax, the share of eco-taxes is still too low in view of the major tasks ahead of us in the climate protection area. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer:... would you like to raise it? Increase in taxes!]] Mr Minister, I will give you an answer. Secondly, The burden of work factor is too high. Here we are number one in Europe, and would be called for a relief from the work factor. Mr Federal Minister, the Greens have already presented a concept many years ago on how to combine these two things, namely, to increase the share of eco-taxes and on the other hand to relieve labour. Furthermore, there are a number of other concepts which have already been presented by one of your predecessors within the framework of the Tax Reform Commission. In this context, they want to put in place a Commission to examine what has to be done here. – Yes, how long do we want to wait until it actually comes to a relief of the factor work?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third point: Share of wealth-related taxes, trend has been falling for years, and with the abolition of inheritance and gift taxes, these will disappear even in marginality. Let us now take a look at the Wifo studies, in the White Paper on growth and employment. What does this White Paper set out as priorities for tax reform? – First, a relief from the labour factor, particularly in the low wage sector – which is also covered by the greens’ intentions – second, the need to reflect external effects gradually and continuously in taxation, i.e.: Green taxes up, and thirdly, to maintain the contribution of the wealthy to the social system, i.e.: Increase in capital taxes. They also say how to do this, namely: Reducing further taxes on labour and counter-financing through higher basic tax, inheritance tax, energy taxes – in parentheses – (ecological tax reform). This is quite similar to what the Greens also want, and with regard to the reform of the basic, gift and inheritance tax, they act like the Greens for a realistic assessment of real estate and property assets. The whole need not happen within the framework of a large tax reduction, as you plan it for 2010, no, a tax-structural reform is required here, which can be revenue-neutral or at least far-reaching. And since, Mr. Federal Minister for Finance, you are asked, you must act there; Concepts are on the table – put them into practice! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60847	Now, Mr Dr. Stumpfully, I would like to speak. 6 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60870	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, just one word to my previous speaker: Mr Rossmann, you are in Parliament for a short time, but you have clearly recognized the acceptable sides of the opposition role: You can criticize everything, you know everything better, but you don't have to do anything, just know everything better. That's great practice! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Then: If you had something to improve and not just know everything better, you would probably have tabled concrete amendments to the Budget Committee – but no request was made by you! Let's say it again. Your motto is: I know everything better, I'm the Oberg'scheiterl, I criticize everything, but I don't do anything myself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we are discussing the chapter on finance at the end of the parliamentary budget debate today when we will decide in one, two hours of this important double budget 2007/2008, I think we can say here: We decide here – and this is precisely what we should say in the chapter on finance – a budget characterised by first of all stable state finances, solid state finances, second future optimism, and third sustainability. Now you're gonna say these are just keywords. – I also do not like to discuss on the basis of keywords, I am very happy to discuss on the basis of concrete facts and facts. Let us look at the specific facts and facts in the financial chapter! And that's... Maastricht deficit 0.9 percent in the first year, 0.7 percent in the second year. Let's think back: We still had a net deficit of 5.6 percent in the mid-1990s! 5.60% in the mid-1990s and now 0.9 and 0.7% respectively. In the next year of 2009, it will be 0.2 percent, and for 2010 we have committed a surplus of 0.4 percent according to the budget path, so that we can then have a margin for massive tax reductions in the interest of strengthening consumption on the one hand and strengthening the economic location on the other. Take a second number, the famous primary surplus! That's how it looks: Today 1.7 percent plus next year 1.8 percent plus. That means we have surpluses in the operating business. We would also have to do so if we did not have to carry with us the old debts of the seventies and eighties. Third identifier: For the first time, although we have already been members of the eurozone for a few years, the Maastricht criterion reaches less than 60 percent of government debt – a very great success, a very important figure! In the sense of the “spare in the right place”, which this budget expresses, let us take the expenditure ratio! It should be noted that: About 48 percent; The highest level was once 56 percent. Let's take the tax rate! Here we see: 41.6%; The peak was 44.8%. We can say, no matter what is the characteristic of the state budget from the chapter on finance: Every code confirms that we are on a good, right path with this double budget, ladies and gentlemen! Of course you can still ask: What do these many figures say, what do they bring to the individual citizens? – There can be one of the 23 000 unemployed. congratulate you on getting a job this year. One can congratulate those 56 000 who will receive additional employment this year, which is also according to the economic researchers' forecasts. So: 23 000 unemployed people less, at the same time 56 000 more workers. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that these are the consequences of a successful economic and financial policy, of which the individual feels something that shows that it makes sense to pursue this policy. I like to admit, of course, of the budget figures the individual does not have much, which is more for insiders and economic gourmets. But that we have 23 000 unemployed people less that we will have 56 000 more employees, I think this shows that the trend on the labour market has been changing since the turn of the trend in April 2006 – and not since 1. October 2006! – continues and strengthens. And we recognize more from month to month: We are on the right track, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the end of the day: If we decide on this double budget – and I say this now with full respect for all the members of the government – then Parliament has decided on the input for two years for the respective department. Of course, the output that was made out of this input in these two years will be decisive. The members of the government will of course all be measured on the output, and I am convinced that this double budget will contribute to the fact that the output of the individual resorts will also be a much more positive one. In this sense, thank you very much, Minister of Finance. As chairman of the Committee on Finance, I also thank my friend Jakob Auer, the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, who was incredibly sovereign, with a lot of expertise, with a lot of routine, but also with a lot of endurance and a lot of fairness, these budgetary negotiations have led in Parliament. Jacob, thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e60976	Next come Mr Lutz Weinzinger. 8 minutes welcome. Mr President, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that a total of 14 minutes of remaining speaking time is available to the liberal club. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61004	Estimated President! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Should I talk faster, or should I speak less? [[Call: Less! Less]] That's the question. I know about 14 minutes. Let's go! For the last time in this budget debate, Minister of Finance: The budget is the government's programme of figures. We heard it before, we heard it from different sides. And if that's true – and it has to be true, because I heard this also in the Upper Austrian country day from the financial experts there, and these were good people: Leitl, Ratzenböck, Pühringer; so they always said so, so is that right, isn't it? . So if it is, then this is not a compliment for your coalition partner, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, because if you look at it closely, then you will be clear, this budget is nothing but the continuation of the budgets of the previous black-orange government, with a few concessions to the left half of the empire or to the SPÖ. [[Complementary by representatives of the ÖVP]] We will, in short, vote against this budget by the FPÖ. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We will not agree, that is not a secret, because we simply miss some emphasis formations, heavy weight formations; for example, these are not available in the area of family policy! We are firmly convinced that it is too little to imagine that we will create some kind of care area for children in this Republic. That's too little! Family policy means that we must give families the opportunity to afford themselves children, even at the tax level. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Whatever the budget for structural measures, infrastructure measures are planned – for whom do we plan that? For our offspring, for our children, for our grandchildren – and not only for the children and grandchildren of the celebrities! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have therefore also made a proposal – because you always say there would be no proposals. We have made a proposal with regard to family division, and we will stay there and we will drive it around, and I am convinced that sooner or later you will also have the conviction that this is a right path, not the only one that makes, of course, not, but it is a way that could or will bring a lot. We have proposed, and this has been a long time in which to check the taxes on luggage. There are luggage taxes in our tax system – and I know what I am talking about; perhaps one or another knows what I am of a profession – which bring less than they actually cost in the administration and in the recovery. It can't be! That's where you have to say: We don't need that, and we're dealing with this. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: That's not true!]] We talked a lot about internal security today, and that was good, important and right. But we have recognized that this budget for internal security is not going the right way again. [[Abg. Murauer: Well, well, well, well!]] Even if It says ten times, “Well, well, ” it says: Against the increasing crime that exists, and against the falling rate of Enlightenment, which is also given, there is nothing else but to increase the level of staff in the field of internal security! That is quite clear and clear! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the final effect, it is cheaper to us than the enormous damage done to the economy by crime. We do not need to think about it in particular and to ask for expertise! That is simply the case, and this should have been recorded in this budget, which is a double budget, for two years. I find too few approaches to the problem of schinasylantism, because what did I say at the outset and what did you say to me? – The budget is the government's programme of figures. Where do I find measures here in relation to the enormous costs of asylum, and this misinterpreted asylum system, to our country? [[Abg. Oils: What is a truly understood asylum system?]] The question: What is a truly understood asylum? is quite clear and easy to answer, namely: This is the asylumist who is actually being persecuted. This is not the economic refugee! [[Abg. Mandak: And how do you know?]] This is the asylumist who comes to us because he is threatened in his home country of body and life due to his race, his religion and his attitude, and who finds no other safe place from his home to us! That's a real asylumist! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Everything else is people who want to abuse our social system for their personal purposes! Everything else is people who take a criminal action because they are illegally entering this country! So as far as this sham aylantism is concerned, I find nothing in this budget either. I am also very concerned about the fact that this budget does not even change something in terms of the cost of the EU. In 2006, the Republic of Austria paid €2.470 billion to the EU. She received €1.742 billion in the form of various co-financing and co-financing. Net payment: € 728,000,000; these are in old money, in our beautiful old Austrian schilling 10 billion schilling! And we account for 1.6% of the EU population! Ladies and gentlemen, there is something wrong, you have not really negotiated, and for this reason we reject this budget.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61144	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61166	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The double budget, the 2007 and 2008 budgets, sets the right priorities, the right priorities, and that is why it is also a good budget. The main focus is placed on where too little has been done in recent years in the area which has been neglected in recent years. In particular, these are the areas of education, climate policy, employment and social policy, and there the priorities are set for this year. Who says this is a continuation of the old policy, he has not considered the budget, he should consider what has happened in recent years. There were hourly cuts, there were fewer teachers, more goers, there has been money saved in all areas in the education system. – Now, the maximum number of students is reduced. Now we are starting to rebuild support and support teacher systems. Now there are the first steps towards a common school, not just the 6- to 10-year-old, but then the 6- to 14-year-old. If this is the same as in the last seven years, when someone sees it, I'm right, then I've been wrong in the last seven years, but that's a policy that we definitely support. [[Abg. Morak: That can be!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also in the field of climate policy, where significantly more money is now available than in recent years: €500 million in the next few years for the Climate Fund, of which part is in research, a part in very concrete projects. This is a lot of what the old Federal Government has invested in climate protection! Yes, there are also parts of climate change policy that I would operate differently. I would be less in JI/CDM, yes, I would, but that is now in a coalition so that you have to agree on a common program, and then I'm just standing on the whole program and not just part of it. But I can say that I would personally invest much less in JI/CDM. What will be essential in the next two years is the implementation of this budget. It is true that there are a number of regulatory powers where revenue is not yet available everywhere. This is not the case with the climate protection fund, there are already revenue, but there are other areas where there are overrun powers where revenue has not yet been budgeted. However, it must also be said that the revenue side of the budget has been conservatively estimated. Although I do not believe that the propaganda that we have heard in recent weeks will amount to many billions more tax revenue, I appreciate the budgetary scope of some €100 million already spent or planned by the above-mentioned overrun powers, but also in these policy areas, in terms of employment, education, science, research, health, social and also climate policy, will open up additional scope. The government programme cannot yet be met with a double budget, it is also designed for four years, but there are still some areas which have not yet been financed, but which have been politically agreed on, and these spaces should be used above all to further implement important parts of the government programme. For example, when I think about education, I think about the preschool year, I also think about childcare facilities where the federal government can ask how to create incentives at the federal level for countries and communities that they do their job accordingly. Mr Rossmann asked: When will the tax structure reform come? – It is agreed for 2010. It is, of course, important to look at the tax structure and not simply to reduce taxes, because it is essential not only to make the tax system more efficient, not only ecologically, but also socially and justly. And that, I believe, will have to be the goal of the next few years, that at the end of this tax reform debate there will be a tax reform that will make the tax system more social and fairer. Finally, Mr Federal Minister, on this already raised issue of the file template and blacks or whites, as I have read today. I think you have nothing to hide at all, and you do nothing good yourself if you do not present files here to the full extent, I say. I would be polite to ask you, but to follow the arguments of the President of the National Council here and to present the documents to the committee of inquiry in such a way that they can carry out their work. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61215	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 8 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61237	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are, as it were, in the target of the budget debate. The last few weeks have been very interesting, controversial, and the different political objectives of the individual parliamentary parties have also been filtered out and worked out. We have seen very precisely who has what ideas in terms of financial and tax policy in our country. The SPÖ is rather the party of the loads, the party of tax increases and the redistribution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] – You can stand up to this when you ask for such a thing. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] This is a political requirement, as there are other points of view. The SPÖ wants to distribute a higher tax rate and more – is legitimate. That is not our view, nor the view of the other parties, but the opinion of the SPÖ. The ÖVP is rather a party that is well budgeted, good conservative, as well as the Finance Minister conservative and careful, but too little courage for the time we live in. [[Abg. Murauer: The balance!]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Sustainable!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In view of international competition in particular, it would be appropriate to allow a little more wealth of ideas to be incorporated into our country's budget policy and to shape taxes and taxes in such a way that they are really forward-looking not to make Austria a high-tax country – and we will if we do not reduce taxes in good time. What that would mean, we see in Germany. If taxes are reduced in Germany, as the Federal Republic of Germany has said, then we will find ourselves in a really difficult situation. The objectives are very ambitious, under 40 per cent, to reach 38 per cent of the tax and tax rate. We also support that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] We have also tabled proposals, amendments – because someone has previously said that nothing has happened from the opposition. We have made a tax reform proposal because we have always felt and are deeply convinced – that is not new for the EIA, nor for Mr Finanzminister, he knows from our opinions and positions over the past few years – that it is necessary to reduce taxes, because it provides more growth. These two budgets show that by 2008, you, Minister of Finance, – I do not know if you have all taken this into account – €5.5 billion more in wage tax, corporate tax, capital income tax, income tax, energy tax et cetera. I have not yet taken into account the social security contributions. 5,5 billion €! Now I'm asking: If we have an inflation of about 1.5 percent, how do you want to achieve growth in the future or maintain that in the 3 percent order if we do not at the same time relieve the population? – That will not be possible. If we do not give people the money back so that they can also spend it, we will not be able to boost the economy accordingly, we will not be able to create the jobs we want so that we can also comply with those budgets that you have presented to us. That means the path can only be loud: Let us relieve the Austrian population, the citizens, which leads to more growth, more employment and more social prosperity in our country! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Financial management in particular: That's not our way! Mr Krainer or anyone else from the SPÖ has said that the financial and budgetary policies of recent years are being rewritten here. - That's not the case. It is not written, but it is absolutely controversial to our ideas that we introduced in the years 2000 to 2006. If you use only the fees for legal transactions, the financial management fees, federal administration fees, where you also make an increase of 5 per cent, then this is the wrong way, once again, by encouraging the services of the state – the citizen should pay quietly – instead of saving in the administration, where we all know and from individual companies, from the ÖGB to the Economic Federation, it is always the wrong way to hear that we should finally make clear in the administrative reform that at last we should also make the state more modern, which is also imposed on us by the EU; Verheugen, for example, speaks of it. We must go down with the administrative activity, not only in the public sector, where it speaks of 20 percent, but also in the business sector. We know that a single entrepreneur has to spend 272 hours per year only for administrative activities. 272 hours he is held off by his original business, namely to make sales! That cannot be the goal of a modern, powerful state, ladies and gentlemen. We all need to support the efforts to reduce administrative costs and administrative burdens in order to make us really more efficient. I miss that in these budget proposals – well, we have already discussed this in the budget accompanying legislation. But the answer to a question has remained to me, Mr Vice-Chancellor, and I would have liked to have known that, even if I had put it in committee and had not received an answer to it: A climate fund will be set up, which will be fed from the results of the increase in mineral oil tax – € 500 million. After the old pattern of the 1980s, it was agreed that a red and a black managing director should be installed. Then we hear, without presenting to us content and strategic considerations, what happens to the Climate Fund – which has also been criticized by the Greens – the first thing that is determined: Two managing directors must be here! – No one knows what they get; is not necessarily important either. I have only heard a third of these €500 million goes to the Ministry of Infrastructure, a third to the Ministry of the Environment and a third to the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Mr Finanzminister and Vice-Chancellor Molterer, please explain to me now what we need to have two managing directors there who carry out only one activity, one third each year to transfer to the three Ministries! [[Abg. Dolinschek: Because of the proporz!]] – I do that to you, too, and I don’t ask for it, I tell you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These three transfers annually cannot be the problem and not the most original task of two managing directors. I would have liked to know that from you. To conclude: We are a constructive opposition party. We are not generally opposed to all the budget chapters, we will support this budget in the fields of external and art and culture. [[Abg. Oillinger: What do you ask for advice?]] [[Call the ÖVP: Nothing!]] We cannot go along with all the other budget chapters because they do not fit us in terms of content or in terms of the budgetary framework. Therefore, a fundamental wish from our side: more budgetary discipline in the area of administration and reduction of taxes, then you will also have our votes on your side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61373	Mr Jakob Auerzu is now speaking. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61398	Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, I very much appreciate you as a specialist and a very constructive colleague. But since you had the kindness to make such an assessment, which group stands for, I must say: I don't know what you're talking about, but I've noticed one thing – and I'm allowing this assessment to happen: Your courage has also grown ever since you were in opposition! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens.]] If criticism is already being made of a supposed occupation of managing directors, I have to say, I remember that the BZÖ has a great deal of experience, how this can happen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the chapter on finance also gives us the opportunity to talk about the structural and administrative reforms of the Federal Government and the countries, as well as the structural reforms repeatedly demanded by the municipalities. First of all, however, I should like to thank you very much, and I can give the compliments of my fellow Member and friend Günter Stummvoly to all the leaders of the political groups. A special thanks to all the employees of the Federal Ministry of Finance, especially those employees of the house and the clubs who have helped, in the Committee's consultations, but also here, to make preparations in such a way that the discussions could be very constructive and in a reasonable way, though sometimes controversial. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria's finances are developing positively. The fruits of economic policy in recent years have become visible, and we should be very pleased about this. Mr Weinzinger missed the focus. It was only briefly remembered to him – to read after reading, since he is not present at the moment –: There are some clear priorities in the continuation of what began years ago. I can only mention: Climate protection, social protection, care, research, development, infrastructure, education and other areas. He may have overlooked that, may be, but after all, no one is harming remedial education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Weinzinger is quite right that it is necessary to think also in the direction of a tax reform – that is what we are doing, especially this government. However, a tax reform should be made if one can afford it, and then it should be a big throw like the last tax reform, which was also made of a cast. Ladies and gentlemen, a question also raised to the friends of SPÖ, after we were massively criticized in connection with privatisation in recent years, on the issue of inheritance tax: I assume that the former vice chancellor and finance minister Androsch still has a corresponding role in the SPÖ – he was also on the 1st. May – and Androsch also expressly says this: “Questions of justice”, “Androsch: abolish inheritance tax”. – Yes, we are also of this opinion, so you should praise Androsch, ladies and gentlemen, that is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen! As the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to make a small point or propose how to make the much improved budgetary consultations in the Committee and here in plenary more interesting. I admit that I was annoyed that the reaction of the media was de facto null throughout the last week regarding the budget consultation of this House. That bothers me. It is quite frustrating for some if nothing happens here. As Mr Kukacka has said, we could then talk about the destruction of parliamentarianism. It would only be dealt with in two- or three-minute speeches here – this allegation is quite justified. Maybe it would be possible to make a full-day budget hearing. Perhaps it would be possible to hold discussions in two local authorities at the same time as the Committee on Budgets, as the representatives of the Committee on Budgets are working very well, have proved themselves well for years. Perhaps it would also be possible to hold the budgetary deliberations here in plenary only for two full days. Every parliamentarian has the chance to speak once, but for six or eight minutes – and not very many just two minutes – and the opposition is then, I confess, provided one hour in addition; perhaps that would be more interesting. This proposal is certainly not complete, I am very grateful for improvements, I can say. I mean, we should do everything in terms of how we are seen – not how we see ourselves, but how we are seen. Because, obviously, the media have seen us in such a way that these budget consultations, even if they have been so intensive, have not aroused the great interest. Perhaps it would be possible to think in a working group about how this can be improved. Mr Federal Minister for Finance, I have pointed out here the constantly requested improvement or necessary administrative reform of the municipalities. I can only give two examples. Effects of the Animal Protection Act: If a little kitten, a small songbird is found somewhere, then the County Head Team, all communities, all Magistrates throughout the federal state, are obliged to make this known. The respective community has to announce the four weeks, tell if a owner has reported himself, and so on. If we continue to maintain such bureaucracy on behalf of the Federal Offices, on behalf of the countries, districts and communities, we must not be surprised if it is impossible for the communities to carry out administrative reforms to a corresponding extent. At the federal level, we would also sometimes be called upon not to impose such burdens and needs on the municipalities, then this would be a little easier at the level of the communities.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61502	Mr Klubobmann is now speaking to Dr. Van der Bellen. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61523	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Federal Chancellor! Mr Auer, I think you are or have been mayor of a community. Is that right? – 30 years, I congratulate you! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: 30 years!]] There are other mayors here in the room, for example Mr Zweytick of the ÖVP. You will be interested to hear that according to the available data, the Ministry of Finance assumes that a number of Austrian municipalities and federal states are just ahead of bankruptcy. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Right! Not my community! I'm out!]] - A lot, a lot. Your community, not the one from Mr Zweytick, but a lot. It must be borne in mind that the average interest rate of the federal debt, the so-called implicit interest rate, falls from 4.7 to 4.5% in 2006 to 4.3% in 2008, but the interest rate of the rest – these are essentially the countries and municipalities – increases from 5.6 to 7.6 to 8.6 percent! The interest rate on national and municipal debt is exploding! This can only be said if one takes the data seriously – and I come back to it – that the Ministry of Finance believes that the banks and other creditors believe that countries and communities are practically bankrupt, otherwise they would not come to the idea of demanding risk supplements of this kind. 2008: Interest rates on the countries and communities are twice as high as the federal government! - You have to break that on the tongue. Mr. Finanzminister Molterer, we have discussed this several times, including in the Committee. I have done nothing, except to take data provided by the Ministry of Finance, in the budget report, in the stability programme and in the employment aid to the Federal Finance Act, and to take it slightly – how should I say? – bragging each other, putting them together, that's all. These are all official data. You now have the choice of either explaining to the countries and communities that they have to pay twice as high interest rates as the federal government – a lot of pleasure, I can only say – or single numbers that you have provided do not vote. This concerns, in particular, the interest expenditure of the Federal Government or the interest-rate expenditure of the State as a whole. You have the choice, I am waiting for your answer, at the latest when answering this written request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61579	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61601	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, I would also particularly like to welcome the gymnasiasts from Klagenfurt! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, what bothered me in this debate was once again the indication that Austria is net payer, which is particularly done by Austria. It is true that we are net payers – but we can be proud that we are net payers because you only pay net if you have a correspondingly high level of development. That's one. Secondly, I am also convinced that no euro, which we can get about funding, should remain in Brussels, should all be picked up. That's also a task. But, ladies and gentlemen, if you only measure this in figures and you do not see the benefits of this European Union, this great development in Europe, which is peaceful and also takes an excellent development in prosperity, you simply get too short and operate polemics which is not appropriate here. I would like to say something about tax policy, which is of course important. But what national instruments are always used? – That’s this competition in the tax race. I consider this to be a dangerous development, because of course it loses a lot of financial power from the state, which is also needed in order to meet the social needs. And so I believe it is necessary to introduce a certain degree of harmonisation of taxes in Europe. I would be very pleased if we were to discuss the basis of assessment, the structures of taxation in Europe, and thus some minimum limits. I see very clearly how taxes are moving gradually towards indirect taxes and away from capital – and that throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end, this is a development that leads to more and more inequality and leads some companies, for example, to a significant degree of tax arbitrage, because they can benefit from a profit shift or by means of direct investment. All of this leads to a completely uneven and not just distribution! In particular, small and medium-sized enterprises are taxed because they cannot avoid this tax pressure. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to address this tax harmonisation more clearly in Europe. I would like to ask the Federal Government to ask for that wherever it is possible to do so. For example, if we want to achieve a framework for the core areas of European corporate taxation, it is necessary to find many allies in Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61646	It now has Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer to speak. – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61667	Madam President. High house! We have now managed several intensive working weeks, discussion weeks on the double budget 2007 and 2008 together in the Hohe Haus. I would like to thank you for the open discussion, for the intense discussion that has been held in the committees and here in plenary. I think that some suggestions made here by Mr Auer should be discussed with the Federal Government in the common interest of all political groups in order to increase the attractiveness of this debate on probably one of the most important decisions taken in a parliamentary year. After all, it concerns the question of the budget, the economic base of the state, the Republic for two years, for half of the legislative period. That's not something, mine. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a far-reaching decision, where we are happy to have the debate, also the critical debate, because at the end of the budget, Parliament has the decision to make. In this sense, I am open to these concrete suggestions and proposals, because it would actually serve us both – the government on the one hand and the House on the other – to increase the attractiveness of this discussion. I would like to thank everyone involved once again for this intensive work. What is the background to this double budget and will it be implemented, ladies and gentlemen? – It is important that we finally see the framework in which we move politically. We have a growth situation that we have not known for many years. That's good, that's positive. In Austria this year, we are expected to have a growth rate of around 3 percent, and next year too, we will grow slightly smaller, but still significantly above the average of the euro zone. We have a strong one, we have a strong one, we have a stable growth period. There are, ladies and gentlemen, some structural decisions and changes in the Austrian economy, which, in my view, are often lacking in the public debate. And one of the major structural changes – initiated in recent decades, intensively driven forward in recent years – is that we have been in the past year – I also expect this to happen this year! – have a current account surplus, ladies and gentlemen! That's something we haven't known for a long time. We have even become net exporter in the exports of goods. The Austrian economy has taken advantage of this opportunity of opening up, globalisation, Europeanisation. This has done us well, and this also makes us strong in the economic context, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have this opening up of markets because we have high quality businesses, competitive companies and highly qualified employees. We have brought this opening of the markets, this current account surplus with an effect in terms of time, which is not natural: high growth, positive current account balance with absolute stability of our currency. We have rarely had stable inflation rates for so long in a period of time. This helps the working people in this country, ladies and gentlemen, because, ultimately, the money they earn is a growing purchasing power. This is also part of the success story of our country. On this basis, we have a labour market development, and despite all the criticism I understand, which the opposition is quite clear, I think that we have a fundamental consensus that we want to continue this absolutely positive development in the labour market, where we are among the three, four best countries in the European Union, quite offensively in the future. With almost 4 percent – or slightly more than 4 percent – unemployment rates, we are actually quite specifically on the way to achieving the goal of full employment, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Against this background, we have undertaken in the Federal Government to support and strengthen precisely these positive developments with this double budget, ladies and gentlemen. This is the real task of budgetary policy. Now you can discuss whether some detail is made in this way or in another way. It is legitimate that there are these differences. However, the basic direction of this double budget – and I take this from this discussion – is in fact largely modo in consensus not only of the government parties, but also of the opposition set correctly: to strengthen growth, to support the goal of full employment and to strengthen the social cohesion of society. That is the objective of our budgetary policy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That is why, from my point of view, the focus is also quite right in this context. There is, of course, the continuation of the massive investment measures in infrastructure. I believe that this is one of the crucial prerequisites that we strongly support growth and employment, that we greatly expand infrastructure investment in road, rail, broadband and in all areas where we need it. That's what we do! This will be one of the priorities in the next few years. Just like investment in research, development and education. These are the tasks of the future, ladies and gentlemen. And we are also good here, quite well in the European section. The fact that we are at the forefront of growth in research and development, if not at the top of the European Union, shows that we are giving the right signal with this budget. We also give the right signal in the labour markets. I said we could actually knock on the shoulder right now and say: We're good on the road, but it's not enough. Investments in the labour market are part of these budget priorities. I tell you from the experience I have from many conversations with the economy: We need more – this is certainly an appeal to the social partners! – focus on the question of qualification and post-qualification, ladies and gentlemen! We will go into a development that we have a labour shortage on the one hand – many businesses are already saying that they need highly qualified workers, otherwise they can no longer accept the orders – and on the other hand, we still have more than 200 000 unemployed. This is a policy task, but not just by continuing what has been so far, but by investing in post-qualification, in the skills offensively in the labour market, so that we can also achieve both with the careful opening up of labour markets, namely strengthening full employment and supporting growth. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we are investing in the future tasks, such as the climate fund. It is interesting what has also been critically said here. With all due respect for criticism of the opposition, but one thing we already take on our cap: We are the first European country to invest properly in the future, ladies and gentlemen, according to the new European climate strategy with the Climate Fund. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I spoke to the representatives of the EIB yesterday at the opening of the European Investment Bank's regional office here in Vienna, and they say: Smart how you do it! – They are very interested in developing joint projects with us, also investing in them, because they say, especially in the field of energy and climate, that the ecological and economic opportunities are not only close to each other, but also equal to coverage. And we want to make this useful, ladies and gentlemen, also through investments in renewable raw materials and, of course, energy efficiency. The question of social cohesion has been raised. Everyone who has read the budget knows: We have already implemented concrete steps, such as the compensatory allowance. We have made massive changes in the area of family, such as the better consideration of the multichild family. This is important to me, which is important to us, because there is a proper perspective, also for the social dimension and the cohesion of a society. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] On some of the issues raised, ladies and gentlemen. We will again hold the debate with you, Mr Van der Bellen: Yes, we are in a situation where we can probably expect a slightly better budget implementation because we have carefully budgeted – by the way, in this sense conservative budgeting is quite a compliment; I understand that you have expressed a compliment with it – but we must ask ourselves then: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] If we really have a better budget, what do we use these resources for? My conviction is: We need to invest additional funds, which we have through the better budget implementation, in deficit reduction and thus debt reduction, ladies and gentlemen, because this will only give us the margin for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] We have been intensively sitting together in the Euro Group and have been given massive support for this course. Why? – Again, Mr Krainer: You have also joined the speaker's desk here and have said: Then we could invent new expenditure. [[Abg. Krainer: Meeting in the government program!]] I'm telling you why I'm on the brake here: In contrast to revenue, expenditure is never based on economic development, but once they are based on a federal law, they are given. [[Abg. Rädler: The Debt-Crainer!]] And that's why I'm telling you: In the sense of this house mind, it is reasonable to use positive budgetary development to reduce debt, because in future we will create the scope we need for what we have done. The interest question, Mr Van der Bellen, will continue to be discussed. I have offered you – that will come as well –: The ÖBFA, our truly professional “debt agency” – under quotation marks – will give you a speech and an answer. And a explanation for the question you have raised may be that ÖBFA has better debt management than other debtors. We have therefore also opened the ÖBFA, you know that; the offer is that other local authorities and legal authorities can also use this institution. I hope that you will also accept this invitation so that we can manage our debts in a more favourable way. Last comment on tax reform: Yes, it is our goal to implement this tax relief in 2010. Why? – Because I am firmly convinced that political responsibility must now be used in the first years in order to create the scope for tax reform, for example through a reform of the administration, such as through a state reform, for example through the budget implementation, which is quite rigid. That's what I'm responsible for. But we also need to find the right time. I think that, in the sense of economic development, this tax relief in 2010, which we are doing, is also properly set by economic development, because it then strengthens growth and then also supports full employment. That's our understanding. It would be completely fatal, ladies and gentlemen, now to give in to the call – this one comes from many sides – to relieve taxes in the high economy. This is a wrong economic policy. We have to do it when the economy needs the right impulse, the economy needs the right impulse, growth needs the right impulse, and purchasing power needs the right impulse. Therefore, we remain with this way: It is the path of economic policy reason, it is the path that strengthens growth and supports full employment. Finally, ladies and gentlemen – a few minutes can't be said, but a few quarter hours before the decision-making process – I would like to thank my colleagues in particular. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Federal Ministry of Finance has high-professional employees, who are required in each of their tasks, on the one hand, to the task of budget creation, but also in every other task of a principle – as much as to the current discussion – that is: Compliance with and respect for the rule of law. I express my thanks to my employees for their commitment to the rule of law and otherwise nothing. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61775	The next item is Mr Themessl. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61797	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to repeat one more motion for a resolution: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Auer, with one thing I give you the right to say: It will be to be considered how we intend to hold the four-day budget debate in this House in the future, because what has been commanded here in four days of lobbying, yes, on hypocrisy by the government parties – so I would like to mention it – and, of course, what I must not forget about misinterpretation or differentiated interpretations in my own statistics, that shouts to heaven. [[Call the ÖVP:Hey!]] I'll give you the right. I am happy to be in a working group to discuss how to proceed in a week's negotiations in the budget sub-committee, which are very good, where I would only expect that in future we will also get clear answers on specific issues – that can be maintained – but then the answers will have to be clearer and more precise than they were in the Committee Week of the Budget Sub-committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But here in this House for four days to discuss almost hot air so that nothing can be achieved at all – and it is really very commendable when my colleague from the Greens, Mr Mag. Rossmann, here, dealing with all the details – this is such a nonsense in this House, because you a) do not bother to listen to it, and b) even if you are convinced that it would be good, then it would not allow your acquittal that you agree. That's fact. - That's it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] [[Abg. Lentsch: We've been listening!]] Now I go to Mr Vice-Chancellor because he was my immediate predecessor. I have already been asked whether I am confident that, after such a dazzling and flourishing speech here in Parliament, I will be able to go to the speaker's desk at all. I can guarantee you, I trust you. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I'll tell you, too. I have previously indicated that so many misinterpretations of various information or statistics are taking place in this House. An example of this has just been returned by Mr Vice-Chancellor. We received the latest unemployment figures two days ago. These amounts in Austria, according to AMS – these are marked unemployment figures, so these are not brain-spinnings or any estimates, as Eurostat always does, but these are figures from the Federal Ministry of Finance: We have 217,000 unemployed in Austria a year ago. This includes 59 000 people in various AMS courses, i.e. 275,000 Austrians are unemployed. [[Abg. Lens: 5.6 percent less!]] You have to tell me that once. Then you're a financial genius! You have to be the Minister of Finance. If you have a workforce potential of 3.2 million workers in Austria, 275,000 who are definitely not in a working relationship, come to 4 per cent unemployment rate, then I would be happy to expect this once the session is over today! They're going to need too long. Then I'll quote you in some things. ==References== In your budget speech, March highlighted certain things and explained what is important to you in the future, including for our future and for our youth. You have said quite clearly here: The main concern in policy is: It is about the future prospects of young people in this country. We must not adjust the prospects for the future of young people in this country by means of debt mountains. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Exactly!]] Then you went on to say – yes, right! –: [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] The debt backpack of the past decades – you have always been there – still hangs hard on our shoulders. After all, it is over €3 000, ladies and gentlemen, that every Austrian has to pay for these debts per year. And despite sensational good economic policies and economics, you make new additional debts: 4 billion € in this year and 3 billion in next year. I've already told you: A responsible financial policy would be one as they do the number one countries. In the meantime, I believe you have admitted this indirectly. According to your statement, we're only number three or four. Last year, Sweden achieved a surplus of 4.7 percent of the gross domestic product in the same conditions, introduced a tax reform in the course of this year and has a surplus of 12.2 billion € in the current budget. This is a responsible financial policy for the future to leave our youth sometime a smaller debt mountain than the one you will leave us now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61913	Next, Mr. Dr. Maier. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e61935	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Not to be angry, Mr. Themessl, but in summary, I would say: If you were to be in pain, you'd have to cry out without a break. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If you claim that the statistics of the labour market figures come from the Ministry of Finance, this shows your ignorance because these statistics come from the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. [[Abg. Themessl: These are your statistics!]] So, you don't even know where she comes from, and then you're trying to interpret. If you had followed Mr Vice-Chancellor closely, you would have noticed that he also stated that the debt service you were addressing results from the years 1970 to 1986. [[Abg. Marizzi: That's not true!]] That's why we pay back now, and that's about 7 billion schilling. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] But, well, that is obviously also the task of your group to say something – we take note of that. But I'll stay with you, actually you'll have to have relatively big pain. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Themessl.]] I have followed the debate on the budget debates and I have found it very interesting, because it has talked about the budget both by Mr Bucher and by Mr Krainer, but also by Mr Weinzinger. It was not quite clear whether a continuation of the budgets or not is taking place. I would think that this should be a little clumsy and just the key facts of economics. In comparison with all the other Member States of Europe, we know that, as far as inflation is concerned, the question of exportation, the question of the labour market situation, unemployment et cetera, is concerned, we have always had a lot of ground. This double budget ensures that we continue to be the top in Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62002	I am still saying that the motion for a resolution, which was read earlier by Mr Themessl, has been properly supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62064	Next, Mr Marizzi, I should like to make a real correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62088	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Chancellor! [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Don't do anything! Mr Maier claimed that the debt was from the 1970s. I'm actually correcting: In the 1980s, i.e. the end of the Kreisky period, the debt was €27 billion, which is 35.4 percent of the government's ratio; in 2006 it was €155 billion, which is 63.2 percent of the government's ratio – and there was the ÖVP. [[Abg. Eßl: That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62158	The next item is Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62180	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! It was yes, I think, not so that in these budget committees the answers were not concrete, it was very different. In particular, we have welcomed the concrete responses of the new Minister of Education Schmied, namely the number of new posts in the teacher sector. The problem is just: If you try to understand the whole thing, whether it is contained in the budget data and especially in the establishment plan – and that is why I have reported myself again – then you will experience much more surprises. [[Abg. Wheeler: Oh you!]] Ms. Schmied has announced to us that in the next school year 404 AHS posts and 226 service posts in the Federal Teachers for higher schools would be created in addition. That makes 630 posts she mentioned in the committee. Then I took the establishment plan and tried to look into the establishment plan where these posts would be found. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can't take that exactly!]] – You can't take that exactly! Yeah, that might be a good clue. – At the AHS you will find 150 posts next year. A discreet indication was then that the school year will only be taken into account from September to December and therefore only one third would be taken into account in the establishment plan. This could still be the case for 2007. The question is: What about those in 2008? Then these 404 posts would have to be completely included and no longer be dissatisfied. What does the 2008 establishment plan say? - Another 150! So, if I take this seriously, that was to say, from the 404 posts that we obtain at the beginning of the 2007 school year, we're going to dismantle 254 posts again, because they're no longer available in the next job plan. That can't be very serious! It becomes even more absurd in the higher schools. That's what we've been called: 226 new posts. I'm looking at the job plan: Technical training institutions, i.e. HTLs, minus 20 posts, tourist training institutions minus three posts, HAKs minus five posts, makes in total minus 28 posts. The number we've been called is plus 226 posts. So, I'm just wondering what's going on here. The difficulty is now: Who are we supposed to believe? The plan? Or the minister? At the same time, we get the particularly exciting answer to the question of how much more than a post of service costs – because then we could also calculate –: A service post – you hear and marvel! – is estimated at €66 000 in the German teacher area. €66 000 for a newly created post of service. I find that remarkable, because that would be a gross relation of over €4,000! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't forget about extra wage costs!]] I think the young teachers deserved this too. However, if you look back in the tables at what they would earn, you get half. Somehow it would be nice to have the figures of the budget – the pieces – fit together in such a way that we can at least agree on the facts. Is there now 630 teachers according to blacksmiths or according to agenda next year 150 minus 28, makes more in total 122 teachers? Are there 630 posts or are there 122 posts? In the long run, I believe, it is extremely unsanitary – if you are always talking about seriality – to present such budget figures in Parliament.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62243	Now comes Mr Mag. Maier speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62274	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Data protection and banking secrecy are essential for Austria's financial centre, as well as for bank customers, consumers and companies. Therefore, it is not to accept High House that, through the Belgian financial service provider SWIFT, American intelligence services are given direct access to transaction data, in particular European entrepreneurs. [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes!]] It is not acceptable for me to accept that these data may be misused. In this context, the European Parliament has also spoken about industrial spying. And I'll give you the right. It is also not acceptable for me to accept if, under American legislation, a nationality, a group of persons is excluded from certain banking services, as was the case with the BAWAG. [[Abg. Wheeler: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Wheelers:... no more influence!]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Data protection issues should be discussed seriously. There is therefore a five-party proposal on this subject. We discussed the issue of SWIFT in detail in the Austrian Data Protection Council, and in the same context also with the access of the United States to the flight passenger data. – It was a unanimous decision; all political groups agreed. I would like to thank all the members of the Data Protection Council, especially the chairman, Dr. Wögerbauer, for the material cooperation quite cordially. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] High house! These are fundamental questions. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It is not American but European and national Austrian law in Europe. It is our job to put forward the decisive bar. With this motion for a resolution, to which you all will agree, the Austrian Parliament, I believe, has taken the decisive step.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62390	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62475	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. Ladies and gentlemen, your group's total residence time is 3 minutes. So after these three minutes, I'd have to take the floor. Therefore, please pay attention to the time! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62496	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! As the last speaker of my group in the course of this budget debate, I would like to make a brief summary, and to this end a beautiful old farmer rule from Styria: If there is a black and red budget in May, it hurts the citizen for two years! – Under this title, I think this can be summarized perfectly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: You had to study there for a long time! Worked on it for weeks!]] For example, the Federal Chancellor referred to the negotiated budget as “expression of the turn of the times”. He said that Austria, with this budget, was part of the social avant-garde in Europe. – Well, avant-gardes are usually understood by people who leave out of the way and start new, groundbreaking developments. That is true, and once again the red and black emergency community is showing itself, leaving the way that has really left, namely the common path with the citizens, the people in this country! In addition, for example, the lack of tax reform, which is not implemented despite the high economy, is what we have called for. A government deficit of around €8 billion is also included: Each Austrian pays €3 050 per year in interest for € 168 billion, of which we do not manage to reduce them, and for which – in order to stick to the truth – the SPÖ is not solely responsible. – We have already given enough light to this too. It is crucial that we do not agree to this budget – this is what my colleague Lutz has to say. Weinzingerschon said – the lack of priorities, especially in the area of the relief of small and medium-sized enterprises, where nothing happens, and in the area of family taxation, for which we have a very good model, but unfortunately is not taken into account. Let me take a little look at how you yourself have designated this budget! It is: good, great, responsible, prudent, future fit, europefit, generation fit, super, sustainable, anticyclic, economic, countered, satisfactory, excellent, pleasing, welcome, a budget of reason, a budget with black handwriting, with red handwriting, a budget with a high-level future orientation, a smart mixture, meet the challenges, even with fresh wind a trend turn. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Thank you!]] It is: meaningful, positive, successful, transparent, high-quality, prosperous, healthy, contemporary, socially balanced, safe, acceptable, praiseworthy, confident, comprehensible, an extreme success, effective, optimistic. [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I congratulate you on this budget! Setting up this budget was an art – and you managed to do so, because the setting up of a budget is an art, but only the one that evenly distributes disappointments. That is the conclusion of the Freedom Party to this budget!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62591	Mrs Tamandl is now speaking. 3 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62612	Madam President. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! Mr Marizzi, you had referred to Mr Maier's comments as an actual correction. If you do, you should stick to the truth: In 1982, debt was only 27 billion in the federal sector, but general government debt was 34 billion. – And that was already 40 percent of GDP at the time. So if you're already speaking, please stick to the truth! – Then please read it! Mr Rossmann! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But as long as comparable GDP series do not exist, Mrs Colleague, it has already begun!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Statistics Austria does not count so long GDP series at all! That's it!]] Don't rain up like that! You used to like me as an expert in the budget hearing almost better than here in plenary, because here you have only made things bad. I feel turned back on last Tuesday when we discussed the budget accompanying laws, and I can think that some of you left your speeches in front of us today from Tuesday. Mr Zanger, too, repeatedly believes that we would not implement a tax reform, which is not foreseen in the budget. This is what other colleagues, like Mr Themessl, have said: We cannot see what we want to do about tax relief and so on. I don't know how many times you have to say this: The Minister of Finance has said so in the Budget Committee, in the Budgetary Hearing. He has also said it again in the chapter on finance, and he has said it again and again in the last few days in his speech here in the House when he has spoken from the government bank. - We're not here for the first day today. It is the fifth day of these budgetary deliberations, and we have also discussed a whole week in the Committee. I mean, if we create the conditions for this and we decide a tax reform here in mid-2009 – and I think and I have said it the last time, we should really debate some things more constructively and not always let go of any opposition screams – we will carry out a tax relief in 2010, a tax reform with a proper volume, a structural reform, as we have already started in 2004/2005 with our tax reform. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's the grievance!]] I can assure you: The ÖVP will be so well equipped, we will have such good concepts, we will relieve families, we will relieve workers, and there will be something in it for businesses too. I am pleased, Mr Themessl, that you agree with me too. I can only rely on our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer. He will make it excellent, and we will also continue the successful course of recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62704	Mr Haberzettl is now speaking. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62725	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I should like to focus very briefly on the area of federal property and mention some of the conspicuous points in this regard. I think it is clear to all of us that the proceeds from the sales proceeds and the equity stakes on the one hand and, on the other, the acceptance of the federal liability for the assessment are crucial. I would like to mention very briefly the loss of profits of the Austrian National Bank, which in 2003 and 2004 has been relatively low with €900 million, has fallen in the same strength in recent years, and finally made up 212 million in the 2006 federal estimate, while in 2007 and 2008 it is forecast with 131 million and 200 million respectively. – One could talk about what the cause is, but I think there is a lack of it, today also the time. The dividends of the ÖIAG will also be significantly lower in 2007 and 2008 than in 2006 and are forecast at €200 million each. The divestments of equity investments are no longer planned in the years 2007 and 2008 de facto, and the planned divestments of real estate are also significantly below the success of 2006. For the assessment of the sustainability of planning 2007 and 2008, the level of revenue from one-off measures is important. These amounted to around € 570 million in 2006 compared with other budget chapters, however, while also involving them. In the 2007 and 2008 budget drafts, they are also much lower; they amount to 115 million and 2008 only to € 86 million. In the next two years, therefore, there is a clear stagnation of the state's sales policy, ladies and gentlemen, and that is a good thing. Finally, I would like to say: I think it's a typical compromise budget. However, it is a real turning point in the areas of social democracy. Mr Vice-Chancellor, I wish you a great deal of success in implementing the budgets. You know, of course, that some small things I'd rather have rated higher, but I still think it's a budget that we both can successfully implement together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62780	Mr Mitterlehner has now come to speak. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62802	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haberzettl, I must say that it is not a certain irony when, as a trade union, you are talking about restricting public sales policy. – You have had to sell a lot yourself, but good, well-occupied. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] However, I did not want to speak on this subject in itself, but rather to three key figures, which from our point of view can be very positive. First: We are developing what the deficit is going on, from 0.9 percent this year to 0.7 percent next year, then 0.2 percent towards zero deficit. The pleasure of this: It is not a self-interest because, on the other hand, we are not stifling economic growth by a too strong, too tight, savings rate. Secondly, Next year, the debt ratio is below 60 percent for the first time with 59.9 percent. – This is very positive because we – Sweden and other countries have been mentioned – can now also do more in terms of infrastructure and other measures. Thirdly, Next year, the tax and tax rate is 41.5 percent – a wonderful development. That means, on the other hand, we should also be careful in expenditure to avoid negative developments, since they are not economic-dependent, but determined – otherwise, the citizen has nothing of it. I would like to comment on what Mr Zanger referred to as a summary by the Freedom Party: First of all, we have noticed in the tax revenue that the Köst reform has not harmed us. On the contrary: We have more revenue – also due to economic growth, that is already clear, and also through a certain restructuring. In 2006, we had 1 billion € in revenue, and this continues accordingly – also in 2007 and 2008. But what is interesting, because he said yes, for small and medium-sized enterprises nothing is done: ==References== January 2007 is a law for revenue-expenditure calculators, through which there is a 10 percent investment premium up to € 100 000, and on the other hand also a three-year loss premium. – All of this is now affecting in these two years, and it is a positive measure. In conclusion: Mr. Vice-Chancellor! I have seen with joy that the budget report on page 47 already states that the car tax is reduced accordingly in order not to narrow our competitive position. [[Abg. Sburny: There's a lot there! There's a lot in there!]] We have not yet decided in the budget accompanying law, but what I agree positively: The budget already foresees a reduction in revenue from 140 million to 90 million de facto in 2008. It is the hope that we will actually reduce the taxes for the companies – we have driving power-dependent taxes anyway, but on the other hand, the taxes that are not dependent on the driving performance. That is why, in my opinion, this is a serious budget, a budget that is just under-calculated, but which nevertheless sets the right impetus.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62870	Mrs Hagenhofer is now speaking. 3 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62892	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Appreciate listeners! Austria is extremely competitive and, ladies and gentlemen, the performance of all businesses and all employees in that country. The framework conditions, as well as the resulting macroeconomic impact of these financial laws, summarized in the budget, support and strengthen the current good economy and provide further stimulating incentives for the economy in general. This, in turn, promotes employment growth. There will be additional full-time jobs, which is very important, but we must not lose sight of the ever-increasing number of part-time jobs. This also reduces unemployment, and this is very much in line with the objective of this government agreement to reduce unemployment by 25 per cent within this legislative period, and is therefore pleasantly opposed to the zero deficit experiment of the former Minister of Finance, ladies and gentlemen! – I have to say that already today. This earlier zero-deficit experiment has found its final impact right at the moment of the international economic downturn, with massive social and economically unbearable cuts in incomes of the weakest population in our country and thus weakening the internal economy, so that unemployment has increased. – That is exactly what this budget represents, ladies and gentlemen. This budget also creates the Spagat that the budget will continue to be consolidated – we have heard this several times today – and is at the same time being invested in sustainable growth. The focus in investment expenditure is on education, social affairs, raising minimum pensions, research and development, infrastructure programmes and € 5.36 billion for active and active labour market policies. All these measures, ladies and gentlemen, bring together a clear reduction in unemployment, which, as I have already mentioned, is the main objective of this Federal Government under the leadership of our Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer. These investments, ladies and gentlemen, will lead to Austria being more socially, fairer and competitive while consolidating the budget. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62952	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Schools. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e62973	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Appreciate High House! First of all, allow me a preliminary remark to my colleagues from the Socialist Group. [[Call the SPÖ:Only the men?]] – To the ladies, too. I am personally very pleased that we are now working together constructively on a good future for Austria, and the speeches that move in the constructive are doing us all well. - I like it now. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Convinced the difference too early. We now jointly decide on a budget that has been consistently implemented. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is there also an accession form?]] – Mr Westenthaler! You will also experience it once again that you belong to it again. That'll be all right. We are experiencing the consistent implementation of a negotiated programme and we have now seen – in the light of the detailed discussion in the committees – that what Mr Vice-Chancellor has negotiated in a few days with all the ministers of the resort is a programme with a very clear web pattern: Not only has it been possible for the development of prosperity, education, research and the social field to be strengthened together, but it has also succeeded in intertwining such a thing as a green band through all sectors dealing with environmental and climate protection measures. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why your green tie!]] The great thing is that we really find this in all our departments: on the green electricity issue, on biofuels blending, on the development of public transport, on the reasonable development of road construction; the federal procurement will change; there is the environmental programme in agriculture. – In a variety of areas, it turns out that this idea of offensively dealing with climate protection actually brings effective impetus. In recent days, we have also implemented the Climate and Energy Funds, which has now been discussed in the Council of Ministers and will enter into force. In addition, €500 million will be offered during this period and will trigger a real ‘turbo’, which will significantly improve the energy consumption in Austria, because this climate and energy fund will encourage the best forces of Austria and encourage them to take care of this topic. That is to say, companies, researchers, people like you and I will try to spread these thoughts, and the competence of Austria will be given a special boost in these areas in international competition. This cross-sectional matter of climate protection shows me that we are consistently implementing – and this budget shows that! – in this area, a growth boost, a shift in competence and, ultimately, a shift to prosperity will be achieved while at the same time achieving climate change objectives. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am therefore very glad that we have received this budget and have discussed it in this way and will be happy to decide with you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63075	Mr Matznetter has now spoken. Since the total period of residence of SPÖ is 13 minutes, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that everything that goes over 10 minutes of speaking time will be withdrawn from your group. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63097	Madam President. High house! A great deal has already been done on this budget, and I think a central message remains in any case: It was a budget which was drawn up in a very practical manner in a very short time and which tried to find a balance between the need to make the necessary savings in times of good economic activity, and the need to mobilise at the same time all the necessary resources so that we can continue to develop well for education reform, active labour market policy, for safety and research and development, for universities and for health. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 95 percent of the grass!]] In the last few weeks, when we present our budget course internationally, it is clear that Austria is now benefiting from the times of good international economic development – we hope this year, as in 2006, for a growth of more than 3% – that we will use the “good times” to get those areas in the budget to carry out the tax reform in 2010, which can reduce the deficits in the structure of Austrian taxes or hopefully eliminate them in certain areas. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to work that out. It is no secret that my group would have wished for a structural tax reform with counter-financing in the government negotiations. We have agreed that we will do so in the form of a corresponding budget consolidation in 2010 without counter-financing, and we are working on it. I think this is a reasonable compromise, and with these budgets it is clarified that the government parties are willing and willing to pursue this course very carefully, very seriously and very plannedly. Of course – that’s no secret! – it’s a difficult path. Saving staff is something that doesn't go easy. However, it was a special effort of this Federal Government – and I am particularly grateful to Mrs Bures, who has been working with a lot of verve – to make it possible throughout all the departments to use the natural exit with the post-employment two, in order to achieve an appropriate reduction of the staff level in the public sector on an ongoing basis. Of course, we do when criticism is expressed, as did Mr Rossmann, that the Federal Ministry of Finance did not participate sufficiently in the reduction in this area. I would simply like to compare the figures: First: In the case of the planning offices, the narrower area of the department – consisting of the ministries, the financial offices and the subordinate or independent departments such as the independent financial Senate – will be reduced from 12 927 in 2006 to 12 474 and next year to 12 404. It is important, however, that there is a reduction in actual posts – namely full employment equivalents – because that is the honest number. If a person is only part-time on a plan post, this is a very reasonable measure, which makes it easier for very dedicated and well-appointed colleagues to bring work and career together with childcare and to fulfil all their obligations. If you look at full employment equivalents, I can point out that the category of 11 689.23 – once again narrower – is reduced to 11 478.96 – current occupation status in 2006. That is to say, we are also reducing the full employment equivalents in the area with regard to actual hours. We therefore fully fulfil the savings in the actual zoning of the staff in the area of the Federal Ministry of Finance. I can say at this point that we have done this disproportionately in the field of service posts. Since 2000, this has resulted in a total reduction of around 17 000 employees to 13 400 this year, and I think that continuing along this path in the next few years is an appropriate development which is quite in line with the savings target. I would like to say that I would like to thank the employees in the financial sector at this point. It is not a pleasant job to collect taxes. [[Abg. May. Arbitrators: Numbers are still unpleasant!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Uncomfortable is to pay them!]] It is not the most pleasant activity to be responsible in the area of budget. However, fewer staff are more demanding for workers in the labour market, and for colleagues who work there, they need to do more in the same time. I would like to thank the employees in this area who make it possible to provide a perfectly functioning financial management with their diligence and commitment. In addition to all the day-to-day disputes, one will, in fairness, also set out among the opposition parties: We have a great financial administration. So to speak, I can say this in memory of the time as a member of the opposition: There was never any criticism of that. The Austrian financial administration works well, completes its activity properly and has deserved that, in all savings, consideration be given to employment conditions. In this sense I also congratulate this House on this budget and think that this government is on a very good path with this double budget. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63168	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63189	Madam President. Estimated government members! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For years we have been in a redistribution process – keyword: Globalisation – which we cannot escape either in Austria. We can only counteract our possibilities. But exactly the opposite has happened in recent years: A way has been pursued that will rich the rich even a little faster and make the poor a little faster. Just this time is the phase of high season for companies that promise profits and wealth, high season for bet or plant suppliers. A part of this is the hedge funds, which we have been able to discuss in the Committee, which, as long as everything goes well, can reduce market volatility and can thus be a stabilising factor. On the other hand, however, it is also necessary to point out that there is also high potential for loss in the case of high returns. The fact that far more than € 1,000 billion is spent in just a hundred funds also indicates that the failure of a single fund can lead to uncontrolled reactions on the world markets. It is therefore essential that investors are fully and sufficiently informed, sufficiently informed about the impact, activities and strategies of the Funds. But it is also necessary to have a functioning financial market surveillance. We know precisely on the basis of the current Committee of Inquiry, that the financial market supervision in Austria is to be repaired at the head and the members, and I think that the investigation committee will also provide the corresponding repair rates. It is interesting that in the light of BAWAG, AMIS, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other issues of the Finance Ministers, self-regulation is still needed. We Socialists, like the European Union, advocate regulations, regulations that create a balance between security, transparency, control on the one hand and capital market compatibility on the other – of course, this is necessarily in the European and international equations. I should therefore like to ask the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State in the interests of stable financial markets to make an effort to achieve this equality. I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63231	Mrs Lentsch is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63253	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! The Minister for Finance will come immediately, and I would like to thank him for the double budget he has drawn up so quickly and which we will then also decide on, not only but above all I would like to congratulate him very warmly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think we can all be satisfied with this federal budget. What we have done financially for the next few years is realistic. I am very glad that this realism has also entered the SPÖ in the meantime, because no one says any more: “I prefer a few billion more debts than a unemployed person.” Today we know for a long time that this invoice is only going up in the short term, because debt is the result of new debts in the long term. Our course is therefore to reduce government debt, reduce the budget deficit; in 2010 that will also be balanced. We save on administration, and we spend more where it is necessary in education, research and safety. Of course, the good economy also helps us; that is a fact that we all know. The experts expect the unemployment rate to continue to decline. But here too we have done our homework and implemented the necessary reforms. As a company location, we have made Austria more attractive, economically and, of course, fiscally, we have privatized the state companies – or at least most of them – and we have made many small earners completely tax-free in the last tax reform, which naturally stimulates consumption, and we have greatly expanded the infrastructure. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] - What's wrong with that, Mr. Ollinger? [[Calls to the Greens.]] All in all, we have made the necessary reforms, and that is now the result. Because the upturn is taking place in all areas. Above all, the labour market is a strong response to the fact that we are facing full employment. In April alone, the unemployment rate fell by 5.6 percent, and that is a good thing. What is actually strange to me is the permanent statements of the SPÖ – at national level, such as at press conferences in the Burgenland, here in the High House or also at the federal level – that economic growth has increased because you are now in the government, and that the unemployment rate has fallen because you are now in the government. We have done a lot of preparatory work here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That's a wishful thought of you. You're completely passing by reality here, believe me the, dear ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63307	This is what Mrs Maij-Weggen has to say. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63329	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! High house! In recent years, financial management has been generally reformed. The establishment and administration of the financial and customs administration has been completely reorganised. This led to a reduction in the financial offices from 80 to 41, the customs office from 62 to 15. The seven financial country directors were dissolved and five tax and customs co-ordinations came instead. The customs guard was outsourced to the Ministry of the Interior. The aim of the reorganisation is to decentralise human and budgetary responsibility to individual offices and to strengthen external services. In the financial sector, domestic and external staff together perform the tasks in so-called teams. The team is run by a leader or a leader, all other levels of leadership have been abolished. The Board of Directors or Board of Directors thus manages the financial office like a company. With the introduction of the eGovernment, the FinanzOnline was opened to all citizens in 2003. As a result of these restructurings, the workforce increased and, of course, expenditure in the staff sector fell significantly. This trend in the financial and customs offices, however, obviously does not apply to the Federal Ministry. This is reflected very clearly in the Federal proposal: In 2007, staff expenditure rose by 18.5 percent; for 2008, although the planning posts are falling by 7.2 percent. In return, the planning sites will be reduced by around 450 and next year by another 70. The following changes are due to the eight large-scale tests with about 700 staff. A change in this unit of organisation should be planned and implemented in the interests of the State with its colleagues – for the reason that the large audit is and should remain the cashcow of the financial management. The large-scale auditors achieved, for example, an additional result of €1.1 billion in 2006 in the course of their audit activity. A warm thanks to all the colleagues in the financial administration who, through their willingness to work, ensure a timely processing and a level playing field every day! Only motivated staff and a well-functioning, conflict-free financial management will continue to be able to ensure that the levy is collected optimally in order to maximize revenue.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63366	Mr Oellinger has now come to speak. You take the total rest period of 18 minutes, I've seen. [[Abg. Oellinger: (on the way to the speaker's desk) No, no!]] How long should I stop? Five minutes. [[Abg. Oils: 5 minutes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63416	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! One thing I find a bit strange after the course of this debate. Mr Rossmann asked you a question on staffing in the central management: Why has it been increased by 18 percent? He said in his speech that he had already put this question in committee. - And he won't get an answer from you. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: The Secretary of State has this...!]] I've been very careful: As regards the central management... [[Abg. May. Rossmann: The entire financial administration was that! Not the central control!]] With regard to the entire financial management, it was answered, but with regard to the central management, there was no answer. Now it may be a mistake to hit the bridge from this non-answer to the blacks in the investigation committee. But if I can take my modest example, Mr Vice-Chancellor, there is already a line of development here: What's going to be You want to answer us in the future? Mr Rossmann did not answer the question of cost increases in the central management. When I ask about it: Which persons, ordered by name, were employed in the ministerial office, and on what basis, namely civil service law, contract service law, based this service relationship?, then explain to me in a request answer: This is a matter of data protection! They are thus the only minister of this federal government who claims that the designation of the names of Cabinet employees, including the nature of their employment relationship, falls within the scope of data protection! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Sure!]] Oh, that's true, you say. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Yes!]] May I remind you – you obviously also have a problem with your own memory, Mr. Klubobmann – that you have answered it quite correctly in your time as Federal Chancellor. Of course! All ministries call it the name and type of employment, which is so common, and there is no data protection at all. [[Abg. Dr. stupid:... secrets!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schussel:... I don't know!]] Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, it is honorable that you are now going out to help Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: You want to know the salaries! That's all!]] It honors you, but it doesn't help in the matter. The thing has been eaten. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You want the glass man!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Your predecessor, Mr. Finanzminister Grasser, has of course called the names of the Cabinet staff in his early days. What is the problem with calling the names of the cabinet staff when they can be found on your homepage? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Uh, yeah!]] What's the problem? [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Exactly! What's the problem?]] Since inside, when it comes to parliamentarians, you call it... [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Read Homepage!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Read Homepage!]] This is interesting: If it is on the homepage – the representatives of the ÖVP – we are allowed to read it, but if a Member asks it inside, then he will not receive an answer. Are we already so far as Members are allowed to know less and to know less about you in the exercise of their control rights than any ordinary citizen/citizen? Are we ready, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Shrewd excitement!]] Is that your answer to the problem? Let's go to the investigative committee. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: He has nothing to say about the budget!]] That's incredible what you're following in the consequence of this line: Here you do not answer the questions, on parliamentary questions do not give an answer, and in the investigation committee you are weakening! Mr Vice-Chancellor, can we also expect to receive blackened or whited answers in the future? Is that the consequence? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I would like to say once again to you on the subject of questioning: All ministries have no problem answering the questions as they were asked. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Do you have anything to say to the budget?]] All ministries! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: You don't think of the budget?]] The only vice chancellor has the problem and explains, I can't say that... [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Say something to the budget!]] Please? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But you already know we're talking about the budget?]] I think it belongs to the budget to know how many officials are in the central management and why there is a cost increase in the central management. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: That belongs to the budget, what the employees deserve?]] I think that's part of the budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] Mr Klubobmann, you are trying to take up my speaking time. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: No, no!]] That's nice and good, but I think it belongs to the budget to know how many people with which names are occupied with which service conditions in a cabinet. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: With what references!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: You just want to know the references! Naughty hammer!]] If this goes on, Mr Klubobmann or Mr Vice-Chancellor, as you have indicated in your reply to the question – that Members have no right! Then we'll think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63751	Now comes Mr Mag. Ikrath to speak. 4 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63773	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Maier. We fully agree that data protection is of enormous importance in people's money lives. That is why we have raised banking secrecy in the constitutional order, which is why we take data protection seriously, and that is why we take tax secrecy seriously. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] So far, I have also felt that there is a consensus in this House on this fundamental civil right. Unfortunately, I can no longer maintain this opinion because of the recent approach of the Green Group. In recent weeks, the Green Group has violated the right to tax secrecy, the right to data protection – well, I say it salopp – in a massive way, one can also say: step with feet. This is found to be judicial, at least in the case of Mr Pilz. And to this day we have received no clarification from the Green Group, from Professor Van der Bellens: How does this group feel about citizens' rights in the future? [[Abg. Brosz: If you don't even know...!]] How does it cope with the right to data protection? And how does it actually deal with the question of tax secrecy? It is difficult to understand and not very credible to agree today to a motion for a resolution on data protection, but at the same time to measure people's rights by two measures! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] And I'll say something. Citizens' rights are indivisible, and we also call on the Greens to return to what once existed in consensus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to say something about the motion for a resolution, which is important to me: The issue of SWIFT is a European problem, which can only be solved jointly at European level. This is certainly not a responsibility of Austrian credit institutions in their relationship with their customers. Because due to the monopoly of SWIFT in international payment transactions, individual credit institutions cannot change anything in terms of data abuse done by SWIFT. This is a task at European level. In any case, it must not apply to the Austrian credit industry that according to the well-known folk wisdom the dogs bite the last. Subject to the recognition of this fact, we agree with the motion for a resolution. A final remark to Mr Bucher: He knows I guess he's both human and professional. But if Mr Bucher speaks of tax reduction here today, he should speak to his country captain before, because he has with 1. In January 2006 the tax on tourism increased by 40 to 60 percent, the net income tax increased by 100 percent, the second residence tax significantly increased et cetera, et cetera. [[Abg. Bucher: Charges!]] An appeal to colleagues from BZÖ and Mr Landeshuptmann Haider: You should not take the lead in the Vienna SPÖ as far as tax and tax increases are concerned, nor should you take a lead in the Vienna SPÖ's school policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63850	Now comes Mr Mag. Arbitrators to speak. 3 minutes of welcome; Total period of residence of the Group: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63871	Madam President. Mr. Minister and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Because my previous speaker spoke of whether to take an example at the Wiener SPÖ or not, I believe that this can be easily answered for an ÖVPler: The Vienna ÖVP should not be used as an example, because you do not have a country party as weak as the Vienna ÖVP! – It was, I think, important to stress once again how weak the Vienna ÖVP is in total. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Therefore, it is relatively ridiculous to criticize the Wiener SPÖ. [[Abg. Grillitsch: Is it about the budget now or about the ÖVP?]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] However, the new budgetary policy is also evident here if you look at how to deal with federal assets. It is true that a final line has been drawn here under the Luftikus policy, which has ruled over the past seven years, removing the currency reserves of the Oesterreichische National Bank. Karl-Heinz Grasser, for his budget cosmetics, has also massively tapped the National Bank – as not a Social Democratic has said, but also the daily newspaper “The Press” – and from 2000 to 2006 currency reserves were massively reduced, almost €10 billion, especially by over-disbursement. This path is now over, and that's good. Instead, the double budget that we will decide today sets the right priorities: more money for infrastructure, more money for social justice, more money for education and more money for climate protection. Reasonable priorities instead of budget tricks, I think this is the right way, because it also ensures that the upturn that is taking place at the moment not only takes place, but also benefits all people. That is why we will also vote in favour of this budget, because it bears red handwriting.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63926	Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e63947	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr Oellinger's report has been put together before that time to speak to the budget. That is exactly what he has done, of course, because he has drawn attention to the economic aspects. That's what we're gonna do now. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Mr Pilz should resign as committee chairman!]] You know very well that this year we have not only €500 million of the burden from the Eurofighter payments that Maastricht-relevantly flows out of the budget. The debt level after Maastricht is much higher, because that is what has so far been, and already before, rejected by the BAWAG, by Eurofighter, so to speak, in pre-financing for this absurd procurement. So that's undisputed once. Now there is a mandate from Parliament to examine this process carefully – and to save what is to be saved. There's still enough to save, that's all. All this! This is also a small tip to the SPÖ: It's still about the whole thing, not about 12 or 18 Eurofighters! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The National Council shall issue an investigative mandate and the investigative committee shall work. In the course of the investigations, we come to it – on the basis of a witness survey, not from the outset – that it would actually be very useful and appropriate to investigate it, by the authorities, just as they are designated in the Rules of Procedure, in the law and in the Constitution, to demand file, in the case of tax acts, because Mrs Rumpold himself has given an indication that the financial system has been in the house for a year and a half and a half, and that almost everything is palette. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Mr. Pilz should step back!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer]] This has been a very helpful indication. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: According to the law...!]] The Rumpold file, at least as regards the one company of the several rumpolds, was then also recognizable to us. What has been demonstrated here has been too much for the ÖVP – admit it! –: Two thirds of the revenues of Eurofighter/EADS via Steininger cannot be demonstrated! Or do you want to claim that it is common practice in the industry that there are marketing fees of 200 to 250 percent? [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: But that mushroom...!]] That's exactly when interceptors are bought? Just when orange and black ministers are working, an orange agency gets an order and then some secrecy clauses are supposed to prevent them from saying? – But we helped ourselves with this tax act. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] And because that hit the black one, you're nervous now! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Speaking of black: A black minister, who is also vice-chancer and party chairman of a black party – you just gave yourself the party color – a black minister transmits black files, while you ask yourself very slowly what the whole thing has for a purpose, except possibly to hide black cash in parties the same color. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Explain This is what you are here, Mr Vice-Chancellor. This is in need of information. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Take this back!]] [[Interference of Vice-Cancellor Mag. Molterer.]] It is no longer possible to explain any other motive, Mr. Federal Minister! There are enough opinions to draw your attention and point out that it is at least not in the sole decision-making of financial officials, which belongs to the subject matter of investigation or not. Rather, in case of doubt it is exactly the other way round! The fact that any confidentiality rules then pass on to the committee is a second question. This is, by the way, held in all civilised democracies as can be seen in practice in the Federal Republic of Germany, which in this case is a model once again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Very weak speech!]] But let's stick to the practice here. In the meantime, other tax acts are more clear Decisions of the Committee were requested and received by a majority. But whether we can still describe this as a file is another question, Mr Vice-Chancellor: There are hundreds of pages missing, and then there are pages on which now no longer the blackness dominates, but the whitening because you cover everything possible. And the few lines that look out are overpainted in your party color. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] Only: In at least one case, the attempt to cover up is a terrible failure. You have been able to convince yourself today. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel:... to the budget not to say anything!]] It is a line – and this must be made known to the public – in which it is quite clear that it is transfers/money transfers in which EADS/Steininger plays a role, has been blackened! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now I ask you, Minister of State, Mr Molterer, to comment on this: Which orders did you give to your officials? Who else is responsible for this? – Stop You're not always this simple palaver “We hold the tax secret” if this is not explicitly the case here: EADS/Steininger are subject to investigation! Please explain the opposite here, on the spot! You have every opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64136	Mr Steindl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64158	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! Mr Kogler, you have today confused the stage of the Committee of Inquiry with the budget debate. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm coming back to the budget debate. It is already amazing that some Members have meant today, we are continuing the budget. [[Abg. Oillinger: We want to save!]] [[Further call-ins]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Mr Steindl, we want to save!]] Some say we don't continue the budget. I tell you, we are continuing a success story, and will justify why. [[Bravorufe at ÖVP]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I compare the 2002 figures with today's figures, this is really a success story of the special class! We had revenues of around €54.9 billion in 2002; now, according to the 2007 budget estimate, we have revenue of €63.2 billion. This is ultimately a nominal increase of about 15 percent – and this in the case of a reduction in the tax rate from 45 to 41 percent! It's supposed to be one of them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I still have the panic of the opposition parties in my ears when it was called: As a result of this tax reform, the financial crisis of the Republic would break out and countries would no longer be able to finance it. – The opposite has happened, ladies and gentlemen: We have been able to transfer €13.4 billion to the municipalities and countries in 2002 and we can transfer €15.1 billion in 2007. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] I am very, very glad that the government of Schüssel had the courage to address and implement the tax reform in this order. Finally, economics is clear to all that a low tax rate greatly improves the economic location. I am glad that the Minister of Finance continues this path and this course. The economy, Mr Finanzminister, will thank you for this with new record employment figures, and the workers will be very happy and will ultimately benefit greatly from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64251	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes welcome. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64272	Madam President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! A sentence on Mr Kogler. We are for complete transparency, for information. All that is involved in the examination mandate of the Committee of Inquiry is to be clarified on the table. But I also say something to you, Mr Kogler, to the address of your group and, above all, to the Chairman of the Committee on Pilz: As long as there is a Member of this House, Mr Pilz, who has already been sentenced several times for passing on secrets to media, as long as there is such a Member here, who is the chairman of the committee, I am really glad that there are responsible politicians and also responsible officials in the Ministry of Finance who do not let you sniff into every tax act, Dr. Pilz! [[Abg. Oil: After hello!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. The Deputy Minister of Finance!]] I'm very, very glad that's the case. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You do not have the right to play as an instance that decides on which private file is consulted and in which not. [[Call:Genau]] You do not have the right to take an insight into acts of unspoiled citizens. And you do not set the limits, but the limits set the law. And the law is perfectly clear, Mr Pilz. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] To the budget itself. Mr Matznetter, you said a sentence that almost had fun with me: Actually, it's a bit unpleasant to collect taxes. Of course, you meant the officials of your house. Yes, that is true, and I am also a member of an opposition party not to respect these zealous officials of your home and to say thank you for the work. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: They don't have it easy!]] That too is at the end of such a budget debate. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But, Mr Matznetter, do you know what is much more unpleasant about lifting taxes? - to pay taxes. That's a lot more unpleasant. And do you know when it's particularly unpleasant? – If the tax revenues are tossing, bubbling and bubbling, and yet you continue to raise taxes and burden people. Then you don't like to thank the taxpayers, because that's what you've failed to do. Well, that would have been the case. But you know that this is pathetic and cynical, because you never get this thanks to taxpayers because they feel embarrassed, burdened, and suffocated. That is why you have left this thank you to the taxpayers too, and I say that this budget is a budget of the burden and the levy, Mr Matznetter. Only a correction to Mrs Hagenhofer from SPÖ, who has spoken here – I almost had to smile – has explained how much her party is against this zero deficit fetish. – Madam honourable Member, I can remind you that your party president was Mr Gusenbauer, who publicly demanded a constitutional anchoring of a zero deficit. That was your colleague. The memory is obviously relatively short, which has reached the last weeks and months. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter.]] He demanded it, so it is. Mr Cap, at the end of this debate you were also included in the main book: We are likely to vote on the 50 motions for resolutions, opposition initiatives, and I am going to bet you: They will remain in the hands of all these initiatives and will not vote in favour. Now you can say that it is all so bad for God's sake, against every request there is an argument. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But I can still remember the words of the clubman Cap at the beginning of this legislative period, in front of the television camera, at television discussions: The new parliamentaryism breaks out. We will take a very close look at what the opposition is all about, and we will also take good initiatives. I am very grateful to you for this – once it has succeeded, when it comes to pronouncing a professional ban on sexual offenders – that our request, as a request of all parties, unfortunately other than the Greens, is accepted by a majority. But that's a little bit, that's not the new parliamentaryism, Mr Cap. I would have expected more, more flaming enthusiasm for this parliamentaryism, including what the opposition initiatives are all about. And something in the end, that belongs to you actually also quoted, because it fits so well. There is a comprehensive contribution, an essay by Mr Ulrich Brunner. He'll be a term for you. Ulrich Brunner was a member of the SPÖ for 50 years, the state-indefinite of the ORF, editor of the “Worker-Zeitung”, and he writes on 28 March. April 2007, double-sided in the “Spictrum” of the press: “Thank you, friends! ” writes Brunner. “After 50 years of membership, I quit the SPÖ. About the misery of a Social Democratic.” – Ulrich Brunner can be seen on two sides. A quote from Ulrich Brunner: “The frustration and disappointment that Gusenbauer gave up important social democratic demands for the Federal Chancellor’s office and left ÖVP to the more important ministries led to the wave of exit.” And this wave of exit has joined Mr Brunner. He's writing you in the main book. I don't know if you've read it, but the one, very interesting, is justifying his retirement after 50 years of party membership. – If you do not believe it from the opposition, then your long-standing member of the party. To conclude: We have also seen climate change, not only climate change, but also political-climatic differences. A few minutes ago, an ÖVP member was there, who was mistakenly pleased that at least once a positive word came from the SPÖ. In the end, there was another cramp, fight. Austria is being mistreated in this coalition. But what happens now – you could say that we don’t care, we could even be pleased that the coalition is fighting in such a way – but what’s going on in the “Kurier” of Mr. Kalina tomorrow – headline: “The ÖVP is lying” – that’s an interesting thing. That's where you could say: Okay, they're supposed to fight. But, Mr Cap, if you represent your government partner as a whole as a "lying" and what prevents you from finally leaving this government and writing new elections? Do it if you trust in it! But this is not only a dispute where one represents an entire parliamentary party, an entire group as a lie, but I say something to you: This is an evaluation of the entire political debate – and we do not want it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Well, you need it! You just need it!]] This is what you have done with these sentences with which you carry out lump-sum convictions. That's not nice, it's not a good style either. To present an entire party as a liar is not a style, not even in a coalition, but also in a political debate. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] It would be good for you today, now, at the end of the day, where you will then get up together and defuse the opposition proposals and decide together on the budget to take that back. Mr Cap, come out and say: Kalina, that was stupid! This is not a contribution to the debate, and we do not let this level break down either. – It might be a good conclusion to this budget debate.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64416	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64440	Madam President. Too bad I can't talk. – Mr Westenthaler said in his speech that Mr Pilz had been sentenced several times for passing on secret data. I'm actually correcting: This is the untruth, Mr Westenthaler, several times. Mr Peter Pilz has not been condemned in any case. There is therefore no “multiplicity of condemnation” and there has never been a main proceedings in any case, but in Austria and in a rule of law it is customary for a judgment to be given in a main proceedings. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There has already been a judgment! You know that! Although not yet legally valid!]] You may also be able to do this, by speaking. But thank God we have a rule of law, Mr Westenthaler – and not just you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64475	President. — The debate is closed. 6 minutes Total residence time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64498	Look, if the longing for a word is so great, I can fulfill the wish, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler. Just, you really have a courage to go out there and philosophise about party withdrawals. When I think of the story of your party, which was partly responsible for the fact that once after one or two years the government has gone into the “air” when I think that there have been mass withdrawals in your party, when at the end of the party’s leadership has left the party, and then you come out and give a talk about party withdrawals – that’s inconceivable. Go to the Tschauner stage, you'll find an audience for this, but you'll never get inside here. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ as well as with representatives of Greens and FPÖ.]] But it has been almost charming, as you have turned out and started to stand on the side of taxpayers. That too was truly of the “most outstanding. ” After you have been in a government for years – and now listen a little in the first row at the ÖVP – when you have participated for years in a government that has had the largest tax and tax ratio, in which one who has taken a step along with you, namely Karl-Heinz Grasser as the Minister of Finance, actually had the hand in the pocket of all Austrians, so that no one else could go straight on the road, because he had squatted the euro out of his pocket, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthal, then come out and say that the government has failed to thank taxpayers, this is only a joke to the square. Stop it! Test You are at least at the end, if you are already trying to arrogate the final word, to acquire a certain minimum degree of seriousness. It wasn't! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They were massively involved in cutting off taxpayers. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: But there are already tax laws!]] Come out and scatter ash over the head, practice self-criticism – but don't try to turn around the spear somehow, which you didn't quite succeed anyway, because suddenly you were back in the reflex to go side by side with the ÖVP and argue. The question of Parliament is not too inexorably new. This is a very serious question for me, because I really want to take part in this. [[Oje-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] What's that mean? A little more democracy, extension of minority and control rights. Perhaps you are not used to it in your federal state, you from the previous row up there, but I tell you, I think it is important that there is an extension of minority and control rights here, even if you do not like it. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of Greens and FPÖ]] You would be well advised to strengthen Parliament and parliamentaryism. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] It will also be up to you to bring in good ideas here. Thankfully, you have provided an example of where we have worked together. I would also encourage for the future that you do not make reflective two-party requests, but that you try three-party, four-party, five-party requests that you address the ideas of the opposition parties, because I believe they sometimes have good ideas. I don't like to say this. That is what I want to do, and we all want to work for it because it is a new form of Parliament. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The latter is the budget itself: With pride, we can say that we can really recognize social democratic traces in them, and not just traces. [[Lively cheerfulness at the ÖVP and at the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But really only traces!]] Yes, traces of both. The ÖVP has traces in it, we have traces in it, and we have both been determined that it is as balanced and balanced as possible, as it is in a government coalition, both balanced and balanced. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The width of your tracks is very low!]] And now you should think briefly about the time when you were in the government where we were looking for you, because we didn't find you at all on the government bank because you're already somewhere under the table because you didn't enforce yourself. So we put value on that, and we will achieve that in the future. Then you can study the model and admire how you really do it. Just like you didn't bring it together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64607	Mr Pilz has now come to speak. Total period of residence: Seven minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64650	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Many calls from the Austrian People's Party move me to address the word to you: [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Is there an objective link between Eurofighter and the budget? And I'll tell you: Yes, there are clear indications. These notes are based on investments in an order of €2 billion, of which the follow-up costs are around €2.5 billion. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: And counter-businesses of €4 billion!]] Now, the Committee of Inquiry for the Rescue of Austrian State Finances, as it is rightly referred to by the taxpayers concerned, has given several main reasons for saving this money, and I have seen this budget debate as an opportunity to delete these items from the Federal Proposal together with a thick fund. The only thing that exists is the thick felt pen, and it is in the hands of a party leadership, which with fug and law is considered the party of the felt in Austria. The Filze Party is now the party of the Philstift. What is the party of the felt pen doing with the felt pen? - She's blackened. But how does she blacken? I would like to tell you this briefly because my most important witness, Minister of Finance Molterer, is behind me. The Minister of Finance, contrary to and contrary to all the leading constitutional judges and to the legal and legislative service of the Austrian Parliament, decides to abstain from the investigative committee unconstitutional material acts, and instructs its officials to unlawfully censor and blackmail essential documents and documents. On the other hand, the President of the Austrian National Council is officially protesting by means of a letter. Despite this legally good protest, it only has the support of three political groups: SPÖ, FPÖ and the Greens. What happens now in the government of a finance minister who simply takes a right he does not have? – He has a secretary-general named Quantuntschnigg, who is responsible for censorship and who has become preoccupied that every single black act goes over his desk. Secretary General Quantuntnigg designates the officials of the housing finance offices to blacken and censor. These are pointed out to censor everything, to blacken everything and to know everything from the latest – even now there is – where neither EADS nor Eurofighter occurs. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's a fool, Mr. Pilz!]] I would like to give them an example: The act of lobbyist Fred Plattner, who is becoming increasingly important, would have been blackened. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: There is also no connection with the subject matter of investigation!]] There would have been no clue. And wouldn’t be “flying” and “flight” and a lot more in the Wolf-acts: The Committee would have received no knowledge of these acts and payments. So, and now I've asked the Ministry of Finance: Have you provided officials with a list of search terms so that they know what terms are essential in the work of the committee of inquiry and what they can assess the files? - The official tells me: No, no, no, - Then I say: Yes, how are officials in the financial offices supposed to be an opinion to be given to the Committee? – And he tells me: Well, EADS and Eurofighter know them, and the rest can read in the paper. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Yes, Mr. Pilz!]] Read the paper! This is the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. In this way, the work of the Committee of Inquiry, under quotation marks, is “supported”. Mr Molterer, this kind of support can only be characterized by one word: This is the last great and, I hope, in vain attempt to hinder the work of the Austrian National Council's Committee of Inquiry in the interests of EADS and ÖVP! I hope that was the last attempt! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Something else, Minister of Finance Molterer, and I'm not telling a secret here: There will be a final attempt by the investigative committee to offer you an offer that you cannot, in fact, reject legal and practical considerations. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You are not alone in the Committee of Inquiry!]] [[Calls and appeals between representatives of the ÖVP and Greens.]] We are prepared to follow the proposal of the President of the Council and to introduce tax documents of particular confidentiality in the Committee if you are willing to provide us with all the files as it is in the law and the Constitution. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] There has been a very, very reasonable proposal from the President. That's a welcome. But if you do not take this draft seriously if you still represent the line of your clubman Dr. Schüssel – sitting out and diving in the interest of ÖVP and EADS – if you still believe that the interests of your former party observer are more important than the interests of the Republic of Austria, then we will have to consider carefully the examination of Parliament's legal and legislative service, which funds are to be used in your refusals and successful censorship attempts at the moment, then as a committee and as a plenary of the National Council. As an Austrian Parliament, we cannot accept that – against all ruling legal opinions – a member of the Austrian Federal Government is standing on the subject of constitution and laws. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have no right, Mr Mag. Molterer to express his opinion on the opinion of the Constitutional Legislator. Here, this House, is the Constitutional Legislator, the President is the spokesman of the Constitutional Legislator. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But not you!]] And I do not know where with such a political unfrozenness with the thick black felt pen in hand the Constitution, the rights and the dignity of the Constitutional Legislator have been ignored. Mr Mag. Mr Molterer, I call on you to change this behaviour and return to the rule of law and cooperation with Parliament!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64788	Mr Pilz, only the correctness of your quotations that you have made regarding a proposal from the President. This has been a direction from the President since last week. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64821	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Just a few things to clarify. First of all: The dignity of this House is very important and must be safeguarded by everyone, but, Mr Pilz, You're not the house, and you're not the Constitutional Officer. - That's all of us. And that's why: You're no more than anyone else here in this house. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I'll tell you something about it: You have chosen a language here – by the way, in my opinion, completely unnecessary at the end of a rather interesting and factual budget debate – which I do not think is necessary. And why is that so? Are your arguments really so weak that you need to raise the voice and talk about “filz”, “break of constitution” and so on? – I say quite openly to you: The Constitution – on which we are all defended, and you were quite treacherous in your statements – says that we need to protect the airspace, for example. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's why we have to enter into a contract with EADS?]] Is this our commitment – yes or no? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If this is our obligation, Professor Van der Bellen, then you can't use a felt, whatever color, simply paint the airspace surveillance with a dash, save and leave Austria, the country, its citizens and the airspace safe. Then we are all obliged to comply with this. There's nothing to save. There is a need to act wisely in the framework of the laws, in the context of calls for tenders. And that's what we did. Nothing else! And to do that, I'm a hundred percent. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The same is true of the absurd accusation of “censorship. ” Now I'm telling you quite openly: Do you seriously believe that Vice chancellor and Finance Minister Mag. We have seen only one of these files in person, in order to say that we reject it, we cover it, we know it, or we weaken it, so that the Committee of Inquiry does not know anything? - That's absurd! It is the officials who, within the limits of their powers, need to review their obligations now, which documents have to be passed on. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Ah, now the officials are to blame!]] [[Abg. Sburny: That's absurd!]] [[Abg. Oils: This is embarrassing!]] You can be sure that at least nothing will be done by the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance to make the investigation in any way difficult. And I also support him a hundred percent, because we have nothing to hide. It was held once and for all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another point: Mr Cap, Mr Klubobmann-College: You did not address what Mr Westenthaler rightly said, I think. Actually, it is a strange style – and I would like to say that here – if the managing director of the coalition partner tells us in the tomorrow issue of a newspaper that our party has been “lying”. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's huge!]] The fact that you didn't realize anything about it is actually a characteristic of speechlessness that we weren't necessarily used to in the otherwise auspicious and word-knit clubman Josef Cap. I hope it has made your speech out of a certain shame. This behavior is not in partnership with your party friend Kalina. I also say very openly to you: We won't let that happen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I live partnership – but I also expect partnership from one partner, because everything else, ladies and gentlemen, is floskels, everything else is interests of power. Actually, we have joined forces – and we have also been in the negotiating team together – that we want to move something for Austria. But whoever uses all his energy or much energy to dissuade the other partner, lacks strength to move something positive. Therefore, congratulations to the partner Willi Molterer in the government, who lives a completely different style, who has presented a double budget, which contains not only trace elements of your or our ideas, but is a proper budget for the future of this country and its citizens. We thank him for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e64944	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are now coming to a vote which is very extensive, as has already been announced, and I am therefore looking for appropriate attention. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] – Mr Jarolim, this also applies to you. We are now voting on the draft federal financial laws 2007 and 2008, which I am doing separately. The first part of the vote is the draft Federal Finance Act for 2007, together with investments in 39 of the Supplements, as amended by the Committee's report in 70 of the Supplements. On Appendix I, Federal Proposal, the Members of Parliament, Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. Mr Scheibner has also asked for a separate vote on Chapter 20, which is a point of order. Finally, Mr Brosz has made a request for a separate vote on chapters 01 to 06 and on the proposal for a resolution 1/06, sports matters. First of all, I will have to vote on the supplementary or amendment proposals referred to above and the parts of the proposal, affected by the request for a separate vote, then on the remaining parts of the proposal; then on Appendix II, establishment plan, and finally on the text of the Federal Finance Act. I shall put to the vote the motions for resolutions tabled on the draft Federal Financial Act 2007 following the third reading in the order of submission. Thus we come to a separate vote on Chapter 01, Presidency Office, 02, Federal Law, with the exception of the estimate approach 1/02403, as well as on Chapter 03, Constitutional Court, 04, Administrative Court, 05, People's Procuratorate, 06, Court of Auditors, as amended by the Government's proposal. I am looking for a sign of approval for those members of the House who are in favour of these parts of the bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the proposal for a resolution 1/10434. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this. – This is the minority and rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have spoken in favour of this report. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to the proposal 1/10434. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the minority and rejected. I shall immediately vote on the current proposal as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever is for this purpose, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. A amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, refers to the estimate approach 1/1506. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority and rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Graf, fellow Members, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new approach in Chapter 10 on the promotion of displaced persons. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this. – This is the minority and rejected. We now proceed to the separate vote on the proposal 1/06, sports matters, in 39 of the supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 70 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the estimates in Chapter 20, externally summarized, in the version of the Government's proposal. I am looking for a positive sign for those ladies and gentlemen who agree to do so. – This is accepted by a majority. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of Appendix I, which have not yet been voted on, including general overviews (Annexes Ia to Ic) and Appendix II, establishment plan, in 39 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 70 of the Supplements. I ask those Members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the text of the Federal Financial Act 2007 in 39 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 70 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is accepted by a majority. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2007 and investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. This adopted the 2007 budget. As announced, we now proceed to a series of votes on the resolutions submitted to the Federal Finance Act in 2007. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the creation of a uniform legal form for the Federal Service. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote will now be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Aspöck on increased legal protection by means of a structural reform, the administrative first instance and the administrative court as a review court with a comprehensive rejection competence. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aspöck on procedural acceleration by a Constitutional Court, which is a permanent session, and on the new planning points to be set up. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is the minority and rejected. The vote will now be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the submission of declarations of completeness by the Federal Minister for Finance, the Federal Minister for the Interior and the Federal Minister for Justice concerning the submission of files to the Parliamentary Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, colleagues, on the submission of an opinion on the possibility of exit from the Eurofighter Treaty by Professor Dr. Koziol on behalf of the Federal Minister for Defence. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. – This is the minority and rejected. A motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the safeguarding of paragliding training. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for Defence in accordance with Article 74(l) of the Treaty. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to do so. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Fichtenbauer, colleagues, on the submission of a comprehensive social plan for the staff affected by the German army reform. I'm looking for an appropriate sign on consent. – This is the minority and rejected. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aspock, Mr Aspock, Mr Aspock, on budgetary improvement of victims' aid in the event of probationary aid experiments. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Jarolim, Mr Fekter, Mr Rosary and Mr Mag. Darmann concerning professional ban on sexual criminals. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have given their approval here to give a sign on this point. - That's the majority. This request is therefore accepted. (E 19.) I shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schalle, fellow Members, on ensuring that Marchfeldschlösser's revitalisation of the country of Lower Austria is financed. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on the issue of ensuring that: Austrian banking customers are not discriminated against due to their ethnic origin, as well as review of any infringements of the law of the BAWAG. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. This request is rejected. Now we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, ladies and gentlemen, on the discharge of drivers. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Dolinschek, fellow Members, on the termination of the anti-terrorist regime by Vignettes. I'm looking for a sign for those members who give him the consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues on financial security for the Villach railway node and the Carinthian Central Region. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Now we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. klement, ladies and gentlemen, on the creation of the possibility of co-operation in school buses for non-school students. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Schalle, colleagues, on the subject of mandatory increase in expenditure on research and development to 3% of gross domestic product by 2010. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who give him the consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I now come to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues with regard to strengthening families through tax deductibility of child care costs, the introduction of a care check and the abolition of the amount of child care allowance for the vote. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zwerschitz, colleagues, on the review of the eligibility of the RFJ under the Federal Youth Promotion Act. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here for this. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues, on the comprehensive guarantee of financial security for minors. Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Bösch, colleagues and colleagues on the outcome of an immediate termination of negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Turkey to the European Union. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The Scheibner, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled a motion for a resolution on the increase in the budget for development cooperation. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Kurzmann, colleagues and colleagues on the impact of a more intensive promotion of German minorities in the successor states of the Austrian-Hungarian monarchy. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on support for country initiatives to establish a common school in model regions. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of a national education plan for the last kindergarten year with a focus on language promotion. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall now vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleagues on free professional ageing (Teacher with Matura). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, colleagues on the promotion and preservation of the German language in its role as a central cultural element. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, colleagues on the promotion and preservation of popular culture in its role as a central cultural element. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, Members of Parliament, concerning €5 million a year as an emergency measure to ensure the existence of non-confessional schools in the free movement of persons. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mr Niederwieser, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Neugebauer, on the development of strategies and models for the entire school organisation. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who speak for it. - That's the majority. The application is therefore accepted. (E 20.) I would also like to put to the vote the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues on the voluntary social service year. I am looking for a sign for those Members who are here. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen, on the non-refundable retirement at 55 and 60 years under the long-term insurance scheme - 'Hackler'. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dolinschek, colleagues on independence for the Consumer Information Association. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues on the Austrian rural development programme from 2007 to 2013. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. The vote will be taken on the motion for a resolution by Mrs Schalle, colleagues, on the priority use of funds for housing and rehabilitation for thermal-energy building renovations. If you're right, I'm looking for a sign of that kind. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the failure of confidence towards the Federal Minister for the Interior in accordance with Rule 74. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act. In view of the fact that such a decision is taken by the National Council in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this paragraph. I expressly note the presence of half of the Members of Parliament in the terms of the Constitution quoted above. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a reluctance to accept it. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen on legalisation in full integrated, long-term, unspoiled foreigners living in Austria while maintaining strict asylum and xenophobia rights. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the prevention of further explosion of costs in the field of asylum by presenting a draft amendment to the Asylum Act. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the increase in the budget lines for the executive. Here again, I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthal, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the rapid and clear reduction of asylum procedures. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Lutz Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, on a new invitation to tender for State control. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Johann Maier, Dkfm. Dr. Stumbling, Mag. Rossmann, Weinzinger, Bucher, colleagues on SWIFT and flight passenger data – support for the Data Protection Council and the European Parliament by the Austrian Federal Government. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This request was adopted unanimously. (E 21.) The draft Federal Financial Act for 2008 and the Annexes in 40 of the Supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 71 of the Supplements are now before the vote. As regards Appendix I, Members of Parliament have given an opinion on the proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional amendment or amendment. Mr Scheibner has also asked for a separate vote on Chapter 20, which is a point of order. Finally, Mr Brosz has made a request for a separate vote on chapters 01 to 06 and on the proposal for a resolution 1/06, sports matters. First of all, I will have to vote on the supplementary or amendment proposals referred to above and the parts of the proposal, affected by the request for a separate vote, then on the remaining parts of the proposal, which have not yet been voted on; then on Appendix II, and finally on the text of the Federal Finance Act. Thus, we come to a separate vote on Chapter 01, Presidency Office, 02, Federal Law with the exception of the proposal approach 1/02403 and on Chapter 03, Constitutional Court, 04, Administrative Court, 05, People's Procuratorate, and 06, Accounting Court, in the version of the Government Template. I am looking for a sign for those members of the House who stand up for these parts of the bill. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the amendment tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the proposal for a resolution 1/10434. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. That's the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. In addition, the Members of Parliament have spoken in favour of this report. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to the proposal 1/10434. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are for this to be a sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on the current proposal as amended by the Government's proposal. Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. A amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, refers to the estimate approach 1/1506. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. I shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Mr Graf, fellow Members, have tabled an additional proposal to introduce a new approach to the promotion of sales in Chapter 10. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We now proceed to the separate vote on the proposal 1/06, sports matters, in 40 of the supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 71 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on the estimates in Chapter 20, externally summarized, in the version of the Government's proposal. I would also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. I shall now vote on the remaining parts of Appendix I to the Federal Estimate 2008 which have not yet been voted on, including overall summaries (Annexes Ia to Ic) and Appendix II, establishment plan, in 40 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendments made to the Committee's report in 71 of the Supplements. I call on those Members of the House who give their approval to do so to give a sign on this point. – This is accepted by a majority. We are now voting on the text of the 2008 Federal Financial Act in 40 of the supplements as amended by the Committee's report in 71 of the Supplements. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent. – This is the majority and accepted. This concludes the second reading on the Federal Finance Act 2008 together with investments. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This also adopted the 2008 budget. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on more police officers in increasing crime. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. The agenda is therefore exhausted. [[Unrest in the hall.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to draw attention to this: There will be two more meetings.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-04-25-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00021_d8e65959	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 193/A to 225/A have been tabled at this meeting. Questions 702/J to 757/J and 768/J to 809/J were also received. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 18.43 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
