ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e2887	The 17th. The meeting of the National Council is open. I am delighted to welcome Mr President-in-Office Dr Heinz Fischerin to our centre. [[General condolences.]] I also warmly welcome Mr Alt-Bundes President Dr Kurt Waldheim. [[General condolences.]] I also warmly welcome my predecessor Dr. Andreas Khol at the visitor gallery. [[General condolences.]] ==References====External links== Meeting of 22. On March 20, 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Mulder, Mag. Gaßner, Haberzettl, Prehauser and Mandak. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e2951	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: The Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger will be represented by the Federal Minister for Justice Dr. Maria Berger from 10.30 a.m. [[09:07:04]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e2987	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[09:07:16]] Request for a brief debate on the response 223/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3244	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply 223/AB to Question 217/J by Dr Moser, colleagues on the anniversary brochure of the Vice-President by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology. This brief debate takes place in accordance with § 57a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure after completion of the agenda, but not later than 15 a.m. [[09:07:48]] Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3269	Before entering the agenda, I would also like to say that Mr Bucher has requested that the Financial Committee report on the request 34/A by Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner and Mr Colleagues be sent up to 30. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This brief debate will take place following the debate on the reply to the question. Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform Mr Ing. Westenthaler has requested to report to the Family Committee on the request 33/A of Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues, a deadline until 30. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3316	It is my request according to § 69 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure to take the government documents relating to the Federal Financial Laws for 2007 and 2008 together with Appendices (39 and 40 of the Supplements) at first reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this request to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3343	The debate on points 2 to 5, 6 to 8, 10 and 11 and 15 and 16 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3368	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, a day-blocking period of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been envisaged, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 116 minutes, green as well as FPÖ 92 minutes and BZÖ 64 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also inform you that the entire budget speech will be transmitted by the ORF. [[09:10:10]] 1. Point Declaration by the Federal Minister for Finance on the Government’s templates concerning the Federal Financial Laws for the years 2007 and 2008 together with investments
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3411	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. I give the floor to the Federal Minister for Finance to give the statement. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e3435	Greetings to God, ladies and gentlemen! Mr President of the Federal Republic of Germany! Mr Alt-Bundes President! Madam President. Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear High House! – Mr Westenthaler, “Dear High House”, that is what I mean! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's very nice!]] The responsibility of a Minister of Finance and thus also my responsibility is to deal with the ‘tax euro’ of citizens with care and responsibility. That is what I promise on behalf of this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is therefore in the interest of all taxpayers and all taxpayers, ladies and gentlemen, that we should no longer spend more than we take. It is important that we use disciplined and wise budgets and hard-working tax money properly. And it is important to invest money that we invest this money properly and in the future. These are the principles of a responsible budgetary policy, a budgetary policy that is characterised by house understanding and understanding of the future. This is in the interest of the Austrians. As Vice-President and Minister of Finance, it is a special honour to be able to present to you today the first budget for which I bear responsibility. I have designed this double budget – a budget for at least half of this legislative period – together with my colleagues in the Federal Government. I would like to be here with all the colleagues of the Federal Government, in particular with my State Secretary, Christoph Matznetter, and – I say that at this point too! – with the employees of the Federal Ministry of Finance – all highly qualified and professional! – thank you very, very much. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We have drawn up a budget based on clear and reliable principles: If we are economical where there is a need for economy, we invest where investment is important; and above all: Let us be fair and sustainable when it comes to the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If, therefore, I present to you today figures, facts and facts, then we must always bear in mind one thing: These figures represent the future and the chances of the Austrians. It is about the framework in which people shape their lives. It is about the framework in which workers, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs work. It's about education, it's about the career opportunities of young people. It's about the freedom we give people to shape their lives. And it's about the families where the future of our country lies. Speaking of the future: This is my main concern in policy and therefore also in my budgetary policy. It is about the future prospects of young people in this country. And we must not adjust the prospects for the future of young people in this country by means of debt, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It's the people we're making politics for – we're responsible for them! This budget is therefore the basis for the concrete policy of this Federal Government. This budget is future-looking, and I am pleased to inform you today that the budget base is better than we expected. In this double budget, revenue in 2007 was estimated at €65.7 billion and expenditure of €69.6 billion. This corresponds to an administrative deficit of around €3.9 billion and, taking into account the local authorities, the countries and municipalities, and the social security funds, a general government Maastricht deficit of 0.91 percent, ladies and gentlemen. This is less than 1 percent deficit and much less than what we have done in the government negotiations as a path – that is, 1.12 percent. We set ourselves an ambitious goal at the time, ladies and gentlemen, and we can be proud that we exceeded this target with this budget. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is a really crucial step. It is a crucial step that we also achieve our ambitious and ambitious goal of having a balanced budget in 2010 and of promising citizens not only tax relief to entrepreneurs in 2010 but also to implement it. For 2008, we are looking for revenues of €66.9 billion and expenditure of €69.9 billion. This results in an administrative deficit of €3 billion – i.e. €1 billion less than in 2007 – and a general government deficit of 0.73 percent, taking into account the Maastricht logic already addressed. Ladies and gentlemen! With this, we are also better in 2008 – and clearly better! – when we did this in the government negotiations. This is an important success, an important prerequisite for future security! It is also a success of hard work, and we can do it today – we can be proud of it! – build on the comprehensive reforms of recent years: pension reform, tax reform, innovation in research and infrastructure, labour market reforms, offensives for small and medium-sized enterprises, export offensives. These initiatives, these reforms have been criticized there or there – I know! But today we can say that it is a fertile seed that was sown at the time. Today we are responsible for dealing responsibly with this fertile seed. The fruits of this seed are for the Austrians. This is a well-invested future in the interests of Austria. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But let me also expressly hold on to this point: In every euro – which is ultimately a “tax euro” – which is contained in this budget, is the personal performance of the Austrians. Only this personal achievement makes it possible for our country, our Republic of Austria, to be the leader in social security. Therefore, today and here on behalf of the Federal Government, I would like to thank all those who provide these services to the general public, whether they are the workers in that country, the entrepreneurs, but also many thousands of people who volunteer to provide their services to the Republic: Thank you! This commitment strengthens Austria, retains Austria's performance and also ensures solidarity, social and social cohesion in our country. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In addition to reducing the deficit – I have already addressed the two positive developments in 2007 and 2008 – I am particularly concerned that the development of the sovereign debt ratio is an essential measure of the future capacity of this federal government and of this country. This development in both budgets shows: We're going in the right direction. While the debt ratio in 1999 was still 66.5 percent of the gross domestic product, it fell to 62.2 percent by 2006. But, ladies and gentlemen, with this double budget, we are taking a historic step – and those who know me know that I am doing very carefully with such words: The development of this double budget assures us that, with the debt ratio in 2008, we will be below the magic debt limit of 60 percent for the first time since 1993. This is the first time we have achieved this European objective. We can be proud of this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is not just the expression of our European responsibility. - No! This is rather the expression of our understanding of responsibility for the future. These budgets, ladies and gentlemen, are therefore generations-fit, future-fit and, of course, in all respects, Europe-fit. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: stress-fit!]] We know as you do, ladies and gentlemen, that the top priority of policy is to create and secure employment for Austrians. We have therefore also committed ourselves with these budgets to the ambitious goal of full employment by 2010 – demanding, but feasible. People have a right to do so, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, each of these budget positions, each budget item – if you want to – must also have this test, this test must be maintained: Are these budget positions actually positive for growth and employment? If you want to, you must have a growth TÜV. This budget is the guarantee that this growth TÜV will actually be respected. With this budget, we will raise the additional growth potential that exists in Austria and thus ensure that the economic developments of 2007 and 2008 are not just one-time outliers and peaks of the economy, but what we want to achieve: sustainable, sustainable growth at a high level, ladies and gentlemen! That is why we in this government are also pursuing a very clear, offensive growth strategy with this budget, by accelerating the economic momentum through future investment and by confronting entrepreneurs with a modern, efficient and economical state a potential growth partner. The state must not be a growth brake, but must be a growth partner. That's my vision, ladies and gentlemen, because we're just doing it – and that's important! – can also guarantee social security and social security for our citizens. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] However, these necessary investments in the future, ladies and gentlemen, we must – and this is clear – work through savings, for example through state and administrative reform, through cuts in expenditure where this is possible, and through redeployment. I am convinced that we will achieve these objectives in cooperation between the federal, state and local authorities, but above all in cooperation with the social partners. This common goal unites us, ladies and gentlemen. But I am also clear from this point of view that we have not only a common objective for the general government deficit, but also a common responsibility of the federal, state and local authorities. The future orientation of these two budgets, ladies and gentlemen, is also seen as an offensive development of the share of future-related measures. It rises from 23.6 percent in 2006 to 25.4 percent in 2008. In the same period, the “former expenditure” in the budgets is falling from 26.9 to 25 percent. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that in 2008, half of the additional expenditure in the budget is spent on future expenditure such as research and education. And you can also see this development: With these budgets, we are clearly on the way to the future! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Where and how do we want to speed up this future investment? – First of all: We must now invest in the innovative power of tomorrow, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, our future innovation strategy is massively marked by a further increase in expenditure on research and development. After all, from 2006 to 2007, expenditure on research and development rose by a total of 10 percent – a right, a positive development. And with that, the foundation stone is laid, my Ladies and gentlemen, in this legislative period – that is to say, by the year 2010 – we also achieve the 3-percent target. We will achieve this objective when we create and deal with the economy, especially with small and medium-sized enterprises. Here we have something to do. It is not enough for industry to be involved in these projects, we need the width of the middle class – also in research and development policy – as well as the universities. It is our aim, therefore, to create up to 1,000 new jobs for young researchers in this legislative period, so that we can also support these impulses accordingly from this side. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have said that innovation power is the best future insurance a country can ever have. And one of the key examples of this will be our response to the challenge of climate and energy policy. Energy and environmental technology offensive, ladies and gentlemen, is one of these answers. Here we are good in Austria. Here we have a real pioneering role, even in the markets an above-average presence and above all above-average growth. And we want to support this dynamic in the interests of the environment and the economy with the creation of a climate and energy fund – at least €500 million in this legislative period, ladies and gentlemen! We also have a chance to benefit from this and we need to create a strong, new export cluster with environmental and technology in an export offensive that we will continue in this legislative period. This is an opportunity for the environment and the economy, ladies and gentlemen, and it shows that we are competitive. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We do not need to fear, we are innovative and thus successful! From: These examples show, ladies and gentlemen, that an international economy, an opening up of our markets to our country, for workers in the country and for entrepreneurs in that country, is an opportunity and not a threat! With this internationalisation offensive, with this budget, we also show that we want to continue to encourage this path, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A second important way to promote and develop this innovative strength in Austria is to invest in the smart minds and in the skills of our children and our young people. Education and thus education policy is part of a successful policy for the country, including a successful location policy. Well-trained people in this country are the most important things we have to offer. I use the word “red material” under quotation marks – although it is in the original version of my budget speech in this context without quotation marks – because it is much more valuable, that is, the most valuable thing we have: the qualifications of our young people, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We are therefore investing €195 million in an educational campaign in these two years, which increases the quality of our training, which enables training in smaller classes. Thus, the reduction of the maximum number of students from autumn of this year is a reality, which gives us the opportunity to give more attention to the individual child. This is necessary to raise the creative potential of children. With this double budget, ladies and gentlemen, universities also receive €172 million in 2007 than in 2006. This amount will be increased by €25 million in 2008. We can therefore make a total of €500 million available to universities in the years to 2009. There is a further €500 million for the necessary investment in structural measures. That means: € 1 billion more for universities, ladies and gentlemen – a real and important step! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] But at the same time we succeed in investing not only in the universities, but also in increasing the scholarships for the students on average by 12 percent. The highest scholarship is increased from €606 to €679, the average scholarship from €275 to €308 a month – an important step also for the social security of our students, ladies and gentlemen! We also continue the technical education offensive. Together with investments in education, university, technical college and scholarships, the share of expenditure on education, education, research and science increases from 14.2 percent in 2006 to 15.2 percent in 2008 – a clear signal of how important these investments are to us! After all, it is € 6.5 billion in 2007 and € 6.6 billion in 2008 for teaching and € 3.96 billion for research and science in 2007 and € 4.04 billion for research and science in 2008. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is also clear that the question of the quality of a location is not measured alone by how many graduates of universities we have, but it is equally important to me and to us that we pay great attention to the training of skilled workers. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] After all, we can say today that the overall measures lead to this – especially economic growth! – that unemployment is falling significantly – a real success, ladies and gentlemen! Economic researchers predict unemployment for these two years of 4.3 per cent and 4.1 per cent respectively. I believe that other regions in Europe would already be talking about full employment in this context, and I say this very honestly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But so that we can continue at this level, ladies and gentlemen, it needs the massive offensive for qualification and further training. We are therefore happy to invest the additional €200 million in the labour market and have to spend it on skills, especially in the specialist sector, so that we can also provide the economy with the workforce it needs, in view of the positive growth trend. Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue of quality of life in a country and the quality of life, not only does education, training and research belong to culture, of course. A country like Austria has a high responsibility for the future of art and culture. We will therefore also, of course, help in this legislative period of the European Initiative “European Capital of Culture Linz”, just as we will of course also express our appreciation of art and culture with the increase for the Bundestheater by €5 million next year and with the increase for the Federal Museums by €6 million next year. – Ladies and gentlemen, this is important to us, that is a concern for us! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] A third important initiative is investment in infrastructure, road and rail. I say very openly to you that, with the €11 billion we make available in this legislative period, we have the largest infrastructure investment programme that has existed in a legislative period – with the clear focus on rail. 6,4 billion € for rail and 4,6 billion € for road, that's right and good, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is not only important, however, if the investment behind it, the workers behind it, no, it is particularly important to ensure that we can actually benefit from the opportunity for an offensive economy and a more mobile society in Europe. And the broad approval of this package from all the federal states, ladies and gentlemen, shows us: We're right about that! At the heart of Europe, we must also benefit from the opportunity that lies in Europe through infrastructure, innovation and investment, but at the same time be aware of the problems associated with it. They all know the figures associated with the rise in transit traffic. Yes, this is an issue, and therefore the question of a decision-making and own funding for the Brenner base tunnel is an important perspective so that we can also give the answer to the concerns of the people who have actually been given in connection with increasing traffic. [[Congratulations on MEPs from ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Not only the Tyroleans can clap at the Brenner Base Tunnel, that helps everyone, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] One element is also important to us, ladies and gentlemen: However, this strategy in the transport sector includes, of course, public passenger transport. Therefore, we expect the countries to use the share they derive from the rise in mineral oil tax, of course for public passenger transport. This is also the right answer in the context of the challenge of climate protection. After all, we invest € 14 million in 2007 and € 19 million in 2008 in public passenger transport. Infrastructure, mine Ladies and gentlemen, however, it is far from to be financed by public investment alone. We therefore also invite the economy, through PPP models, private-public partnership models, to contribute to more open, faster and more efficient infrastructure investments, in the interest of this partnership “Economic – State”. Infrastructure is not only road, but also the Danube is a highly interesting project for all of us – the first time in history that the Danube flows from its origin to its mouth into the Black Sea exclusively through the Member States of the European Union. A ur European river, embedded in the European Union, is also to be used as an infrastructure project. The closure of power supply gaps, the supply of rural infrastructure, keyword: We are particularly concerned about broadband, ladies and gentlemen. Because these infrastructure investments are important, they also increase to around 23.6 percent of total expenditure. This is an increase of 25.5 percent in 2008, ladies and gentlemen. For everyone and everyone who reads in detail in the original version of the budget speech: It is not an increase by 25 percent – that would be nice – but to 25.5 percent! I'm correcting: It must be called: 25.5 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, for the future, the question of rural areas, the question of agriculture, the question of the environment is a very crucial perspective. We are therefore committed to the implementation of the Green Pact for rural areas and for farmers. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We do this by calling on the European Union to provide € 565 million and additional € 340 million in federal funds. Of course, countries too will play their part in this. Our principle is: We will pick up every funding euro available in Brussels for rural areas and for farmers by ensuring the national co-financing of federal governments and countries, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Assuming security: We invest in flood protection additional € 37 million, and we invest offensively also in climate protection. The commitment framework for environmental promotion will be increased by €10 million from €80 million to €90 million. The JI/CDM programme will be increased by €10 million in 2007 and €20 million in 2008. A total of €2.8 billion is available to the Ministry of Life this year and €2.9 billion next year – properly invested money, not only for the people who live there, but above all for the guests who want to enjoy the beauty of the landscape in the future! Ladies and gentlemen, we confess to a strong state where he makes sense. This means, however, that we must be efficient, efficient and cost-conscious. Therefore, a fourth perspective for this strong state, ladies and gentlemen, is security. Austria is one of the safest countries, and from this point of view I would like to thank all the executive staff members who guarantee security in our country every day. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] It is also important that we convey this sense of security to people in Austria and secure it in the future – especially at a time when violence is increasing and where organised crime is unfortunately on the agenda. Therefore, we have ensured that today 26 884 executive officials work for our security, which is more than 200 people than last year. [[Abg. Street: 3 000 less than 1999!]] This year and next, important and difficult demands come to mind, for example: How can we ensure a secure football European Championship? I would like to see the happy and secure European Championships, which are very important. Therefore, the budget is also provided, with €2.15 billion in 2007 and € 2.14 billion in 2008. Security, ladies and gentlemen, is not only internal, but, of course, external security. Our federal army has proved successful in the use of disasters, in international operations based on UN and EU mandates. And this security, ladies and gentlemen – that is why I say quite clearly: this is an important claim! –, doesn't end a meter above the ground. That is why the government in the work programme we have carried out and in this double budget has confirmed the commitment to a comprehensive security policy and thus also to airspace monitoring. Therefore, for the year 2007, €2.2 billion is available for the Austrian federal army and € 2 billion for 2008. This strategy, ladies and gentlemen, is also part of our international commitments in the field of security. We must also confirm, through our policy, that we are right to apply for the United Nations Security Council, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] That is why, of course, the comprehensive security concept and the active participation of the European Union remains our core task of foreign policy. European integration process, further development of the European Union, including enlargement of the European Union, are important concerns – this is more than a natural commitment to us, we see it as a task that we will be happy to fulfil! [[Abg. Strache: Who gave the order? Who is the Commissioner for Enlargement, Mr. Finanzminister?]] However, in foreign policy we also have a very demanding path ahead of us, namely how we can ensure the objective of Austria for the co-financing of development cooperation. They know our objective: to achieve 0.51 percent of GDP. This is our common commitment, to which we stand, and so is the budgeting of the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs for 2007 and 2008 with €388 million respectively. But this also needs a clear perspective in the next two years so that we can fulfil our development cooperation commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the area of judicial administration, ladies and gentlemen, new rules of play are coming into force, such as the state regulation which the House has decided. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Punishment order!]] Sorry! Criminal order! You're flawless, I'm not! – The rules of criminal proceedings are to enter into force in 2008. This requires additional measures, such as for victims' assistance. Therefore, there is €42 million more in 2007 and €54 million more in 2008 for this important area. That means: More than € 1 billion for the judicial administration in 2007 and 2008! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, such as innovation, infrastructure or security, the social network, social cohesion and social cohesion are of particular importance to us. These two budgets confirm, on the one hand, that we have an excellent social network in Austria, which we can be proud of, ladies and gentlemen. However, these budgets also prove that we understand this as a very central task of policy in the future as well as in the past. This, of course, concerns the health system. Yes, we demand from the social partners efficiency improvements in the health system, but are willing to assume political responsibility for increasing health insurance contributions at the same time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But “the joy” of all!]] Honestly, ladies and gentlemen, these are – so that we also know what dimension we are talking about – 2 € per month. And I think that 2 € a month is money we like to take care of for a good health care. That must simply be worth our health, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In the health sector, total – including prevention, health care – € 665 million are available for 2007 and € 679 million for 2008. Part of this prevention and prevention, ladies and gentlemen, also part of a modern society, is sport, from broadband to school sports to top sports. And it is therefore a natural duty to ensure that these two budgets do so. However, we will also ensure that we have a successful European football championship and that we support Salzburg's Olympic application by means of federal funds in 2014, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We stand for this social network, ladies and gentlemen. This needs to be tied up more closely where it must be tighter so that disadvantages or ills can be eliminated. This is a humanitarian obligation, and this is also living social solidarity, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But I also say: My understanding of social security is that this is not only a right, but that it also demands a commitment from each individual, namely the commitment to exert himself quickly to stand back on his own feet. And the minimum security provided by us, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely in line with this objective: Help where help is needed, but at the same time motivation to actually return to work, ladies and gentlemen! This is the social network, as I understand it, which does not lead to a lack of time, but enables and secures change – for example, where change takes place in working life, in times of child rearing, in times where jobs are changed, or in training. – In any case, the State’s help for self-help is necessary there! In the next two years, there will be €445 million of additional money for social security in this Federal Government. This makes it possible for us, in particular, to help pensioners, the beneficiaries of the smallest pensions, to increase the compensation allowance. These are € 118 million in the next year and € 118 million in the next year. – This is well-invested, above all properly invested money in the social security of people in our country, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] After all, it is €23.5 billion in 2007 and €23.6 billion in 2008, which we invest in the social location of Austria. – This is more than 30 percent of the total expenditure of the State invested in social security! Family, ladies and gentlemen, is a value that for us, which is not for me to deposition – there you are born, there you grow up, that is home; it is the smallest unit in the state. Of course, it also works without a marriage permit, but we have to support families in particular where they do not work. This means giving answers, in particular, to developments in the modern working world, where support is needed. Such is the flexibility of the child care allowance, which ensures freedom of choice. ==References== January 2008 – and you know that: two models are offered so that the better option can be selected from the personal and individual point of view in the sense of freedom of choice – at least € 60 million more are available for this. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This compatibility of work and family is also a step towards keeping us on the right track towards women's employment rate. And increasing family support for multi-child families and especially for low-income families ensures that we remain at the forefront of families and youth with around €6 billion each in Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I have said that one of the prospects is – and this is important to me – that we want the state not as a growth brake, but as a partner for growth and prosperity. We therefore invest, as has already been said, in the labour market and in employment. But we also need to make the state fit where this is necessary. Wherever it is possible, it must be saved. This applies to the administration so that citizens' proximity and service orientation are guaranteed. Shorter procedures and shorter ways of reducing administrative costs: This benefits people in this country. We therefore do not want an expensive state, but a strong state where this is necessary where it is needed. At the same time, however, I also say to you: We need freedom from the state where we can transfer personal responsibility to citizens, to people. We trust the citizens, we trust them. Therefore, this balance of responsibility is to be defined correctly: Responsibility of the state and responsibility of the citizen! We're putting the savings pen on the right side of the state, ladies and gentlemen. You see, for example, that the expenditure on the administration of the High Authority is going back – that's right! For example, in order to set the right signals, we are reorganising a national “work market service” – under quotation marks – for the public service so that we can respond more flexiblely to the needs of the public service. And we have done something in this Federal Government: Before we invent new things, we will once review the existing structures, ladies and gentlemen. I think the administration is doing quite well! We have agreed that we will present improvement concepts in each department before new ones come into existence. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] A major task is ahead of us: this is the state and administrative reform. This will be something that is particularly important in this Federal Government and for this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen - important because, in this new division of tasks between the federal government, the states and the municipalities, there is also a great opportunity to deal with the tax euro more efficiently, closer to citizens and, above all, more economically! [[Abg. Strache: There's a lot of potential!]] We have a two-thirds majority in this House, and that makes this reform possible. I say quite frankly to you: This also does not allow us any more excuses – we have the two-thirds majority, and therefore we must also use them specifically for this state and administrative reform! I therefore appeal to everyone, ladies and gentlemen – to us, to the countries and to the communities – at this point: It makes no sense for everyone to insist on their acquis, if we are going to do this new, great project, but we must also implement the challenges ahead of us in the future through this offensive of state and administrative reform! Ladies and gentlemen! Careful budgets, investment in the future of Austria, growth and employment: That's our strategy with this double budget! We benefit from the scope offered by a booming economy. Yeah, I already said, We benefit from the fruits of the reform of recent years! But we must continue to work consistently, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can get to the top where we are not yet, and stay at the top where we are already at the top, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I would like to present to you in three visions. Ladies and gentlemen, the following, so you know how you are with us, how you are with me: First: I would like to make Austria the number one country in the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] We trust this! We have an excellent base! Secondly, I want us to create a generation-friendly budgetary and financial policy – a financial and budgetary policy that will have more to do with young people in the future than the debt levels in the past, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, I want us to further develop an economic and life site in Austria, where people feel comfortable where people can live well! I said the starting point is excellent: The world economy is developing happily, the economic engine in the European Union is booming, and the economic researchers have also given us a good witness for Austria a few days ago. Economic growth will increase by 3 percent in real terms this year. This is a massive continuation of the 2006 strong growth rate. And even for 2008, optimism is absolutely justified. And interesting: This is also induced by domestic consumption demand, not only by export success. Ladies and gentlemen, this shows that tax relief is working properly and that we also feel the effects of very positive labour market development. I have already said how the forecast figures of the labour market are. This, of course, affects purchasing power and economic growth – this list would continue now – but that is a good basis, but only half the way, ladies and gentlemen! The important path is ahead of us: the development of the health system, research, development, labour market, safety, social systems. – I am convinced that if we work together in this country, we can achieve this goal of becoming point 1 in the European Union. As I said, we trust this – certainly knowing that Austria is not the sometimes conjured “island of the Blessed”, ladies and gentlemen, no. But what Austria can be: a safe port – a port from which we write international success stories, but also a port in which we find safety in stormy times, a port that gives protection, so that we can also benefit from this secure position the opportunity of globalisation, but also know where the risks lie, and provide for hardships, ladies and gentlemen. And I say this to all the critics of globalisation, including the European Union and the European idea: It is precisely the European Union's co-existence, precisely this objective of the common Europe, ladies and gentlemen, that gives us the basis that, as a small country, as an open economy in Austria and for the Austrians, we are among the winners of globalisation, among the winners of the opening up, among the winners of internationalization, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This Europe is actually what protects us and what benefits us: a shield. It is the platform that helps us to stand in international competition, successfully, as we prove it daily through our entrepreneurs. My second vision, my Ladies and gentlemen, I said a generation-friendly budget and a generation-oriented financial policy. There is also a new, modern understanding of justice, that we not only exercise justice between those who are here, but above all to those who come after us, to our children and to our children, ladies and gentlemen. It was therefore necessary in the past to reduce debt and reduce tax burdens in order to make future investment possible. It was also necessary to take important reform steps in the interests of young people, such as pension reform. – We can build on these successes, and we are putting up a new chapter in this history of Austrian budget and financial policy. We do not need to focus on renovation now, but we can focus on future investment, because the right measures have been put in place. Therefore, these budgets, like hardly any other budgets before, are in line with the requirement of generation-righteousness. But I also say quite openly to you that we have a lot of way ahead of us here, you know this: The debt backpack of the past decades is still hard on our shoulders. After all, it is over €3 000, ladies and gentlemen, that every Austrian, each Austrian, has to contribute to debt eradication per year. Imagine what else you could do with this money! – This is actually unreasonable, and with me should and will not be such a mortgage for the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: How much has been destroyed in recent years? The banishment is not in sight!]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Two decades!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Deficiencies and debt are the biggest enemy to growth, employment and prosperity. Deficiencies and debt narrow our scope for action and prevent the necessary investments in the future. – We want to strip these chains off, we want to free ourselves from them so that we can really invest in the future! This also shows how seriously we take responsibility towards citizens by the fact that these budgets continue to reduce the tax rate: We will be at a tax rate of 41.6 percent in 2008 – at least at the beginning of this decade, it was still more than 44 percent. And what is particularly important – and we are proud of it, ladies and gentlemen! –: We have managed in these two budgets that Austria, as I have already said, is actually below 60% debt in 2008. – Relieving the country, burdening the population and investing in the future – this is future-friendly and generation-friendly, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And a third goal next to the question of future justice, ladies and gentlemen, is the attractiveness of the life and economic location of Austria. We have our economic and social model – we do not have to invent it. The eco-social market economy, ladies and gentlemen, which means freedom and performance are prerequisites for social security and sustainable development. This is our guide for the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This ensures growth and employment and also improves the environment for the economy so that we achieve full employment. There are really counterproductive discussions in the area. I want Austria to remain attractive to investors as a country, because only in a strong country, into an economically successful country, people who want to invest as well. This is not about large or small, ladies and gentlemen, no, the small and medium-sized enterprises are just as important as the large flagships. It is not the size of the economy that is decisive, but the economic success. We want to help those who are better, that's our goal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our aim is therefore to support the middle class, the services, the values for which SMEs stand – for responsibility, for diligence, for performance and willingness to use. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, when you go out into the economy – and that makes sure and proud – that these companies write a real success story: Many companies in the meantime are European champions, are world market leaders, are real world innovation champions, ladies and gentlemen, who are often not standing in front of the curtain, but behind the workbench. – We want to promote those that we want to support, for example through this modern, new initiative of the Climate and Energy Fund, which, I am sure, offers an absolutely positive perspective for small and medium-sized enterprises. Ladies and gentlemen! It is crucial – and these budgets contribute – that we keep dynamics and security in the right balance. People need to know: If you want more competition in the profession or – yes, I say it – you have to admit it because it requires the working world, you have to know that there is a safety net in the case of the case, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, this model of flexicurity, the combination of maximum safety at work and greater flexibility at work, ladies and gentlemen. Denmark, the Netherlands show how. We need the social partners in this way. I therefore invite you to support this flexicurity objective. Flexicurity actually means nothing other than to take people’s fear of change. – This is our job, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Are you on the move psychotherapically?]] It will also be important for us to give an answer to the question of justice that I have already referred to. The development – and I am speaking openly here too – of the wage rate and the profit ratio are disparate. In addition to the successful and reasonable wage policy of the social partners, in order to ensure a fair share of workers' participation in economic development, we also need the possibility of employee participation for workers. This is a question of long-term security, the balance between the interests of work and business, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Very right!]] We want Austria to remain an open country in the future, a hospitable country, a country that welcomes its tourists, but also a country that helps where people are in need. We can – and I say that very openly – not be a boundless country of immigration. Integration is necessary, but it must be made equally clear that integration must follow game rules – for example, the knowledge and skill of the German language, but also – and this is important to me – the acceptance of the Austrian value and life model, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And in this sense we have set a common goal, and that means: Integration before immigration! - That's the right answer. But it is important that we are also open to the young people of the second and third generations of immigrants, ladies and gentlemen. We need to integrate them, we want them. They are mostly Austrian citizens. We need them, for example, in the field of skills, such as integration and development in the labour markets. This will be an important task of ours, that we also offer these people a proper perspective. This budgetary policy and these two budgets, which I am presenting to you today, are based on three principles: First of all, a careful handling of taxpayers' money. Again: It is not our money, neither mine nor the government, nor yours, ladies and gentlemen. It is the money of taxpayers. We're responsible for them. Secondly, We must provide for the future. We need to think about young people. We must provide young people with the right perspective, relieve them and not build up new debts that will give young people a look into the future. Thirdly, We can only do that if we accept this responsibility. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, these two budgets are also an expression of the takeover of responsibility in the sense that the old welfare state has brought people in the present very, very much convenience – yes – but often forgot to think of children and children. Therefore, responsibility is to replace the old welfare state with the active welfare state, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can create the best possible future conditions. Today we have to take care of the basis of life of tomorrow. This concerns the climate. This concerns environmental policy. This concerns the provision of old-age pensions. This concerns all social benefits. This concerns education policy, infrastructure policy, innovation policy. This is our mission, and that is our understanding and understanding of political responsibility. We are, of course, also open to ideas, open to suggestions, open to critical discourse in this task, which we as the Federal Government have received from the electorate. But on the ambitious objective of growth and employment, full employment, of course, we hold fast. You now know, ladies and gentlemen, the data and facts of the Austrian budget for this year and for the next year. They also know the starting point that our home country Austria has in economic and social terms. It is a great perspective, every reason for optimism, every reason to enter into the coming years with confidence and with confidence. That's what I'm inviting. I invite you, ladies and gentlemen, not only in the House, but all Austrians that you go this path of optimism and confidence together with us. It is worth it, it is especially worth it for Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4005	I would like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance for his statement. [[10:15:02]] 2. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 37/A by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Product Piracy Act 2004 (i.d.F. BGBl. I No. 56/2004) is amended (53 e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 81/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Josef Bucher, colleagues concerning a Federal Act on Special Accounting Rules for Companies which are bound to separate accounts (Special Accounting Act – SRLG) (54 d.b.) 4. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 82/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Josef Bucher, colleagues on A federal law that amends the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act (55 d.b.) 5. Point Report and request of the Financial Committee on the draft federal law amending the bankruptcy and compensation rules (56 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4083	We now come to points 2 to 5 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Dr. Stummvoll. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4113	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a number of legislative drafts under these agenda items. Two of them are directly linked to the transparency directive of the European Union, namely the Special Accounting Act and the amendment to the Banking and Stock Exchange Act. I am very glad that we had a broad majority here in the Committee on Finance, although there is a point I am going to address where the Green Group unfortunately could not go, but we are going to have informal discussions over the next few months to reach a broad consensus with the Green Group, with Mr Van der Bellen. The following point is raised: The Transparency Directive of the European Union provides for a stock holding of 5 percent or more. Thus, a shareholder or a shareholder group that owns more than 5 percent of a company's shares shall report this to the Stock Exchange and the Financial Market Supervisory Board. It's right, there are some countries that have dropped the border to 3 percent. But we don't know anything about the experience with it. As chairman of the Financial Committee, I have therefore asked not only the takeover commission, Professor Doralt, but also the capital market officer, Richard Schenz, and also the board of directors of the Vienna Stock Exchange. The Capital Market Officer and the Vienna Stock Exchange are to leave the 5 percent. That's what we do this time. Professor Doralt of the committee of takeovers was of the opinion that we should now go down to 3%. We agreed at an informal group leader meeting of the Financial Committee that before the summer we will hold informal talks with both the Takeover Commission and the Vienna Stock Exchange and the Capital Market Officer, where we want to try to evaluate the experience with a lower limit and decide on any changes in the autumn of this year. In this sense, one of the following speakers of the two government parties will also make a motion for a resolution. A completely different subject is the product piracy law. A little more than half a year ago, on the initiative of Mr Maier von der SPÖ, we adopted a resolution unanimously, according to which the Minister for Finance The House should present an annual report on the piracy of products. We decide today that a provision will also be included in the law itself. I am really grateful to Mr Jacky Maier. He was one of the first to point out the incredible brilliance and dynamics of this area. I admit it honestly. I did not know even years ago how explosive this develops, a world-wide booming industry that works underground and where jobs and tax revenue escape us, where in Asia completely new productions have arisen, where product groups of jewelry are affected by watches, textiles, aircraft parts, car parts and also medications. The last point, ladies and gentlemen, shows that for the first time in the field of piracy, not only economic damage in the form of loss of taxation and job losses, but also incredible health risks. There are extreme examples that are also included in the report of the Ministry of Finance, extreme examples of drug counterfeiting. I grab one out where brick dust has been made of cardiovascular substances, which have then been dyed with a yellow color that is otherwise used for soil markings, and thus the whole shines, one has covered this so-called pill with furniture polish. So incredible and hairthrowing! The fun really stops because it's really about health hazards, just as there is in the area of cigarettes and the smoking goods product piracy, where there are pollutants that are not at all imaginable in our cigarettes. That is to say, we have a situation here for the first time where extreme health risks occur, Mr President-in-Office of the ÖVP Erwin Rasinger, you will agree with me. And how explosive this develops is seen in the figures of the last three years: In 2004 our customs authorities did not take up any case of drug piracy. In 2005 it was a case of 55 drug packs, and in the previous year it was already 127 cases with 12,000 drug packs worth about €360 000. Fake, dangerous drugs, ladies and gentlemen! There really is an international need for an agreed approach. We will make our contribution to this, which has already begun with the Austrian Presidency to set up initiatives here. I believe that we need to take action here in a global way – and above all the European Union is called for – in order to stop it, because, once again: Economic policy means job losses, taxes. Health policy means risking the health of our citizens. I am pleased that we have a broad consensus here in the House in this area of product piracy. I would like to thank Jacky Maier once again for his early initiatives.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4172	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4193	Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This product piracy report will be presented annually to Parliament in the future. This report, which we are still discussing in the Financial Committee, has now been presented for the first time. Today we create the legal basis. I am particularly pleased that there is agreement on this issue of piracy between all political groups here in the House and that the brilliance of product piracy is recognized. There are a large number of problems – Mr President, she has already mentioned – such as counterfeiting in the pharmaceutical sector, which has led to major problems in third world countries in particular, and has already led to thousands of deaths. However, we also have problems in Europe, which we should not hide from the fact that the product counterfeiters who used to falsify only high-quality consumer goods are now falsifying everything. Car spare parts, aircraft spare parts are faked, and you can imagine: Brakes sold in large numbers in Germany were falsified and had a life of up to half a year. The risk for businesses, but also for consumers, is not known to many. One goes on a bargain hunt, buys in the internet and believes to be able to buy particularly cheaply. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The European consumer organisations have explicitly warned about this development last year and have warned against making such purchases on the Internet unnecessarily. However, the particular problem – and I do not hide that – lies in the area of food and pharmaceuticals. In the food sector, I think only of food supplements that are falsified and have a doping relevance. We have had a number of cases in recent years, where there was a positive doping result for Austrian athletes. And in the pharmaceutical sector, we are really facing special challenges. That is why we have also agreed together in our Government Convention on Health, sub-chapter consumer health, that illegal distribution channels, in particular as regards counterfeiting of medicinal products, can be fought together during this period. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We, all political groups, also agreed that this request, which is available today for decision-making, should be amended, namely that the Minister of Finance must submit this product piracy report annually. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We also have the debate at European level. I believe that we should also agree that international agreements or regulations at European level, which aggravate the fight against piracy, should primarily relate to commercial infringements, rather than to consumers who buy such products in good faith. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4293	The amendment just tabled is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4318	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! High house! I would like to comment on two of the proposals to be discussed today, namely the Special Accounting Act and the Stock Exchange and Banking Act. We will agree with the vast majority of these requests, in particular the Special Accounting Act, because there is a substantial progress to be made here in implementing the EU Directive towards greater transparency. - On the one hand. On the other hand – and I would like to point out the success of the Greens we have achieved in the Committee – this Special Accounting Act defines for the first time the services of general economic interest in a law. This is a question of preventing prejudicial effects that no one might want in this form. We have therefore succeeded in particular in ensuring that services of general interest, which are not economic activities, are excluded, and in particular it has been made clear that this does not include statutory social security, but that this does not include national education systems. I think this is a clear step, because there is a possible privatisation trend in this area, a bar, a bar, which is always in the room in this context. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second point concerns the Stock Exchange and Banking Act. Again, this is the implementation of an EU directive, which is also late, and the other, the Special Accounting Directive was only implemented when a complaint against Austria was already filed in the room. Here again, it is about improving transparency once again for shareholders, bond holders and bond holders, but also about rules on participation notifications. And these are particularly important and are being recaptured. They are therefore so important because, in recent days, there have been events related to Böhler-Uddeholm and the presumption of insider trade, there should be a reason for us to think more about it. In principle, the effort is being made to increase the transparency of one that is to be welcomed: The more transparency and the more the information is distributed, the more fair and the less the risk of insider trade is. But now the question will be: Why are the Greens still going to vote against this proposal? I will explain this to you. On the one hand, financial market supervision receives a number of additional tasks, but on the other hand it also receives large-scale regulatory empowerments in this context. With regard to the additional task, the question arises whether the financial market supervision is adequately equipped in this respect and whether the staff is adequately qualified, this is technically very demanding content. The second question, however, is a little further, namely: Who should receive regulatory empowerments? Should this be the financial market surveillance authority, or should it not remain with the Federal Ministry of Finance for constitutional reasons? And there were not a few Members in the Committee who, together with me, represented the second line. Why should the regulatory authority not be transferred to financial market supervision? . Well, I am sitting together with other Members of the Banking Investigation Committee, and we have experienced a number of reasons why we are very skeptical about handing over this regulatory authority to the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority before any reform takes place. Although the Federal Minister of Finance has told us, apart from Service Grasser, how great this Financial Markets Authority works, everyone in this committee has now become aware that this is only a skim and nothing more. We have seen that we are dealing with a financial market surveillance authority that can be instrumentalised when an email from Federal Minister Grasser is sent to that authority. We have experienced that targeted queries of large credit evidence are made, without the staff being duly informed of the data protection provisions, in order to harm a party, including SPÖ, in the election campaign. However, we have also seen that, in connection with the securities service provider AMIS, critical reports are ignored that reports relating to transactions of this securities service provider have been ignored by the Financial Markets Supervisory Board from Luxembourg – with the success that this financial service provider has gone into bankruptcy and left behind 16 000 victims, of which 10 000 are from Austria alone. However, we have also seen that this financial market surveillance authority has interface problems in cooperation with the Oesterreichische Nationalbank. This has led to a shift in on-the-spot checks in connection with the BAWAG, that a management discussion has taken place instead, and in particular that documents on critical test reports have simply been ignored and not read by the participants of this management discussion. – The consequences of BAWAG are known to all of us. However, we have also seen that we are dealing with a financial market surveillance authority which, despite its multiple causes, is not worth the effort to provide the investigation committee with the necessary documentation to investigate. Such an authority cannot be conscientiously delegated to a regulatory authority. On the contrary: A reform of this authority has been announced: And we must strive for it. And I think that there is also agreement in the Committee on this matter. A last comment to increase the transparency of participation in connection with the last transactions concerning the acquisition of Böhler-Uddeholm: A reduction in the reporting threshold from 5 per cent to 3 per cent is an hour's bid to improve the transparency of the owner structure of listed companies. The recent events, I would like to stress once again, and the presumption of insider trade has shown this very clearly. By the way: The results of the investigation of the financial market supervision concerning this insider trading or this alleged insider trade have not yet become known. I therefore join those in the committee who have taken action to reduce this threshold from 5 to 3 per cent – we have not been able to enforce – but I also agree with the opinion of the committee on takeover, which called for a threshold of 3 per cent. We would find ourselves with this threshold in association with other benchmark countries in the European Union, which have lower thresholds, such as Great Britain, Germany, Spain 3 percent, also Czech Republic 3 percent; Italy and Portugal even have thresholds of 3 percent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4403	Mr Zanger has now come to speak. Requested time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4424	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Minister! High house! The present draft law on the Special Accounting Act essentially constitutes the implementation in form of an extension of the EU Transparency Directive, in two ways: On the one hand, it ensures the transparency of the financial relationship between State and public undertakings by providing for separate accounts for commercial activities and public services of the undertakings concerned, such as public undertakings or undertakings equipped with special or exclusive rights, on the other hand, Member States are required by this Directive to submit annual reports to the EU. The new directive – ‘new’ is perhaps a somewhat inappropriate concept because the implementation of this Directive should have taken place by the end of July 2001; why it has been so long time is not understandable to me – it also extends the transparency requirements to companies that provide public services and maintain financial compensation for them and, on the other hand, to pursue a parallel industrial activity. It is intended to ensure that public funds are actually used only for services in the public interest and not for anti-competitive cross-subsidisation. We liberals have always stood to the highest possible transparency in the various areas and have always been committed to equal opportunities for companies of the same business areas. In addition, the taxpayer has a fundamental right to know what happens to his money. For this reason, we welcome the introduction of the SRLG, but note that a six-year implementation period is simply incomprehensible to us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Six years!]] The second point is also about transparency: the amendment of the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act. In this context, reporting rules, notification and information requirements should be harmonised. This concerns reporting matters, in particular those listed in other trade or in regulated free movement. There, the currently somewhat less stringent regulations are aligned with those in official trade. While this means increasing the burden on the companies concerned, it is an important step towards investor protection. With regard to the threshold referred to, there is a small example of this: In February of this year, the Scandinavian company SuperOffice acquired updated software at the Austrian company, which is not listed in Austria but in Germany, an 8-percent stake. As this is not mandatory when an Austrian company notes on a foreign exchange and vice versa, this became known only on the basis of a voluntary report. By implementing the country of origin principle, this will prevent this reporting obligation in the future, as it also covers companies which do not have their registered office in the country of origin and vice versa. According to the Product Piracy Act, the worldwide damage resulting from this crime sector is estimated to already account for about 7 percent of world trade – that is to the $600 billion. We could already experience an example of this product piracy here today, because if you look at the budget, it is nothing more than a continuation of the old black and orange budget, so the SPÖ seems to have shown itself a little bit as a product pirate and agreed to the orange contents – unfortunately God. But I want to lose a few words later on. I consider that the report to be decided on today by the Ministry of Finance is essential, and I would like to say here that it is not only because a report is being presented, but it will be to deduce from this report measures that protect the people. And it is essential to launch an information offensive here, because the consumers concerned do not know in part that they buy illegal or illegal things there or things that simply do not correspond to what is available in Austrian trade. There are now less the beaches of the Caribbean or the streets of Hong Kong that advance the product piracy, it has become the world's trading place for fake products. Every citizen who opens his e-mail basket is almost overshadowed with the most tempting offers to the most diverse products. Based on the evaluations of the product piracy report, appropriate and targeted measures will be able to work against this sector of crime. I also think that an information offensive is absolutely necessary personally. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the “Dear House” was able to listen completely to the words of the Minister of Finance. And, with faith, you reminded me a little, Mr. Federal Minister, that the Christian feast will take place next week, and I think Easter hare Molterer has today tried to distribute verbal Easter eggs here in Parliament. However, in view of the many hot air that I could draw from this speech, it is likely that these eggs will be blown out. And as you know, the traditional color of the Easter eggs is red, and they seem to be like the SPÖ When you push a little on the egg, it might break. [[Abg. Heinzl: But you are especially “white” today!]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Are you the Easter hare?]] It should have been the same in the SPÖ's budgetary negotiations, because for the SPÖ this budget represents a budget of broken electoral promises. The budget is a motivator, Mr Vice-Chancellor said, and he is right. He had to put up a lot of courage to tell the House today's budget fairy tale. And he also gave up the courage to ask for this applause himself, given the absence of enthusiastic applause on the socialist side. A few more thoughts: He spoke about this major issue of state reform. He said that the municipalities and countries are also involved. That's where I have to say: Of course, of course. But I myself am a councillor in a small community, and I tell you that the budgets we have available there are already so short that we cannot implement any or hardly future-oriented projects in the individual communities, where the citizen is still a citizen and we are the first contact person, because there is simply no money available. Second point: Economy and state are good partners. The invitation to contribute to the creation of a private partnership is now called “Private Partnership”. – “Private Partnership” – Freunderlwirtschaft has a new name! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Public Private Partnership!]] It is about freedom, he said, the Minister of Finance, to decide the freedom for families to decide what they have achieved. – That’s right, but I ask: What's the family in the bag? Just look at the consumption rate, it hasn't increased for ten years! And when you talk to the people outside, I wonder very well where you think that this freedom should come from or what remains of you. “The innovative power is our best future insurance.” – Ladies and gentlemen from ÖVP: No, the only insurance for the future are our children, our own! And as long as there is no real family relief policy in which young couples no longer have to think about whether they can afford to put children into the world, but on the other hand we are putting € 1 billion in the financing of foreigners' unemployment, I really don't believe in this budget fairy tale!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4534	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4556	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! In the context of these agenda items, we are dealing with a whole series of legislative instruments which have already been adequately dealt with by my previous speakers from their content. I would like to make a few comments, and I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Maier, for his formal "piratery hunt" which he has already carried out in recent years, because he is a very profound expert in product piracy and gives us more and more information about misdevelopments in this area. Therefore, we also acknowledge that you are opening our eyes again and again and pointing out where there are errors that we have to correct. The two transparency directives in the field of special accounting law, stock exchange law and banking law are rightly directives that come from the EU, directives that are comprehensible. And if we hear the criticism that we have been waiting here for a time before we have made a decision in this House, then I am also warning that we are always blinding the things that come from Brussels to simply sluggish through the High House, because it is not always all that comes from Brussels, right and good for the economic and capital market Austria. That is why it is also good and right that we discuss it for a long time and that we are aware of the impact some laws have on Austria. Of course: Transparency directives are important, and we are also committed to them. It is also important in the interests of investors as regards the transparency of securities, that we provide more information here. But it is not right, as my previous speaker from the Freedom Party said, that we had waited far too long, but it is right that we had to wait, because here, too, in our country, developments are under way, which we constantly influence, where we are constantly correcting, because we also have an interest in protecting investors here, and that we have done a lot in the last four years and here every half year a legislative matter in the interests of the capital market Austria has decided. If, as far as the special accounting rules are concerned, there is also a great deal of red tape on individual companies, I would ask you to take this into account, because it is also the European Union that has said that the administrative burden, the administrative burden, must be reduced by 20 percent, so that we as the European Economic Area remain competitive. Therefore, our careful attention will also be drawn to the fact that this special accounting does not result in too much bureaucracy, and I believe that these transitional periods are justified, especially in the banking sector. I would like to express my appreciation of this in all cases, because of the fact that liability is also regarded as a promotion and that the banks also act here as an important partner of the European Union, which also provides for the necessary transparency. In the field of stock exchange law and banking law, we have also experienced in the Banking Investigation Committee that there is a need to correct some of the issues of supervisory activity, especially as regards the multi-stage audit activity in Austria. I am very careful about what the proposal is that we put the FMA under the roof of the central bank, so to speak, because it is not unproblematic when the owners of a large institute examine themselves. In the future, we might have to think of something even more intelligent. Therefore, I have also made the proposal in the Financial Committee to hold a survey to find out where the direction is going in our neighbouring countries, all of which have the same objective in the context of the European Community: that supervision in the field of securities, in the field of stock exchanges, works as best as possible in the area of banks and that there is no abuse here. And of course we also have a need for action at the FMA there and there, and we want to meet that by ensuring a comprehensive reform of banking supervision in the future. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I think that will find the approval of all parties. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4652	Mr Bucher, you have not tabled the proposal as a whole – I must draw your attention to it. If you intend to bring him in, please read him!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4667	Well, I was standing at point ‘(b) institutions,...’ and continue in the second paragraph: "mostly by public authorities. a, other facilities as per lit. b or associations as per lit. (c) be financed or subject to their supervision by them or their administrative, management or supervisory bodies shall consist in a majority of members who have been informed by public authorities. a, other facilities as per lit. b or associations as per lit. (c) have been appointed;’ 3rd. The heading in § 5 reads as follows: ‘Account management’ 4. According to § 5 para. The following paragraph 2 shall be added: 3 inserted: ‘(3) The management of the accounts of public undertakings with only one activity must be governed by the provisions of Sections (b) and (c) of this Regulation. 2 criteria referred to above shall be met.’; 5. In § 7 para. 2 Z 2 is replaced by the word ‘copys and extracts of documents’ by the word ‘copys and copies from those documents’. 6. In § 10 the Abs. 1 and the words ‘(2)’. ==References== 2 will be the date ‘31. ==References====External links==* Official website Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4725	Thank you. Now the application has also been properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4898	Next came Mr Jakob Auerzu. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4922	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing a number of legislative proposals within the framework of these agenda items. My group has also shown respect for Mr Maier's initiative in the field of piracy – I expressly acknowledge this. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to focus primarily or almost exclusively on the area of the Stock Exchange, the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act, because it is clear that there is an approximation here to a directive of the European Union, of course, but it is important to improve transparency in securities. It is intended to help investors and strengthen confidence in such markets, increase investor protection and allow for better interaction between European capital markets. Harmonisation of the transparency requirement regarding information on issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market should be implemented here. Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, even though there has been some critical speech in this area today: The success story of the Austrian stock exchange can be seen! There is no comparable success in Europe at this level. Do you even know, ladies and gentlemen, who are the self- Are there any of the Austrian stock exchange? – It is half the banks, half the companies – companies that have special successes. I just call it "sword-like." Wienerberger, Böhler, EVN, AUA, UNIQA, OMV and others; or in the banking sector: Bank Austria, Erste Bank, Raiffeisen, BAWAG, ÖVAG and others. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at how the ATX has increased performance – within five years by 276.98 percent, that is, almost 277 percent! – and the market capitalization of the Vienna Stock Exchange has increased enormously – by nearly 360 percent within five years! – then you have to say: It's a story of success! The new emissions in shares: 12 000 million went today – in 2002 there were almost 2,000 million! – So a story of success without equal! And we should be a little proud of that. The legal conditions have been created here, especially in economic policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the average daily turnover – so that you know a little what we're talking about when we talk about stock exchange – is €624 million. So that's huge what's being done here! The average monthly turnover of domestic shares is € 13.7 billion. – So a huge performance of the Vienna Stock Exchange! The basis for this is the top performance of the Austrian companies, which are currently active in the East, and here Easter enlargement has had an excellent effect. We are market leaders in various niche areas, the Eastern Europe commitment is more than successful. A solid dividend policy, the attractiveness of the market, and – we should not forget this – the award-winning future provision also fosters interest in the Austrian market. There is therefore a huge number of foreign and international members on this Vienna Stock Exchange. And that is why we have everything to do so that this confidence in the stock market, in investors, can be strengthened. This directive contributes to this, is a further proof and a focus to strengthen these opportunities – for the savings of shares in Austria are still a little backward in international comparison, so to speak. Therefore, we should continue to try to strengthen this positive, encouraging upward development, and we therefore very much agree with this amendment of the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4974	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e4995	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In 2000, specifically in July 2000, Austria was asked, as it were, by the European Commission to provide for separate accounting according to different performance areas of public companies, in order to be able to pursue cross-subsidisation aid, as we have heard several times today. This was commissioned until July 2001. Austria has also responded. Only: The European Commission has so far not allowed the response of Austria to apply. In November 2005, a further suggestion was made to Austria, namely the Transparency Directive, which is to be implemented by December 2006. In the light of the Commission's proposals, the special accounting law in force today regulates the financial relations between public authorities and undertakings entrusted by the public authorities. to carry out activities for the public sector, such as federal government, countries, municipalities or bodies. These companies, of course, also receive the corresponding benefits from the Federal Government for these activities, and precisely these benefits are about the perceptibility of these services, the transparency of the benefits in the form of separate invoices. The deeper background of these guidelines is the aim of Member States within the European Union to be more closely comparable with the European Commission in this area. It is, of course, also of interest for Austria to implement this Transparency Directive as soon as possible, and this law, which is adopted today, will therefore also be passed with the announcement of the law, i.e. there is an underage law in the present proposal. And we, all members of the Financial Committee and the Government, hope that the European Commission has now done enough in this area. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5031	Mrs Hradecsni will speak next. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5053	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I refer to the motion 37/A by Mr Mag. Johann Maier on the amendment tabled by Mr Maier. It has already been discussed and debated in detail because of the commitment of Mr Maier here in the House, that the increase in the extent of the piracy of products is increasing, and that it is now not only extremely negative in economic terms, but can also lead to a deterioration or to a serious risk to the health of consumers. Now the Federal Ministry of Finance has submitted a report on the application of the Product Piracy Regulation and the Product Piracy Act 2004 on the basis of a resolution by all parties represented in the High House at that time. First of all, I would like to say that, in accordance with the amendment tabled by Mr Maier and colleagues of all political groups, I feel it is essential that this reporting obligation be enshrined in law, and I would like to make a few more suggestions on the report. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like the report to be more shorter, more informative and more precise, i.e. less graphics, more information before too much redundancy. There are numerous tables and graphics of the same content in this report, there are bar graphs without numbers. He is also characterized by a very great scripture. However, what I would like to suggest would be that the list of rightholders – that is the list of companies that have submitted a request for border control – will also be included in the report in printed form. This list is currently available on the website of the Federal Ministry of Finance. With regard to the annual presentation of the report, this would facilitate comparison and provide an overview of the further development of the piracy of products. However, from the point of view of consumer protection – and this is, of course, the view I take as a consumer protection speaker – I would like to say that in the sensitive area of counterfeit drugs – according to the report, this is the product group with the greatest increase in the numbers of seizures, which is quite positive; on the other hand, because there are obviously more counterfeit drugs on the market – a fraud is also noted in the report. This is an important indication of the extent to which the actual seizure of counterfeit drugs is moving. From my point of view, and I think this is positive, the report raises a number of questions that provide a good basis for discussion on the further development of the meaningful and far-reaching measures to protect against counterfeit goods. That is why I would like to point out once again the need to make the report as informative and detailed as possible, without being redundant, and to submit it on a mandatory and annual basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5107	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5131	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear to me that if we are discussing reports from the Financial Committee in a debate with 19 speakers, you will not cry out for enthusiasm. It's a shame that an essential member doesn't want to listen to that either. I realize that you are not so interested in this epochal budget speech. After this epochal budget speech, we must rise to the defeats of the financial committee reports, after a budget speech that was just too incredible, with the most incredible fact that the Minister of Finance – Mr State, you will soon have to get used to a new finance minister! – has indirectly announced his resignation. [[Demonstratetive applause by ODP MPs]] [[Abg. Lentic: such nonsense!]] On page 16 of the manuscript – I am talking about what has to do with finances – says: [[Call the ÖVP:For business! On the matter!]] “Every year every Austrian and every Austrian pays €3 050 in interest and debt compensation. This is actually unacceptable,” says the Minister of Finance. “A mortgage like this will not exist with me as Minister of Finance.” He is the Minister of Finance, the mortgage will continue to exist, no question at all, because we cannot repay these debts, and neither will the budget and the next budget. Although the Minister for Finance has spoken several times of two double budgets, i.e. four budgets: Four budgets can't do it either! That is, if the Minister of Finance says that such a mortgage will not exist with me as Minister of Finance, and we all know that there is and will continue to exist, he will indirectly announce that he will resign. I can't imagine that differently. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is an adventurous thought!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Your interpretation!]] I know Mr Molterer, the Minister of Finance, and as you may know, I am just as he is Upper Austrian. What I have heard here is of course purely subjective and not objective. What was heard here from me was an oberösterreichische Volks Party Farmer Schlaue, mixed with a SPÖ belief that it might be a little bit pervaded with its socialist or social goals. [[Rejoicing at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This penetration didn't actually jump directly into my eye. [[Abg. Lentsch: This is the speech of tomorrow!]] Plattites, flakes, announcements of a general nature: That's it! But there was an announcement that irritated me. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: This is the speech of tomorrow!]] – In the speech of tomorrow, it will be more about family policy, ladies and gentlemen, which you should also be interested in family policy. One thing in the announcement of a general nature has irritated me, as I said: the destruction of our social culture. – Because what did he threaten us? Don't be afraid, he told the employee if you're losing your job! You get three part-time jobs for that. He referred to flexibility; he also used a beautiful American word for it. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Product Piracy is the topic! Wrong speech!]] Should that be the future working world in which we live?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Jakob Auer: On the matter!]] There one lives in Neumarkt and travels from 6 a.m. to 10 p.m. to Wels work. From 12 a.m. to 4 p.m. he works in Vöcklabruck, and from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the evening he works in a bar in Linz. – Is this the future working world, is that the flexibility we want? No, no, no,
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5277	Mr Commissioner, I would like to interrupt you briefly and remind you of this: We will have the first reading on the budget tomorrow. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I ask you to return to the subject now after this detailed trip.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5298	I will return to the subject and tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that we have agreed to the reports of the Financial Committee listed in your agenda under points 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Financial Committee after appropriate negotiations in the Financial Committee and after we have not been able to give two reports, subject to a final statement, the Committee's approval, but the final explanation of our satisfaction has been given. Although we are waiting for a budget that we can only look at with great joy – as an opposition politician, I say, “with great joy”, because there will be a reason for good opposition speeches – normal legislation must continue, and in these cases it is normal, correct and correct legislation, and therefore we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5325	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5347	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I will now concentrate on the piracy of products in my statement, although several agenda items are under debate, because I believe that the piracy of products, which we represent in various forms and which is an unestimated threat to the European economy, i.e. the falsification of branded articles and trade in imitations, for serious companies, but also for their workers and for consumers worldwide, is becoming an ever-increasing problem. Falsifications are increasingly produced by unscrupulous entrepreneurs, which are almost completely underground. Companies are cheated on turnover, workers are concerned about their jobs, and producer and consumer countries suffer losses in taxes, but also social taxes. In the meantime, not only luxury goods such as brand fashion, watches or jewelry are being faked, the range of fake items goes a lot further today. Clothing and brand items have a large share, but also children's toys, sports goods, software, mobile phones, music and movies, car spare parts, complete cars, food, drinks, medicines, medicines, machines, even entire factory facilities and aircraft parts are today imitated and marketed. The counterfeit products are manufactured uncontrolled and often do not comply with European standards or with safety standards. Just remember that phones were on the market whose batteries exploded! A huge risk to road safety is also the forgery of car spare parts, such as braking equipment, and the greatest safety deficits have been demonstrated in investigations. And now more and more counterfeit medicines are coming into the market in falsified original packaging, whose composition is highest... – Yes, in original packaging! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: How does it work: “in fake original packaging”?]] Fake original packaging! Fake drug products in counterfeit original packaging, Mr. Colleague! You have to be careful about what I'm saying! – The composition of these medicines is highly questionable, and they are also sold more over the Internet. I'll just give you one example: It is very worrying when heart-circuit tablets are sold, made of brick dust, yellow road marking color and then given a good look by a furniture polish. If such a thing comes into the market, it is very, very worrying! The WHO has strongly warned of risks of counterfeit medicines, and I think so. The fight against piracy is getting tougher and harder. More and more perfect are the imitations, and the trade over the Internet and the concealment of countries of origin by the redirecting and intermediate camps in countries that are considered as low-risk countries make the information more difficult. In this context, it is particularly important that there is also a European action plan between 2005 and 2008, which provides for customs operations in the main ports and airports. For example, more than 90 containers of sea containers with wares could only be secured recently. Leading European customs experts are now cooperating with economic experts and experts from third countries. The Austrian customs administration is also very active in this area and has entered into a partnership with the economy in the fight against piracy. In 2006, the Austrian Customs Ensigns secured 679 consignments of 137 713 fake items representing a value of €10 362 073. The most common were clothing, but also fake phones. Fake phones are at all a fake boom today, but also watches, jewelry and computers are among the most fake things. But more and more popular are also counterfeits of medicines and their distribution. The annual report of the Federal Ministry of Finance on the application of the 2004 Regulation and the 2004 Product Piracy Act is in the interest of both the working people, consumers, the economy and the public sector – and therefore we are very pleased that this report is now on the agenda every year and is being presented to us all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5383	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5407	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The meaning and purpose of the budget speech of the Minister of Finance on the day before and there is an opportunity to discuss it the following day is in the interest of the House, namely to be able to study the fullness of the materials also in the necessary time. In this sense, I would like to point out the previous contributions to the budget for tomorrow, which, I believe, will provide sufficient opportunity to present the various positions at the first reading. I would now like to briefly comment on the points on the agenda, in particular on the questions raised by the honourable Members. Part 1: Piratery. The work of Mr Maier on this question has already been expressed worthyly here over the years. But you have to do this compliment to the whole House. In reality, the House is prepared in a cross-group agreement to address these central concerns of citizens. As has already been pointed out, product piracy is not just a question of economic damage to the trademark holder – it goes beyond this area clearly! We have heard that cases of drug counterfeiting have increased dramatically. I can refer to the report of the Federal Ministry of Finance of the 6th century. In March 2007, it was sent to the House on the basis of a 2006 resolution. In this a total of 12 271 counterfeitings of medications are listed in 127 cases. And if you add 17 940 pieces to the one case of smuggling, a total of 30,000 counterfeit products are present. If you look at the overview in the report, you see, we have the strongest increase in medicines: 2004 no cases yet, 2005 55 cases and then a dramatic rise in 2006. This shows the extent to which the administrative challenges exist. And I would not like to miss this opportunity to thank also the ladies and gentlemen of our customs administration in the Federal Ministry of Finance. That's a hard job, and I have to say they're doing this job well. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore also easy for us to say that we are happy to accept Parliament's mandate under the tax-amending law, namely the obligation to make this ongoing report here in the House. It serves to clarify, it serves to revitalize and thus ultimately to protect the population. The batteries and similar things were mentioned. We do not want to hide at this point that even branded products can cause batteries to reach a dangerous state, but in the area of counterfeit products there is no one who makes a product recall, there is no one who complies with technical standards – in the end, the consumer who has paid expensive money and believes that he has got a full product. – Therefore, protection against piracy is ultimately also protection against fraud against consumers and consumers. The second part concerns the question of the Special Accounting Act, which is application 81/A. I would also like to thank the Government Bank for the cooperation of the political groups in this area. In the framework of the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgetary In relation to the open and delicate question, it is agreed that: How do I carefully limit the number of organizations active in the field of general care from the increased bureaucratic effort of separate accounting? to include a uniform new definition in the explanatory statement to § 4. This has been achieved in the cooperation of the leaders of the political groups. Mr Dolinschek, who had to read the longer paragraphs, apologized. However, there is the possibility that the House will include its idea of interpretation, which is included in the extended provision of existence, in the reasoning for the amendment of the paragraph. As far as the area of the Stock Exchange and Banking Act is concerned, I know that essentially a unit of all political groups has been established. However, it has remained the open question in the discussion between the political groups, but also with my House: Is it useful to be at the top of the EU Directive, or is it useful to have a lower threshold in the same way as other countries? I do not want to hide at this point what I said in committee: Transparency is always a protection for small investors. A healthy stock exchange is a stock exchange where, as far as possible, all market participants have the same access to information. Each asymmetry in access to information means that one market participant will have to pay another an information advantage for money. It is therefore appropriate to consider not only implementing the directives, but also in the interest of the Vienna Stock Exchange. On the other hand, I also understand that until today the plenary session did not have the necessary time to make a full evaluation, and only the support, as well as at the BMF's Group leader meeting, – I know that from the BMJ's colleague, Mr Berger – should be provided with all the data, as soon as it is possible, and that, if this House, within the framework of a resolution, calls on the Federal Government or the two ministries to provide the necessary data that would be prepared jointly in conjunction with the Takeover Commission, but also the Capital Market Officer of the Federal Government. Our offer is to provide all the data quickly, to present the international comparability and to make a decision of the House possible on this basis. If we had two months for this work – now I'm turning around and looking at the colleagues of the ministry – we'd get it. In this sense, the offer to deal with it quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5486	The next speaker is Mr Ferdinand Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5510	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! I would like to talk a little bit about the discussion that took place in the Financial Committee on Financial Market Supervision and its future, because I believe that the debate itself was quite factual, quite certainly at the bottom of the government programme. After there is also an own-initiative proposal from all parties from the last period, I think that we should continue to discuss it in the sense of this own-initiative proposal. I believe that the whole development around the Banking Investigation Committee, also around the discussion that comes from the insurance sector, where it is pointed out that the attempt to treat health insurance similar to the profits, as regards life insurance, can be seen with caution, but also the whole question, which is constantly in the room, such as cost factor and double track. But I do not think that you should go here now and discuss any extreme variant and any links of supervision to other houses, but you should, just as the government programme says, consider how we can further increase efficiency in this form of organisation, but also, of course, how the regulatory powers look and whether there can be cooperation here: Cooperations, for example, between the Financial Market Supervision and the Ministry of Finance or Financial Market Supervision and the Main Committee. It is also a question of where supervision of the financial market occurs independently in a regulation. I believe that, in the context of the draft which is currently before us, as regards the amendment to the Regulation on the Annex to the Audit Report, we should be careful not to produce double-tracks again or to generate additional costs. For example, we know that in the context of a novel in 2005 following the recognition of the Supreme Court of Justice as regards the issue of official liability, we made a clarification in this respect, where it was also made clear that there should be no double track record. It would be a step backwards now if one were to go back in the other direction at the present draft I am referring to. In this sense, an appeal to lead the discussion to the fact that financial market surveillance in the form it is now is is being optimised and more efficient, and to discuss a cooperation model with regard to the issue of regulatory powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5553	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. Text time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5574	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The EU Transparency Directive we have and we are implementing today also aims to better control cross-subsidisation. In my opinion, this is generally a proper approach, but one must also be careful that one does not pass away from one's heart when it comes to one's right approach and one's, for example, the area of public services that regulates the provision of living and thus, in fact, is more at risk than one wants to create good. The proposal for an initiative, which is also in place, precisely defines the undertakings concerned and excludes the area of general care. These are important goods and services such as hospitals, health services, social security, the national education systems, the activities of non-economic consumer protection institutions, parties, churches, scientific societies, protection and auxiliaries – all of which provide important services for the general public. And we now have it after a lengthy discussion, which has generally been at European level for years. In this context, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, To ensure clarity and protection, at least through the exception. By this concrete separation, we also ensure that these services are available to the population in the good way they have been available so far. The second point concerns the amendment of the Stock Exchange and Banking Act. Again, this is an improvement in transparency requirements, and I believe that the current discussion on Böhler-Uddeholm has shown that we really need to think more intensively about how we can improve transparency requirements. This is about reporting, and from my point of view, it should be discussed whether the current threshold of 5 per cent is really the right one, whether a lower threshold is perhaps even better. I think it is very good that the Secretary of State has also announced today that it will be asked to what extent this is taking place in the other European countries, and we can then hold the discussion on the basis of this secure data material. However, it is not only about the threshold value, but also about the reporting period, which is now shortened, to be halved from four to two days. The publication period, which then has the supervision of the financial market, will also be halved, which will also provide an earlier information. Reasonable thresholds and shorter deadlines are necessary, I believe, especially in order to protect small investors – not only this but also to protect the entire capital market, but above all to protect small investors. We must be aware that financial supervision, in terms of transparency, needs to be speeded up in times of a faster capital market, and therefore legal regulations must also provide for a faster operation. – From this point of view, the amendment of the Stock Exchange and Banking Act is to be welcomed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5619	Mrs Lentsch's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5641	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to speak about the product piracy law, because if you get into the Internet these days, you can easily see that almost every brand product is offered in any cheap replica. There is a Rolex around €250, brandjeans or Lacoste-Leiberln and such things more at a fraction of the real price. Unfortunately, this product counterfeiting is still seen as a cavalier crime, and people have the least pity with the companies too. That's in the nature of the thing. I think that's what makes you feel bad about it. Many believe that the products of jewellery and fashion companies are still far too expensive – just because a particular brand insists on them! Therefore, the product pirates also have a light game. These people, however, overlook that it is not just a matter of jewelry, fashion or computers, but it is mainly about drugs in recent times. And here my tolerance limit stops, ladies and gentlemen! From 2004 to 2006, the number of counterfeited products has increased considerably, especially in Austria. We in Austria have secured strict safety measures, by doctors and pharmacists, but these safety standards exist Of course not with the counterfeit drugs and especially not on the Internet. These products can even be fatal, ladies and gentlemen, we must experience this permanently from the Third World. We must therefore inform all consumers of the dangers they pose when they buy or consume such products, because in a globalised world, access to such drugs will become increasingly easier. – This is a fact that we should all be aware of. A first voluntary report on piracy has been available to the National Council since mid-March, and today we are to ensure, with the change in the law now before us, that an annual report on this piracy will be available. . The Austrian People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal, as is already the case in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5677	The next speaker was Mr Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5698	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! It's a matter that we'll decide unanimously. I am convinced that the amendment to the law that is being adopted here is also one that is necessary, on the one hand, because it is to be understood, in accordance with the directives, and on the other hand – and I think that – because it is good to get more transparency. But I would like to deal with something more than my previous speakers, who have been so pleased about the stock exchange in Vienna. I am also pleased that she is developing well, and I am also pleased that better transparency will give more incentive in the future. I think all of this is extremely important. I also believe that the improvement of bankruptcy rules will make a decisive contribution in this area of contractual netting. – All of these are positive developments, and, ladies and gentlemen, we share these contractual obligations. However, in the interests of the Austrian banking and insurance sector and its employees, I would like to say critically that I think we are far too rarely dealing with the question of the timely entry into the discussion of the directives in the European Union. In reality, it is always when we get the directives – for example, in 2004 Basel II and today the directive for the stock exchange and banking sector – that we say: We need to understand! But the question is: How much influence on this issue of development has been asserted at European level? Where is the Austrian Parliament involved? This question should be discussed more critically once again, because there is already a re-adjustment of the MiFID Directive, Markets in Financial Instruments Directive. All this has happened to us, so to speak, and I hardly believe that in addition to a few insiders, someone knows what MiFID means for the Austrian banks, which may also be a significant cost increase through a documentation that is required here. But no one is discussing from the beginning, but you're going to sit down and say, It is a directive of the European Union and is therefore an adjustment until 1. November of this year is necessary. Where does the discussion remain – also critical – as an incentive for the European Union? I would like to say that, for example, the issue of the disadvantage of smaller institutions is not at all discussed by these considerable burdens. That's how so many things, what's going on today. praised as progress of transparency, partly becoming a nightmare with regard to the administration. So, the next adaptation is before us – I know it's going to take some time, but it's already being discussed in experts – and then someone will stand there and say: We need to understand everything! The question is why we do not put something like the directive – in the interests of our domestic economy, in the interests of our banks and insurance companies. It is not enough for me, ladies and gentlemen, if we assume that they will already know what they are doing, because I believe that the tendencies that become visible here are actually tendencies for the “great ones”. All the others will find it difficult to understand and really achieve requirements such as Solvency, which is to come by 2010 at the latest. I would therefore like to invite you to hold a discussion in the Financial Committee on the fact that we have not just understood the directives that have been in place for a long time, but that we are very likely to develop guidelines for the European debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5750	Next, Mr Magistrate. Ikrath to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5771	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! We have discussed a subject on the Special Accounting Act intensively in the Financial Committee. Of course, we have discussed several topics intensively, but one issue was that in the case of a very extensive interpretation of the law, special accounting groups for mortgage banks and municipal savings banks would also be imaginable. The Secretary of State has already found there – very gratifyingly – that this is not the case from his point of view. We have now also collected insurance from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and I would like to quote this – because I attach importance to the fact that this is also in the Minutes – what the Ministry of Economic Affairs has announced: ‘The so-called ‘useful measures’ of the EC of 30 December 2016, formally accepted by Austria, April 2003 on the abolition of the flat-rate liability for municipal savings banks and Landeshypos with a transitional period of until 30 April 2003. No doubt, September 2017 does not create new obligations for separate accounting in separate accounting groups. Due to the flat-rate nature of liability, it would not be possible to imagine which separate areas would be formed here. Also the liability of liabilities for the period after the 2nd century. ==References== April 2007 alone does not require any additional accounting obligations under the Special Accounting Act. Also typical banking and savings bank business services do not require accounting separation within the meaning of § 5 of the Special Accounting Act.’ This clarification was important, and under this condition we can also agree to the bill. Another comment to the Stock Exchange Act – I regret that Mr Krainer is not present now, but I would like to keep this all the more conscious here: It is the history of the Austrian stock exchange under the last government a true success story. It has ensured that jobs have been created in Austria, it has ensured that the Austrian companies have been able to perceive the opportunities in the East – Mr Auer has already called the companies. It has ensured that Austria's economic location is attractive and that we can successfully provide the citizens of Austria with private future care models. But those who say that there is an open market for participation must also say that they have maximum transparency. In this context, I am glad that we can still take into account concerns of the committee of takeovers today, shorten reporting obligations, and put voting agreements which are not written under the law. This involves further strengthening the stock market location, and the thorns we have kissed awake and are now an attractive young woman will be given another morning gift – for the good of Austria and its economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5819	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5841	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! Although there have already been a number of comments on the product piracy law, I would nevertheless like to deal with some of these issues. I think it is justified on the basis of the importance of providing broad information. We recognise that the European economy and, above all, consumers are increasingly facing the consumption of dangerous products. Not only more luxury goods, now all product groups are affected by counterfeiting, and the problem is that there are no safety standards for these products, that they are dangerous and harmful to health, and social problems are also related. We know the effects of such products also from investigations from Germany; it has been pointed out in connection with fake spare parts for cars, aircraft or mobile phones. A particular problem is undoubtedly the forgery of medicinal products. WHO believes that at least 10 percent of all drugs are counterfeit drugs – consisting of questionable compositions, contaminated, ineffective, health-damaging, partly even toxic, and not rarely are these products produced by child labour. It is necessary to inform as widely as possible about this problem. The enemy of the pirates is the information, and I therefore believe that today's novels will make an essential contribution to the investigation in all these areas. It is important for me to thank the “star” of the day, our friend Jacky Maier, who is primarily responsible for the fact that we have this novelle today. His commitment and, above all, his tenacity have led us to decide today this novel. – Dear Jacky, thank you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to thank our State Secretary, Christoph Matznetter, who has promised us in the Committee that on the question of information, he would like to make every effort to ensure that the problem and the content are very widely informed, as far as possible to everyone. Finally, I would also like to thank our customs authorities, whose work we are finally living through. In summary, this is the work of the customs authorities, and I would therefore like to thank the customs authorities on behalf of the Social Democratic Group. I would like to thank the Group for this valuable, important and good work. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The importance is undoubtedly also in the dimension of total turnover, which is now at least €350 billion; Trend very strongly rising. The medications – I have already mentioned it – are a special product of pirates, and that is what we find in the development of these numbers of attacks. In 2005 alone, 800 000 counterfeit medicines were seized at European borders. Austria's development has been reported several times today. In addition to the problems already mentioned, safety, risk, health problems, social problems, it is of course also very important to deal with tax failures, profit losses, turnover losses with the following employment problems. I therefore believe that we are required to strengthen our efforts to address this problem. I am convinced that today's resolution will give us a good basis for future reports in order to create effective laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5907	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Schools. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5928	Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. High house! Today's issue complex is basically about protecting ownership responsibility, protecting the owners and interested parties. It's about product piracy – it's about model protection, intellectual property – and the protection of consumers who trust in manufacturers' liability and assume they're buying something good. The Special Accounting Act deals with the responsibility of public enterprises in fair competition, clean competition, and it is ultimately about transparency in securities. In this question, and this is very interesting, it is about people trusting their sour savings in money to others, even or through funds, putting this money into the hands of third parties, trusting that they as owners are similarly responsible, decently operating. This is very important for our economic activity, so it is logical that the EU is as interested as the State is, and therefore we have financial market supervision as one of those institutions that have to be observed. Of course, there are always owner failures where owners themselves do not care about their affairs. Then there are embarrassing situations, and how embarrassing this is, we have only experienced in the Committee of Inquiry on Financial Market Supervision and so on. For example, Mr Verzellnitsch was questioned, and it was for the best or the worst that he and the representatives of the union actually failed as owners, did not ask, did not know anything, understood nothing and made sure that they would no longer have any ownership concerns in the future – because the property is gone! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the owner, these gentlemen have failed. They were sent because they are responsible for the cash registers in their trade unions, often they are still today – but it's easier if you don't have anything left! The property is gone, they have freed themselves from concern. ==References== May is coming soon, the anniversary of the great events, and I am excited whether in these organs the processing of these processes finally begins. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5974	The next speaker is Mr Steindl; another three minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e5995	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In my contribution to the debate, I also deal with the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act in 55 of the Supplements, and I welcome the impact of the new Banking Act. On the one hand, more transparency in securities, approximation of a European Union Directive, harmonisation or transparency requirements regarding information on issuers whose securities are admitted to trading on a regulated market are to be implemented. The main difference between the new regime at national level is that all issuers on a regulated market are now equally affected by the information and publication obligations of the Directive, and therefore there is a broad alignment of transparency requirements for issuers in official trade or in regulated free movement. Finally, it is about creating equal opportunities between small investors and institutional investors and continuing the path of attracting the Vienna Stock Exchange, as we have heard, with an enormous performance of 270 percent in five years. These include transparency and equal conditions. If one has heard here today that it is important for small investors, but also for institutional investors, to create transparency, with a new information obligation to have interim reports, quarterly reports, half-yearly reports, then it is certainly easier for investors in the future to decide which companies they are investing in. On the anniversary of the BAWAG crisis, I can recall once again that the BAWAG would have done well to get more information about its investors and investor activities regarding more commercial due diligence, then the Austrian Trade Union Confederation would have owned BAWAG, one of the largest banks in Austria, today; unfortunately, it still belongs to the Cerberus Fund.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6031	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6053	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Like my previous speaker, I also refer to TOP 4, Banking and Exchange Law Change Act, and to certain circumstances that have found their causes with the BAWAG-Malaise. First, just one economic argument: The regulatory authority given to the FMA is a very critical matter. At Basel II we talked for a long time about what this poses for problems, in almost infinite discussions trying to solve these problems – it simply remains a bad hybrid, either authority or something else. We usually create more problems than we believe we can solve. That is why Mr Rossmann has also declared that we are voting against this title. But I can make a connex on financial market supervision as such. If the financial market supervision and at least the previous finance ministers have rested to represent the opinion that it is exactly an independent authority when it looks good that it is independent, but it is precisely then a dependent authority, if it is good that it depends, then this double game must have an end. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling smiles.]] – There is nothing to laugh about, colleague stupid, waiting for the end! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I’m just looking friendly!]] We are not prepared to play this double game for a number of reasons, and the Committee of Inquiry has already brought key results to light up to this point. Which are these? Why can you only warn all colleagues to agree to this strangely bad hybrid solution? – If it is suddenly opportune that a Finance Minister sends out a cabinet employee via e-mail to the Board of Directors of that Financial Market Supervision and directly instructs him to answer a whole catalogue of questions in order to harm a particular political party, then the incitement to official abuse and nothing else! - Screams [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] You are not so loud, because the cabinet worker is still sitting with Mr Molterer; we will continue to follow this up. But that's what the employees there – oh what a coincidence! – meets a board of directors who was previously secretary to the Minister of Finance, you can't explain this to us as a coincidence; nor is it that another cabinet employee of the old Finance Minister – you know, who was sent with the dazzling bathing pants, exactly – to the central bank to answer such questions there too. That's quite clear what it's all about. A real or supposed, more likely a real red network – which was not so red alone; we do this day after day – from the nineties was stifled by a black network with that finance minister in retrospect! And that's not as funny as you do. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A dream filler was sent to the FMA, to a responsible post – you have negotiated with us for years that this FMA is created at all, highest tones have come from you; look at the pitiful condition of this institution at the moment! – for the note bank, the Minister of Finance has appointed its own director, who has also come out of his cabinet. – This triangle will become interesting if it is the first time in the Republic to harm a political opponent in this way in an election campaign. Then press the button. Then the Haberer von Grasser in his cabinet is successful by finding a Haberer in the FMA and another Haberer in the sheet. Congratulations! However, this network still exists, and Finance Minister Molterer will have to take care of these people and this network once, because the undisputed state that a red and black network in the 1990s has prepared this entire BAWAG-Malaise – wait for this one minute we still have – does not legitimise what has happened here and now; that goes up to the question in the large credit evidence, inspired by a black finance minister. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] They have tolerated this – the same people, the same Members who want to prevent the financial committee and the financial market surveillance committee from doing their work every day, because it is supposed to be banking secret! But they have no fear of breaking any privacy policy to harm the political opponent. This is your double morality – and that's the only thing that's double today. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The best in the end from your point of view: Leave yesterday Your group leader in the investigation committee on banks negotiations – we wanted to prepare the work to the end until the reporting deadline – comes back again with the indication that he no longer has a pouvoir of his club, to grant any new date, the whole must now be in the presidential. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you know what that means? You should remember that a National Council audit mandate is still a National Council audit mandate that cannot be “overruled” by any wind and bloating of the ÖVP party apparatus. - That's the thing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It won't help you. – Yes, it may be that sometime behind the scenes you have the Ladies and gentlemen from the SPÖ have pulled over the table again, which does not seem to be so difficult, yes, sometime at the end of May, but we will not allow it. They will not get through publicly at all that the dates will be cut if Mr. Taus, when Mr. Sleep, if Mr. Vranitzky by the way, if Mr. Flöttl, if all of them are to come to give information about the political network, was the cause of all this scandal. Hypo Alpe-Adria, certain other things – the Director-General of the Black Banks obviously knew exactly why they wanted to torpedo this committee from the first day. But You are deputies, you are not bank directors of any Raiffeisen sub-divisions or corporate roofs: Get your conscience back out of the wardrobe, that's quite simple, vote against it with us today and just don't block the work of the investigation committee! That's the most important thing. The best proof that this is your project is that the chairman of the Committee of Inquiry on martial aircraft has similar perceptions. You won't get through with your black-orange blockade policy because you don't get through it publicly, and we'll take care of it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6146	The next item is the speech by Mr Krainer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6168	High house! To the Banking Committee only one sentence from my side, and that is: The test order shall be completed. That counts. The only thing that counts for us is the test order, and it's to be done. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It all breaks together!]] I should like to make a request for amendment and a motion for a resolution to the debate on the subject. Both have already been mentioned in the debate, so I can limit myself to reading. The amendment proposal Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, Weinzinger, Bucher is a four-party request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The motion for a resolution is a five-party resolution: Motion for a resolution by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummful, Jan Krainer, Mag. Bruno Rossmann, Lutz Weinzinger, Josef Bucher, colleagues on the preparation of a report on the implementation and impact of the Federal Act amending the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act "The Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Justice are invited to submit a report on the transparency obligations on the capital market to the National Council by the end of 2008, on the basis of the experience of the competent authorities (acquisition commission and financial market supervision) and involving capital market experts. This report is intended to present potential areas of problem and to show solutions. Furthermore, the Federal Minister for Finance and the Federal Minister for Justice are to be sent to Parliament by 15. September 2007, with the involvement of the competent authorities, reporting on international examples and experiences of a reduction of the lowest reporting threshold currently at 5% to 2 or 3%, as far as information on this is available. In addition, a presentation of the different assessments of such a reporting threshold should be submitted to the National Council by the Takeover Commission and the Financial Market Supervisory Authority, as well as accompanying improvement proposals for the acquisition right.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6272	The two proposals tabled by Mr Krainer, the amendment and the motion for a resolution, are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6448	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This brings us to the vote, and I can ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. First of all, we are voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals, on the draft federal law amending the Product Piracy Act, in 53 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Johann Maier, Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Mr Rossmann, Mr Weinzinger, Mr Bucher, Mrs Bucher, Mr De Keersmaeker and others, tabled a joint amendment. Since only this one joint motion was made, I shall immediately vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the amendment mentioned above. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have received this draft law and the title and receipt in 53 of the supplements, as amended by the amendment tabled by the honourable Member, Mag. Johann Maier, Dr. Stummvoll, Mag. Rossmann, Lutz Weinzinger, Bucher, Colleagues and colleagues give their consent to a positive sign. - That's unanimity. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft Special Accounting Act, in 54 of the Supplements. Hiezu is a joint amendment tabled by Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, Mag. Mr Rossmann, Mr Lutz Weinzinger, Mr Bucher, Mr Colleagues. Since there is only one joint amendment tabled by him, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt in 54 of the supplements as amended by the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr Mag. Rossmann, Lutz Weinzinger, Bucher, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act, in 55 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stumvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr Lutz Weinzinger, Mr Bucher, Mr De Keersmaeker and others have tabled an additional or amendment. First of all, I will vote on the provision concerned by the supplementary request and finally on the draft law as amended by the above amendment. Deputies Dr. Stumvoll, Krainer, Lutz Weinzinger, Bucher, Colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 45a in Article 3. I'm looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Members of Parliament Dr. Stummvoll, Krainer, Lutz Weinzinger, Bucher, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Article 2. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately vote on the draft law, title and entry into 55 of the Supplements, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr Lutz Weinzinger, Mr Bucher, Mr Bucher and Mr Co-workers mentioned above. If I agree, I'll look for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Stummvoll, Mr Krainer, Mr Mag. Rossmann, Lutz Weinzinger, Bucher, colleagues on the preparation of a report on the implementation and impact of the Federal Act amending the Stock Exchange Act and the Banking Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 14.) Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the bankruptcy and compensation regulations, together with the title and receipt in 56 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[12:08:00]] 6. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (2D.B._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Latvia on the prevention of Double taxation on income and wealth taxes (57 d.a.) 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (27 d.a._Other Organiser Protocol amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Sweden on the prevention of double taxation in the fields of income and wealth (58 d.a.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (28D.B._Other Organiser Protocol between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia amending the Convention on the Functioning of the European Union, of the one part, and the Republic of Slovenia, of the other part. Agreement on the prevention of double taxation in the area of income and wealth taxes (59, B.B.) signed in Ljubljana on October 1997
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6656	We shall now proceed to points 6 to 8 of the agenda, on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. This is the first speech made by Mr Magistrate. Arbitrators are present. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6683	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This is, as has been said, about three double taxation agreements. One thing between Austria and Latvia is important in this respect, because there has not been one and there is the follow-up of a double taxation agreement for the territory of Latvia under the double taxation agreement with the Soviet Union, which has already fallen for some time. Another concerns Slovenia, which is an adaptation to license fees and, in part, to interest income, and Sweden is in fact not a double tax agreement, but a change that prevents a double non-taxation which has been possible to date due to the legal situation and agreement, namely, the increase in the value of company sales, if one has at the same time no longer had residence in Sweden, but in Austria, i.e. the repair of a double non-taxation agreement. All three are important and right decisions, and I would therefore like to briefly address a further question, namely: This system of double taxation agreements between two states is a very lengthy and a very bureaucratic one, as we see it, and is always to be adapted and, above all, to negotiate and decide bilaterally between the States. It is therefore necessary that we also use a few thoughts on the harmonisation of taxation within Europe. This is not only a question of preventing double taxation, but also, above all, of preventing harmful, unfair tax competition. From this point of view, it is probably necessary to discuss the harmonisation of taxation across Europe and to ask whether, for example, it would not be more useful to establish the basis for the assessment of business holdings. In order to avoid unfair, harmful tax competition, it is necessary to unite Europe-wide in order to have at least a minimum limit which is calculated from company taxation in order to avoid unfair, harmful tax competition. And: Wouldn't it also make sense to introduce a uniform minimum limit to introduce a lid down here? . I think that would be useful and would also limit unfair tax competition and lower the location question to the tax advantage question rather than to the quality question. And it would also mean at least a small step towards greater efficiency, because it does not really correspond to efficiency and red tape in this area, to negotiate the double taxation agreements between Member States - each Member State with each Member State - extra.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6732	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6753	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The debate is about double taxation agreements between Austria and Latvia, Slovenia and Sweden. Before: We will all agree with three proposals, but I would nevertheless like to make a few comments. Clearly, it has been possible, both in Austria and in Sweden, in certain cases, to double the non-taxation of acts which can be taxed in themselves – and I do not think that it could be, because double taxation agreements, so-called DBAs, as one might say, should not have the objective of then being paid in both countries at all, but rather the objective must be to pay tax in one State and to compensate for this in the other State. That means, of course, we are against double the payment of taxes for one and the same case, but of course we are also against double non-tax. [[Abg. Oillinger: That would be the principle of grass to the square!]] Yes, that would be a whole new principle that would help to break through here, that is quite right, yes. This may also bring me to a very different topic – or perhaps this topic is not so different: The current government is very generous in its announcements on the abolition of taxes – keyword: Heritage and gift tax. Perhaps this tax loophole with Sweden, namely in the DBA, has also used a few in Austria very well. This tax loophole will surely have been discovered and used long before the administration – this is the rule that tax advisors are always a little more sensitive than the administration itself. But I would say – that is, the remaining 99 percent of Austrians – have not benefited from this. Rather, this non-taxation has led to a tax downturn, which we have been able to feel very well in the form of a rigid savings course in recent years, which has manifested itself in overcrowded school classes, in higher self-serving, in the state of universities and the like. Now you'll say: Yeah, now he's already starting with it again, with the inheritance tax and so on, but it's true: Just as we are in the case of Sweden for closing tax loopholes, so in the case of inheritance and gift tax, we are not for an abolition, but for a reform of the same. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We do not want only a few to benefit, but we believe that as many as possible should benefit from a fair, even an environmental-social tax reform. I therefore urge this Federal Government once again not to abolish the inheritance and gift tax, but to reform it: to tax those who have the great assets – that is, to exclude the so-called millions of heirs, the flicks, the Bartensteins and what they all might call – and to exclude the small house builders by generously free amounts. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6796	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6817	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We will decide on three amendments to avoid double taxation – that is perfectly true. We, too, are against double taxation and will agree on all these points. However, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk here before the House in general about: How do such amendments come about? As a general rule, officials, experts, specialists in the home – or in this case in the Federal Ministry of Finance – will find that there are shortcomings that certain things in these agreements are no longer up-to-date, and then a draft will be presented. This draft is then available to every Member, including the members of the Financial Committee, and there is a justification for each draft. It also has a special reason why I bring this to the House today: I would remind you that we decided to amend a double taxation agreement with Switzerland about a year ago, and the reason for this was as follows: First of all, the problem – clear and sound –: The Austrian-Swiss double taxation agreement has proved to be in need of revision. - Okay, so something has to be done. Objective: Preventing tax revenue shifts from Austria to Switzerland. Alternatives: Risk of loss of revenue of up to €40 million per year. Financial impact: In the short term, loss of revenue could amount to €10 million, but this would serve to prevent much greater loss of revenue of up to €40 million. To the extent that the reasons on which all members of the committees should actually be able to rely on or rely on them, a corresponding decision will be taken. So, and I have already mentioned this in the Committee, Mr State Secretary, you know: In fact, after a year since the entry into force of this double taxation agreement, the Austrian State had a loss of income of more than €30 million, because this amendment agreement, in this way, as it was here, was decided here in the House. Mr. State Secretary Matznetter, I appreciate You are very, very much, and I hope that your colleagues will be in your opinion or act as you did: They stood up and said: Yes, there have been mistakes, but not mistakes on our part, but Switzerland has forced it to change this because it simply wanted to get more money from the 12 000 borderers – and that is the problem in Vorarlberg. You have apologised for something you have not at all been responsible for! I think this is very heroic of you. I hope the opposite will do the same when it comes to you. Well, that was great! However, your statement, Mr State Secretary, has nothing to do with this statement, which is available to present these amendments. That is to say, I would have expected the specialists to be better aware of this instrument, which deals with all these problems, and then, of course, the Members who are members of the Financial Committee would also point out, in the same way, what dangers such amendments of agreements might pose. I would ask you, Dr. Matznetter, that you, as a new State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, also stop your employees more carefully with such reasons, so that no longer occurs, with amendments to agreements or at all with such agreements with other countries, income losses or tax losses for the State of Austria. If I have heard the budget speech of Mr Finanzminister today, as we speak here in the highest tones, what will happen in the two double budgets – by the way, in the case of two, i.e. by the year 2010 – and on the other hand, we are constantly experiencing such inadequacies that we are losing in tax revenue on the basis of an agreement or amendment in the year 30 or over 30 million, I hope that you will also succeed in the implementation of your goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6871	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6893	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The three double taxation agreements with Latvia, Sweden and Slovenia are double taxation agreements, as we adopt them half-yearly in the High House, which give taxpayers legal certainty. I believe that all Members of the House have an interest in the fact that these double taxation templates are also adopted here in the sense of equality and the same transparent tax treatment. Double taxation has already been mentioned several times today. Moreover, the inheritance and gift tax is also a double taxation, because assets and assets are taxed, which have already been subject to the tax. That is why we are going to come forward today with a deadline for abolishing the inheritance and gift tax as a double tax. [[Abg. Brosz: And what about VAT?]] We are on the double taxation agreements with these three countries, because it is also important in the European context to create legal certainty for the citizens of the European Union. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6930	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e6952	Mr President. High house! I would like to comment briefly on two points. Member of the European Parliament Arbitrators have pointed out that the closer the network of agreements, the more agreements are necessary. However, I do not want to hide the fact that we are increasingly getting to the limit of the feasible when the enlargement of the European Union continues. It is a fundamental condition for the functioning of the internal market and of the Union that all Member States have concluded agreements with each other in a reasonable time. This is absolutely necessary because there is a interaction between the agreements to avoid double taxation and various directives of the European Union. I only recall the Mother-Daughter Directive or the Interest Tax Directive or the Merger Directive. That is, in this interplay, we must ensure that the network works smoothly. However, according to the principles of mathematics, this means that the formula n factorial minus one half indicates a very, very rapid progressive increase in the necessary agreements to be concluded with each new Member State in the future, and thus clearly highlights the need for enhanced cooperation in the European Union. At this point, I should like to point out that on his first visit to Berlin, Vice-Chancellor Molterer made it clear to the German Presidency that Austria's willingness to support it in the form of the harmonisation of corporate taxation. I find this reasonable and correct and am also pleased that Austria has been able to develop its position in this direction. The second question raised was the question of the double taxation agreement with the Kingdom of Sweden. In itself, the speed of adapting agreements is clear here: Our ladies and gentlemen in the Ministry of Finance took place on 23 and 24. In May 2006, the revision negotiations were conducted, and the protocol was already open on 21 May 2006. ==References====External links== Subject to the National Council election, we have a delay that is purely due to the legislative process of Austria, but in principle the Ministry of Finance is trying to carry out timely revisions. But the problem is also: In the complexity of international tax law, tax advisors, lawyers and experts are often much faster than the administration itself until it comes about what you are missing. That means: It is a constant struggle to lead the foundation and in this sense to adapt continuously. I understand that this is a process that is also a process that is difficult for Members – we have several agreements to deal with each year in this respect – but I would ask you to understand that it is necessary to take such measures so that not individual taxpayers can derive tax advantages from a double non-taxation and thus would be one-sided preferring to those who are subject to tax only in one country. On the topic of Switzerland: This is a special case. I ask for understanding that I am, so to speak, in a dual function, in a difficult situation. I have drawn attention to this problem as a member of the opposition. [[Abg. Head: That won't interest you!]] And I have pointed out the risk that we are actually making municipal funding, but of loud communities in the Swiss Confederation. That is why the SPÖ Group did not agree to the double taxation agreement at the time. At that time, however, the explanation of why one wants to do it was the same, and of course it also has a true core: Switzerland has put a certain pressure on Austria in connection with the rules on frontier workers – that is, in the course of negotiations – and it has, as it were, put us before the alternative, either to suffer an even higher loss or to yield in this area. I was personally in the financial office of Feldkirch. We have talked to the ladies and gentlemen who have the difficult task of the accusations there. Of course, there has been a change in the area, but it is not likely to reach the amount you have previously quoted. At least € 30 million would hit us clearly, but it should not be that high. I promise, however, that, on a good occasion, I will draw up a report without further demand, and may allow me to announce this through political groups. – Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7005	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, I put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7026	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Front: The Social Democrats will agree to these agreements, the double taxation agreements with Latvia, Sweden and Slovenia. In terms of content, all three are already explained several times, so I can save myself that. However, I would like to point out that there may also be a need for revision of the double taxation agreement with Germany in the future, and this in connection with the abolition of the inheritance tax in Austria. It is important for me to point out at this point that, although the ÖVP insists on a replacementless expiry of this inheritance tax, that does not yet mean that the SPÖ also wants to abolish the inheritance tax. No, we don't want the abolition. We want a socially just and performance-promoting repair with correspondingly high allowances. [[Call to the ÖVP: What is the benefit of this?]] I personally believe that this process means nothing but once again the redistribution away from the poor, to the rich. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lentic: such nonsense!]] In this opinion, we are also greatly encouraged by a large number of economists: 304 in the number recently confirmed that the taxation of the transfer of very large assets is justified and even necessary for a fair tax policy. It would provide scope for the reduction of taxes on work, which in turn would strengthen incentives for employment and performance. In connection with the low income from capital taxes in Austria: We are 1.1 percent, the EU-15 average is five times. There are countries where this reaches the 20 percent mark. I therefore believe that an adjustment is justified. An approximation to the European level would bring more than €4 billion – this could help to reduce labour income, increase employment, strengthen small and medium-sized incomes and also strengthen consumption with the corresponding positive effects. I think that our current situation, in which state funding is mainly carried out by the working people and small businesses, is limited to a sustainable situation. We will also have to get to Austria for all those who are richer to make a greater contribution, for example, to the Group companies. I therefore hope that today's discussion will also help to ensure that we take into account and reflect on national and social contexts accordingly, and beyond ideological and client-political considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7079	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7100	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! A small supplement to the previous: The Committee chairman of the Banking Committee and I have just gotten this convoluted, but this is only the index of files which are transmitted to Parliament during these hours. [[The speaker shows this]] For months we have been dealing mainly with the refusal of authorities – argument as before! – to check the files because, among other things, the FMA held back the files! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler]] Now the files are coming, and if it had gone after you, the U Committee would have stopped working for a long time. That's your method, but it won't go through! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Next point – for the protocol, so that we as a Member of this House do not have to be generated in the future, when Members here say from the speaker's desk that it is good when they are gone, because that has already been taxed: You know, with the same argument, you have to abolish the sales tax and as well as all other taxes, because for everything you have really earned and then spend, you have previously paid wage or income tax! But this should be accessible to you by house mind if you do not get out of your briefing papers otherwise. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am now in favour of abolishing the sales tax on sausages, but certainly – where is the youth speaker?, I don't see you right now – because there has already been wage and income tax paid before. [[towards ÖVP]] This sales tax belongs away, which was written by the ÖVP in the main book! A very bad tax! Now on the real issue. We also have a reference to the control bank in these double taxation agreements, which is explicit in that with Slovenia. We have an unfortunate case in these days, where Parliament must also consider whether this can continue. It's about two things: First of all, it is about formal, procedural transparency procedures and second, about one thing, namely the Ilisu-Staudamm – this is, of course, a matter of international economic policy. First of all, on the occasion itself: We consider this – not just us, but many NGOs around the world, human rights fighters, ecologically involved and so on – to be a devastating project for at least four reasons: first of all from ecological, second from social – the eco-social market economy, the Minister of Finance is already gone, lets greet! ; yes, we will come back to this hypocrisy – thirdly, cultural-historical arguments and fourthly those of international politics. [[Abg. Grillitsch: The eco-social market economy belongs to us!]] Ecologically, this dimension is a huge problem – I am now saving you the explanations – but it is of course not without social policy. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Watch what the Austrian taxpayers are liable for here: 285 million liability! Every “Pipimatz agricultural promotion mini-package” will be tuned here, and your jubilant songs about these operations are not ending. This is about 285 million tax money de facto, if the liability is hit, and the Parliament is not informed, the Committee is referred to as being able to look at the Ministry's homepage. These are the procedures! We have made reform proposals here, but it was the ÖVP with its canal of the time, which now remains the same in the color, the other function is to define which has largely prevented this. We take this on the occasion to announce a new initiative that we will either stop with this dispassionate, that the Parliamentary Financial Committee will be informed at some point when all these operations are debated and dealt with prominently throughout the world press, by the way also in Austria, and that the information will pass through an integrated decision-making process before, or we will simply leave it. We do not need an increase in Parliament! At this point, we agree with the Secretary of State, who has expressed himself in a similar direction. Now I come back to these event points again. Tens of thousands of people need to be relocated there – rural economic structure, agricultural population. It is not clear at Weitem where these people are relocated, what life's task they get or what perspective they have at all. That's explosive! And now I wonder what it should be about the social ethos of the ÖVP if the Minister of Finance does not give me anything for such things, nothing gives you the guarantee declaration, but they say: Our hands are tied! It would be right for you to help the Minister of Finance if Parliament were integrated, because he could at least speak out for our ethos, which you have to accept. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Next point: Cultural historical monuments at the age of 5,000 to 7,000 are simply rinsed there! - You might still be able to take that. The opposite says yes – you know that from other contexts –: We're bubbling it out, putting it on and making it an archaeological Disneyland! Don't worry about it. But at least one argument should still be available to you, namely that of the international dimension. It is an insanity to ‘clap’ into the Kurdish region such a project that is also socially controversial, always with Austrian consortium leadership there, although Iraq and Syria have not even been consulted according to international law! They were not – and informed by pass. The tensions rise, even for this reason! I also understand these countries in a way, because the water can be turned off at the top of the river and the “political opponent” – between the signs – can, of course, regulate that. You know exactly what the meaning of water now has, what valuable raw material it is. Despite all this, we say nothing more or less to me, nothing to you: Bravo, let's do it, because Austrian companies are there! Finally, I agree that economic policy is a difficult decision, because it is not quite wrong to say that otherwise it will make others. But in order to maintain at least a rest of credibility, it would be reasonable for Germany, Switzerland and Austria to negotiate with these countries or at international level or at OECD level, where this regulation has now been intensified, to fight and say this freerider problem as well: If we don't, then you won't, or only under certain conditions! And if there are such requirements, which is claimed, then at least it should be possible to control whether they are being observed. Do you know what happened? – Mrs Bayr put a question in this direction. The answer was: Yes, there are the conditions, you can all be calm, but first, we don't tell you exactly what these are, and second, we don't tell you whether they are being observed! You've got to get rid of this loot! Another procedure or we'll stop this nonsense! This is because, as I have said, it is also a question of whether or not we are going to be hooked here in Parliament. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the case itself, you judge how all the points of relevance here fit into the whole ethos of this ministrant kittel-bearing budget speech! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7195	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The report does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote, and I ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. We shall first vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreement with the Republic Latvia to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, to grant authorisation in 2 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, on the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Protocol amending the Agreement with the Kingdom of Sweden to avoid double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth to grant approval in 27 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol with the Republic ==References====External links== The agreement was signed in Ljubljana in October 1997. In order to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, it is necessary to grant authorisation in 28 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:40:58]] 9. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment 122/A(E) by Mr Mag. Melitta Trunk, Franz Hörl, Josef Bucher, colleagues on strengthening year-round tourism against the background of increased climate change (51 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7274	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. As the first speaker, Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7304	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We of the Greens are in favour of strengthening all year round tourism. Both from an ecological point of view and, of course, for labour market policy and sociological reasons, it is in any case necessary to avoid the extreme strains that arise during the winter season. I am very pleased that both according to the government programme and according to the report of Minister Bartenstein on the situation of the tourism and leisure industry in Austria, one would like to set out in principle measures towards year-round tourism. The details are not yet revealed to us, but at least. The proposal now before us goes a little further in the direction of action. He also shows clearly where this sudden and unexpected offensive comes from in the direction of year-round tourism. What's this about? – It's just about money! It is not about understanding that the enormous loads of our alpine areas in the winter season have serious environmental consequences. It is also not a question of understanding that the small villages with their huge bedding castles will become totally destroyed towns for nine months a year. Nor is it about understanding that labour law for tourism workers becomes a fairy tale collection in these months, according to the motto: It was once a week's maximum working time; it was once banned, such as the prohibition of sexual assault at work. So there is nothing really understood, but this change in thinking stems from only one reason: that there was no snow this winter! [[Abg. Rädler: Who's to blame?]] The “Goldsel” winter tourism has “constipation” – and then you recognize the need for action. Well, our motivations are different, at the goals we approach each other. Ladies and gentlemen! Look But please take the measures! The back door, that You can leave yourself open with this request, like the Brandenburg Gate. Your concern for climate change will last exactly as long as we have enough snow in winter. My colleague Gabi Moser will explain in detail in her next opinion why, from an environmental point of view, we simply have to reject this request; I would like to say something about another point. This point simply makes it clear that once again in the government parties the declarations of intent and the concrete measures are very far apart! For if, according to the request, you have already realized that year-round tourism is preferable to extreme winter tourism – see the application, see the government programme and see the statement of intent in the situation report on the tourism and leisure industry! – why support everything in the world and then finance the largest winter tourism marketing event Austria has ever had? Why Support You most massive investment in the winter sports infrastructure? Why do you support the Salzburg application for the 2014 Winter Olympics? – I’m very sure of this! [[Abg. Wheelers: You're so far away from the world!]] All of you, ladies and gentlemen, have agreed to this massive investment in winter tourism in the next few years with the Liability Decision. We are talking about an implementation budget of € 772 million and an investment budget of € 148 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, of the FPÖ, of the BZÖ and of the ÖVP, all of you have agreed to the request concerning Olympia. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] They also agreed to the request for support for tourism throughout the year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kainz.]] So what now: huge offensive in winter tourism or all year round tourism? To strive for both makes a little bit of sense. I'd even say you could believe that's nonsense. And, unfortunately, we cannot support foolish politics!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7386	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7407	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs Mag. Honey, the assault you've just done in connection with sexual harassment in tourism, I'll point out the sharpest! I won't let you set up an entire industry here. That's a joke! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with BZÖ representatives.]] Tourists not only sell our country, they carry it with charm and hospitality out into the whole world. According to a summer 2005 T-MONA study, 98 percent of guests call the Austrian places “hospitable”, 94 percent as “sympathetic” and 90 percent as “enjoyful”. We tourists are comprehensive quality of life producers – the best in the world in the most beautiful country in the world! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP as well as congratulation with BZÖ representatives.]] Austria is happy to present itself as a place of conviviality and conviviality. That is, the image of Austria is either strengthened or weakened by advertising and media reports of any kind. It is therefore also important that our country presents itself honestly and authentically in this context. A positive image of Austria, of course, also helps in other economic sectors and strengthens the location of Austria. We have a lot of nice things in our country at any time of the year for guests from all over the world. Market research, such as the German T-MONA study “Holiday Travel Trends 2015” on the development of German tourism demand proves that authenticity is increasingly asked by holidaymakers. More than 60 percent of Germans focus on originality and at least half of Germans on intact nature and healthy environment, which, by the way, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, has been preserved by the past generations of our farmers and our inhabitants of the Alpine valleys. Today's protective ideas preserve only existing and preserved for centuries. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The careful protection of our cities about the landscapes in our home country is a sure high thought, but it is felt by many people, for example residents of our mountains, as slightly overwhelming and mostly oppressive. Successful tourism has a lot to do with passion and professionalism. In our offers we must awaken emotions at the guest, convey to him the feeling that the holiday is a very special time. Guests dream of special experiences, and our task is to fulfill these dreams and make them come true. This only works with great professionalism and diligence. The old hosts of our country should be a model. They live before us what hospitality and service mean, in the sense of the words “guest ” and“ friendship ” and “service ” and “service. ” Tourism is currently undergoing a profound change. We have a high level of quality in Austria to defend. In addition to the hospitality of permanent product improvement and further development and innovation, it is necessary to maintain this. We have to be very active in this. Every individual in tourism has to ask himself whether his offer meets international requirements. This applies at all levels, at the same level as at the supply level of the region and also of the country. In principle: We need solid basic equipment, but also highlights. In order to be able to live the required authenticity in tourism, there is a need for great human performance. In addition to being friendly to the guest, our employees and entrepreneurs must do hard work, which is compacted to a few months in seasonal operations. Professional tourism is hard work behind and next to a friendly smile. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes!]] Surprisingly, the current season offers a slight increase of 0.3 percent with 40.4 million nights across Austria – and this in this very difficult winter. This is also a result of hard work and high investments in the ski areas. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This winter, however, there are also areas, farms and regions that are one of the dramatic losers. Behind these are people, human fates that must be our concern. I would like to thank our Federal Minister Bartenstein, who has already responded to the request of our sectionobmann Schinner. At the end of the season you will have to see how to help these people. Our joint proposal aims to define the need for a quality development of our tourism even in times of the end of winter and climate change. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Because remember: Professional tourism is hard work behind a very charming and beautiful smile!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7476	Mr Hörl, I assume that you wanted to take back the expression 'anguish', and it has not been your intention to use it. [[Abg. Hear: Yes!]] Am I right in the assumption? - Yes, otherwise I would have to give you a call for order. [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens: He said “Do! ”]] [[Abg. Hörl: Please call for an order!]] The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7534	This is also an attitude, Mr Hörl, and I appreciate it: You're on what you said. Mr President. Minister for Tourism, Leisure and Economic Affairs! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A comment on the comments made by the colleague, Mr Schatz: I think our common objective and principle of a good tourism policy is to try to harmonise ecology and economy, and if they are not contradictions. Point two: On the issue of climate change, I would like to say the following: Due to delays in dates, it will take a little longer, but you need to know that we have agreed in the Tourism Committee to hold a poll on climate change. In any case, we'll be dealing with it longer than yesterday's headline. The last point in which I cannot agree with you: I do not see highlights and events such as the Olympic and the Euro 2008 as contrary to year-round tourism. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Bravoruf des Abg. Wheeler.]] They are simply an incentive and necessary. Abbreviated: Tourism and the leisure industry, especially the leisure industry, in which people in their own countries also participate, are predicted to have a high development potential for the future. What do we have to do, what new priority do we have here in Parliament? – We have to create those conditions and conditions that, for example, promote contemporary and forward-looking leisure and tourism policies according to adequate criteria. It will certainly not be enough – we know that from all policy areas – to continue writing traditional, existing funding directives, criteria and measures, but to evaluate them after some time, to see what it looks like to be sensible and effective, because tourism, like the whole economy, sometimes develops very rapidly and rapidly. It's about responding to it in good time. I think it is also optimism that Mr Hörl has addressed with passion. I do not want to get too close to anyone, but I think that connects all the members of all the groups in the Tourism Committee. Climate change is one of the essential elements on which we need to build changed structures and conditions. But this also includes – and in this respect I feel the same passion, Minister – that in cooperation with the Minister of Science, we are making continuous science and research in the field of leisure and tourism an essential feature of Austria. There is a large field of work and activity in scientific field, and this would be of direct benefit to the economy. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] It is projected that some two million people will also have a chance of employment across the EU in the area of tourism and leisure. We should use this opportunity, but we should also have a very clear and keen look at the starting situation for Austria. First of all, the slightly negative points: Unfortunately, we lost the pole position in the global ranking of international arrivals in 2004. Our market share of international arrivals is 2.5 percent – we are similar to Turkey, which is not so bad at all, but compared to France, you always have to see the better, with a share of 9.4 percent, Austria still has a lot of potential. However, the Austrian market share in international tourism – which is not a slender step, but a clear look – has been falling steadily since 1995. The length of stay – this has something to do with income, time and leisure – is also constantly falling. But that doesn't necessarily mean anything negative. But what has not changed or changed in a positive sense is the share of direct and indirect value added. The contribution of the leisure and tourism industries to GDP – we have not reached 17 percent – is between 16 and 17 percent. What is also positive and worthy of improvement, but at the same time represents an opportunity, is the increase in employment in recent years by 11.2 percent. We must be aware: Tourism is an economic sector in which people are at the heart of action, action and activities in every respect – consumers and service providers. Tourism is equivalent to the art and cultural policy of the Republic of Austria, both traditional and innovative. Our business card, which we issue in the world, is strongly influenced by the leisure and tourism industry. The leisure and tourism industry is very important, because of its international importance, but also in terms of climate, because it makes it possible to break up some nationalist tendencies, and therefore has a right to a strong joint commitment. Since the red light shines, I come to the conclusion. A thanks to all those who have done successful basic work so far, AK and, for example, the Austrian Hoteliers' Association. Thanks also to the staff in the Tourism section. As a woman-conscious parliamentarian, I think it is just right, Minister, for you to put women in top positions in your area. That's all right, I think that's commendable. For tourism in Austria, what applies to us in the Committee, without spreading the beautiful speech and incense: Only together are we strong in international competition! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7644	Mr Hörl, I would like to make a point of order for the phrase ‘Frequentness’. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7673	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Talking about the importance of tourism in Austria and also in Tyrol is necessary. He is thanks to God of vital importance. Every fifth job comes directly or indirectly from tourism. We are really glad that it is. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I should like to comment briefly on the comments made by my previous speaker from the Greens. For me, it is terrifying to talk here in the House about the extreme stress in winter tourism, which it must be avoided. I would therefore ask you once, Mrs Mag. Honey, what you're guessing the residents in the valleys to get an income. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Honey.]] What are these people supposed to do? Tourism is the only opportunity to create income, money and wealth in the valleys in order to avoid emigration, which we all want, because it would mean extra traffic, and that is exactly what we want to avoid. [[Congratulations with ÖVP, BZÖ and FPÖ as well as with representatives of SPÖ]] We must see that we are creating decentralised work, and thanks to tourism, God is an essential and important point. And I have to say quite honestly that the tourists and the people who really work around the clock in tourism, where there is no time limit at eight hours a day, where you still have to be friendly at midnight when you meet a guest so that the guest remains a regular guest. If these people listen to your speech, I understand very well that the party of Greens in the valleys, in the valleys, has received a modest percentage of consent. [[Abg. Sburny: We grow in contrast to you!]] – And that is right, because no one will rationalize his own workplace! [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the support of this request is concerned, I have already stated to my Group in the Committee that we are, of course, in favour of year-round tourism – no, just! Logical! That's one thing we've been following for years. But – now the big but –: How do we want to achieve this? There's nothing in here. However, we will nevertheless agree because we say that the delicate plant of tourism must be made to grow. If there is already a common platform for all tourism speakers, where – and I have the feeling – one tries to improve constructively the conditions and the framework conditions for tourism, then we will probably not reject this request. We will support him, but we must, of course, fill this request with content. Only the announcement to make tourism year-round has nothing to do with the tourism industry at all. If this text – and you agree with it today – says that the Minister is being asked to make strategic considerations in order to create the conditions for a year-round tourism, I am already asking myself something. I believe that Mr Bartenstein, as Minister of Economic Affairs, will hopefully consider tourism without this call; I think that is also a task I expect from a minister, namely to think about what to do for an industry. – And more is in this request, please, not inside! Of course, we support this, but it is a matter of course that a minister is thinking about strategies that can be created so that one can even implement this year-round tourism. What we would expect, Minister, are concrete data and information on these points listed in the request. Of course, the Austrian cultural heritage is better used as an excellent resource for tourism, but – now the big but –: For example, the Bundesdenkmalamt has the most modest financial means to preserve old farms that really stand for tradition and culture in tourism. We must also take money into consideration in Vienna in order to create the financial conditions for the protection of cultural goods. I also believe that it is absolutely necessary for the medium-term development of tourism that Tyrol is recognized as Tyrol. And Tyrol, for example, can only be recognized as Tyrol, if old farms, old houses and shelters are preserved. This is where we will have to take money in order to create the conditions for it. You say in this request on the one hand, we need to further expand the infrastructure. On the other hand, I get a notice from a commercial authority that makes it difficult for an operator of a shelter with an almost astronomically high and incomprehensible conditions to operate for tourism at all. I refer here to the contradiction in this request: On the one hand, it is said that we must create conditions for infrastructure, on the other hand, Mr Minister, it is difficult to achieve this very activity. May I just bring to your attention some interesting points from this current decision? – A shelter is, according to commercial regulations, a farm situated in a poorly developed area which is dedicated to the needs of mountaineers and mountaineers, also a farm which has traditionally grown for years, which can be operated mainly only in summer and, depending on the weather situation, only in a very modest period of time, where, of course, the appropriate financial resources are not available to implement such absurd regulations. Now, for example, such an operator of a shelter is given a notice from a commercial authority that regulates how the steps of a step must be obtained. The notice states that the height – please, at a shelter! – a maximum of 18 centimetres and the step depth must be at least 26 centimetres. - Well, that's an absurd thing for me! In this notice, for example, it is also said that hand touching fittings must be present in the kitchen. - In a shelter! Or it is stated in this notice that one must build a separate toilet for a single employee who is employed, because it seems that it is not possible for the only employee to go exactly to the toilet, which is also the boss. The boss may, in accordance with commercial law, go to the same toilet to which the guests go, and the employee may not. For this reason, this operator is required another toilet. – In my opinion, these are really absurd things that need to be eliminated. That's why I say: Of course, we support this proposal, but we have nothing of it – and especially the tourism companies have nothing of it – if you say on the one hand that we want to strengthen the infrastructure, we want to continue helping the businesses, and on the other hand, it makes business more difficult. Please, a little more courage to reality, a little more courage to the house mind and also a little more commitment to take money into your hands. Then we'll take a little bit further for tourism! Again: I am glad that we have a rather constructive relationship in the Tourism Committee in order to reach some kind of future for tourism – also from here, from the High House. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7737	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7758	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I am pleased that after many years it has succeeded in re-thematizing tourism in the High House. In recent years, we have not had the opportunity to discuss the tourism reports of the successful Minister of Economic Affairs in the High House – in recent years – but the tourism report has been completed in the Economic Committee. [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] Now, through the re-installation of the Tourism Committee, we have an important tool for the Austrian tourism industry to make a positive mood. We have agreed with all the tourism speakers that we want to make the most of this platform in order to put in place the most important federal policy measures in an above-party consensus in order to improve the tourism industry in Austria in the future. This is very crucial because, of course, tourism remains state-owned on the one hand. We don't want to change anything and we don't want to shake it. Every country knows better for itself what tourism policy rails need to be laid in order for tourism to go well. We should be complementary at the federal level to ensure that decisive measures – legislative instruments – are implemented faster than they were in the past. We now have this opportunity with the Tourism Committee. I know from the past that the tourist speakers of the individual political groups were not always easy in their own group. Now it will be easier because we can promote understanding here in the House, together with everyone, to ensure that the tourism industry is given a corresponding priority – not only as it is, of course, the case in the agricultural sector, although agriculture accounts for only 2% of GDP, and the tourism and leisure industry account for almost 16 percent, i.e. an eight times higher volume of value added. That is why I feel it is very good to be able to address tourism accordingly now, to take important measures, what federal tourism conferences are about – as we have agreed to put climate change in the focus of our tourism policy now, to work out the opportunities and challenges for the tourism industry and to encourage tourism. That should be our task. Also: to present tourism positively and not the bad headlines as they are there and there, in the media, beat down to support, but to oppose. It is simply an important area of responsibility for every member of the High House – including the critical views of an oppositionist – to ensure that we work positively for the economy, that we encourage entrepreneurs, and that we do not make everything bad. I do not understand that a political group is opposed to an Olympic application and that it is obviously not clear what a major economic factor the rural tourism industry represents – and what such a big event for a federal country means. I do not understand how to deal with such a great opportunity. We stand by our group, of course, to support this Olympic application, to ensure that the Federal State of Salzburg also receives the supplement to guide this important major event. I hope that in future we will not only address all year round tourism – which is a matter of course for me – but that we will take up many other issues more quickly, manage them more efficiently, not push them to the long bank, that we will really also use the Tourism Committee instrument to go to the federal states. In this respect, we have already reached agreement among the tourist speakers that we are going to the federal states, where we are integrating the tasks of the future into our decision-making process, in order to quickly also adopt the measures and in future influence tourism as an important support of the Austrian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7816	Mr Bartenstein spoke next. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7837	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If I had been told a few weeks ago when winter had already been particularly snow-poor and in parts of Austria as snowless, that it could be possible to write positive figures in this winter, then I would have done so as unrealistic. Now the Statistics Austria tells us: By the end of February, the balance sheet was positive – ladies and gentlemen Hörl had already commented – plus 0.3 percent and at least 40 million and a few more nights. This shows how well winter tourism develops. Not that more snow would not have done well, but this also shows that Austria's tourism is at least partly geared to such developments. However, this should not conceal the fact that, of course, especially in regions that had to work on the edge of snowlessness, companies could find themselves in great difficulties. I would therefore like to be willing and, in part, have initiated this to provide assistance here. Let us be glad that this assistance – the hours of loans and the like – had hardly been used so far, hardly had to be used! But at least we have created the opportunities, together with the tourism industry, with the stand representative, with Mr Spartanobmann Schinner. Thus, Austria's tourism is as a whole very encouraging. I count for this winter tourism overall for 2007 with a turnover increase of at least 2 percent. Tourism as a job engine has already been described. It is good that there is now a Tourism Committee; so it is good that we also have more and more opportunity to discuss this issue in plenary and thus in front of a particular public. It is also good, ladies and gentlemen, if different opinions are expressed. The Austrians should take a look at how it can be assessed politically if a political group, the Green Group, sees a joint project such as Salzburg's Olympic application negative, which is opposed to this. But it is not the first time that, from my point of view, the Green Group in the area of tourism itself goes completely away. Let us remember that since the year and day of Austria's greenery has been against snow-making plants, there was once a time when Austria's green snow-making plants wanted to make EIA mandatory! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Hauser]] One thing I guarantee you: Little snow, which still lasts our winter tourism, but de facto the abandonment of snow-making facilities, that would not have prevented winter tourism. Tens of thousands of jobs would have been lost. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] You, the Greens, would have had the responsibility to bear, ladies and gentlemen, [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You have the responsibility...!]] Climate change and tourism, which is indeed an important and exciting topic. I would like to thank you for the fact that we now want to carry out investigations, including discussions, namely, with regard to the scenarios present today, the risks that certainly outweigh, but perhaps there and there also the opportunities for tourism under the title of climate change, to know in good time what could happen to us, then take measures in good time. Overall, I consider the discussion that is going on across Europe, which was also particularly committed to us by our Environment Minister Sepp Pröll, not as negative to our tourism. On the contrary! I was at ITB together with our tourists, Austria was once again excellent in Berlin on this largest tourism fair and trade fair in the world. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Hörl.]] If Germans and other tourists, in turn, think more strongly that long-distance flights do not do or even promote climate change, if they think more strongly, the good is so close and come to Austria, then this is good for our incoming tourism, because still about two thirds of foreign tourists come from Germany. The German market is the most important. Looks like: A dedicated discussion on this subject, one time or another of the relinquishing of a long-distance tourist flight, will be better for Austria's tourism under the line than elsewhere. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on some of the points that have been made in the field of year-round tourism. The common objective is beyond dispute: It is always useful to strive for more year-round tourism. Much cannot be earned in two, three, four months, for which in ten, eleven or twelve months you can see possibilities; the economic necessity alone shows this. It is very interesting to note that only the measure I have in common with the AMS that job seekers who have re-establishment commitments will no longer be transferred to another job if this re-establishment commitment lasts less than eight weeks – in the past it was designed for up to three months – has led to a clear recovery of the labour market, also in tourism. There, too, it seems possible to provide labour market policy, by means of appropriate incentives and measures de facto, for more full-year employment or at least for longer-term employment. It is true that, of course, the promotion of cultural tourism, of wellness, health tourism, of congress and seminar tourism goes in the direction of a year-round tourism, because all of these things can be performed all year round with good will. Now we all know that in the inner alpine area the possibilities are different than in Vienna, Salzburg or central areas where this can be made easier. But in the Tourism Committee, professionals are at work, in part Members who have a tourist background. Here, realistic and practical work is done, and I thank you for that. Finally, on some specific criticisms from the debate. Mrs Trunk! They have noted that the international market share is going back. – That is right, but this is naturally seen in the light of development, that entire parts of the earth, that whole regions are being newly opened up to tourism, that there are not only more parts of Europe, but large parts of Africa, Asia, Australia, and, and, as tourism takes place, the loss of traditional tourism destinations in terms of world market share is almost inevitable. However, Austria still has a very significant share. The whole world has some 800 million arrivals. You see, Austria is not so badly positioned. Being a tourist country number ten is still a proud place. And if you put it on per capita income and leave out certain island tourism destinations here, that is, larger countries of the country, then Austria is still world tourist champions at all. No other country has such high per capita tourism revenue, not even Switzerland, nor Italy, nor France or Spain – they are far behind us. Last but not least, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of shelters – referred to by Mr Hauser – is: I cannot and now do not want to evaluate in detail this business law decision you have presented, but just tell you that in my current budget, too, measures have been taken to continue the very important and successful protection cabin rehabilitation programme. - Point one. Point two: Of course, protective cabins can also be establishments to answer safety and hygiene questions. If there are stairs in a shelter, the commercial authority can no doubt depend on the safety of users in terms of height and depth of steps. As a matter of fact, mountaineers and mountaineers are not really different from other people from the safety needs. When it comes to hygiene provisions in kitchens, it is also likely that a kitchen in a shelter will not automatically set a different standard than a kitchen in a guest house, because it concerns the health of dozens or perhaps hundreds of guests. So with measure and purpose – our authorities are known for this, but only per se can you not apply completely different standards in terms of safety or hygiene in shelters than in other gastronomy establishments. I'll add that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7903	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7926	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Fortunately, you too have taken place here, Mrs State Secretary, because the tourism sector is characterized by a working environment and characterized by a working environment that differs from other working environments. I would like to emphasise what my previous speaker said that people in the tourism sector are being used for work up to the limit of their performance. And this is not always voluntary, but these are often constraints, because the guest has priority – and that also after midnight. One can, of course, be grateful to these people, but the greatest gratitude would be for finally introducing regular working conditions on favourable wage conditions, namely satisfactory wage conditions for the workers. This is already a massive point that I always think of, especially in the tourism sector. I am grateful for your attendance at the debate, Mrs. State Secretary. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Hörl.]] Minister! Because of the current situation – climate protection debate, weather conditions, tourism report, nightings, sales increase – you have now briefly addressed the snow cannons in winter tourism. Minister! I spoke specifically after you, because I would like to have an objective debate with you. They have also shown a number of approaches in the Committee. Minister! Our problem, climate change, is above all that past federal governments and the ÖVP have done little to nothing in terms of climate protection for decades – you personally have been in the Federal Government for years. Now comes the system cosmetics with the snow guns. [[Abg. Rädler: Now we need snow guns!]] This is the result of your policy, namely that you have to disregard climate change and now shoot cannons, so that the tourists as a whole can still find a field of activity in the traditional sense. [[Abg. Wheeler: Please!]] I don't think it's from you that I'm so excited to play the ball over now. You yourself are to blame for the fact that such conditions also exist with us, although I find myself very critical, Minister, you are not the weathermaker highly personal. It is about the world climate and not only about the Austrian climate, I also say that. But back to the proposal and to the tourism report, which unfortunately is not on the debate here. To request year-round tourism: Of course, we are also in favour, but this proposal is so general, contains so little concreteness, is so inconspicuous and saying everything that I believe is just too counterproductive, because with the adoption of this proposal you can cut off the chapter of year-round tourism today, although nothing really happens that our tourism is developing in this direction. That is why we will not support this request, but, in due course, we will ask for very concrete demand packages that will really help people, help the host industry, help the people who are employed there, help the valleys that live on it, which need to be tourism all year round to give them a new economic basis. First of all, I see the problem in that you – and you have also surprised me positively, Minister – have worked very unilaterally in the funding policy so far, and that it is precisely companies that often need to obtain funding, namely those under certain annual turnover limits below the limit of €150 000, so far have been excluded. Fortunately, they have now come to the contrary view that they too should be promoted. I think that even with regard to the development of year-round tourism, this is a positive step, but it needs to be extended. Mr Trunk, we have discussed the Committee and we have discussed it before. I think we need much more targeted and concrete measures, otherwise I cannot explain that a specialist journalist sent us to the committee meeting with questions: What is meant by model regions? What does that mean? [[Abg. May. Trunk: He sent this because he had gone earlier!]] The Government Declaration also states: Model regions. – What are model regions? I consider that to be quite right, as it must become more concrete. Another point in this motion for a resolution is the quality of use and further expansion of infrastructure. Unfortunately, we can't carry that either. I'm afraid I've already exceeded my speaking time. I have not yet found time to appreciate the 2005 tourism report, which is really excellent and which should now be discussed here. If necessary, I will repeat this in the 2006 tourism report. Minister! Anyway, you have to deal with the snow guns a little different. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e7995	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8017	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Introductory perhaps: Mr Hauser, you said that in future the Minister should give himself some thought to tourism. - I think that's a little way to go. He is the highest representative – also for the framework conditions. If you see how tourism in Austria has worked in recent years, how the framework conditions have been created for this, I simply have to say: Mr Minister, thank you very much for this great and full commitment to Austrian tourism. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, I am particularly pleased that all the leaders of the group in the Tourism Committee are actually of an opinion on the topic of year-round tourism, because we know that Austria has a potential, with its natural and cultural landscape – with its lakes and with its hiking offer – of course also in winter – with the alpine area – in the early and after-seasons and in the inter-seasons – with its natural and cultural landscape, with which Austria does not need to hide internationally, but also has tourist advantages. These benefits can be benefited, this year-round tourism needs full support not only in the sense of businesses, but also in the sense of employees. The individual points have already been raised by my previous speakers – whether wellness or culture or so on – but I believe that we should not only consider what support and what support the tourism industry needs, but we should also consider what discharges we can give to tourism companies. Unfortunately, it's been a long time: We know that tourism, especially in the rural sector, which has already been mentioned by the previous speakers, is the only economic branch of secondary or main activity next to agriculture, where, thanks to tourism, there is a certain wealth at all. There is no such thing as other industry, which also includes special taxes. Remember: Tourist charges are lifted, local tax is lifted, tourism charges are abolished. If you calculate this, this is a sum, except for the high-price offer, which is almost a second rate of VAT. I think we should consider why tourism has to pay special tax charges and we are not equal to the other sectors of the economy. Nor does it come about that the capital ratio is so low, especially in the tourist sector. As Mr Bucher said earlier that tourism is a matter of country, because no one knows their own problems better than the countries themselves: I'm sure you're right. With regard to the charges, I would like to see the federal case, that we all have the same level of tax, and that it is not the same as last year in Carinthia, where we have punished the hard-working farms, which, especially during the low season, are bringing new tourists back, with a doubling of the amount of the salary and with a 40 to 60 percent increase in the tax on tourism, the farms which contribute somewhat to making a seasonal extension, a year-round tourism. Let's all think about it and see that year-round tourism does not remain a keyword, but that we will also implement it in the next few years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8074	The next item is the speech by Mr Elmar Mayer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8098	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, there would be much to say about tourism. Topics that have already been tailor-made are climate change, sustainability, tourism research et cetera. Of course, only relatively little is possible in 3 minutes. As a representative of a small state, I would like to address a special concern, namely the immense importance of tourism for the Austrian roof mark. Each of our nine federal states has its own charm, whether this is our federal capital Vienna with its special qualities, whether these are the individual federal states with their diverse regions. And also my homeland is one of those nine pearls that represent our federal states. I have only a fraction of the time I need to explain the priceless value of these pearls. Ladies and gentlemen! What we must do with all our power is to act in the area of tourism, and thus also in the external representation of our country in small-scale and envy complexes. I would like to give you a small example. When my home country Vorarlberg was very impressively presented in the latest edition of the “MERIAN” and a target group of quality tourists was presented, the individual regions of our small country literally got into the hair. That's a shame. You see, this is really a great presentation in which the federal state of Vorarlberg is represented here. [[the magazine showing]] The representatives of those federal states who have already enjoyed a presentation of their country in the “MERIAN” know this. Also the first Results after the presentation underline what is happening in terms of nights, registrations and so on. But here, too, one has been the “food ” of one another in a small way. I think, ladies and gentlemen, we all in the individual federal states, in the individual regions, must overcome this narrowness and small size! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, this is also one of the most important tasks of the newly created Tourism Committee here in the House. It is our primary task to wrap up the precious “pearls”, our federal states and regions, into a magnificent, creatively designed pearl chain. The first great opportunity to present the Austrian jewel as a valuable and unique pearl necklace in the middle of Europe will be the European Football Championship next year. I ask you all to: Let us take the opportunity to present ourselves as a unique country worldwide to a million people, especially the younger generation, as a country in which you are sure, a country that is uniquely beautiful, and a country that deserves a visit to the guests. I think we can be proud that we are living where others are on vacation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8156	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8177	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I think it is undisputed that in Austria tourism is a crucial economic factor. Entrepreneurships are developing a gross value added of €10.19 billion in their 43,100 enterprises. They are also an excellent employer, because around 164,000 people find their jobs here. And they are those who sell our beauty and our strengths to their guests daily. We also had excellent figures in 2006 because for the first time, the number of arrivals climbed over the 30 million mark. I think this too is an excellent result that is achieved in our companies and companies. However, we must not overlook the fact that we had a very big challenge to face in the tourist regions in the winter. Because of the massive lack of snow, of course some ski resorts had to lose enormous sales. But on the part of our Minister for Economic Affairs, it was immediately responded and promised to help without guilt in need. Thank you very, very much! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think that, in this context, we must also look at where our strengths are and where our weaknesses lie. With significant investments, it is certainly possible to make the tourism country Austria even more attractive. And this is the commandment of the hour. The goal of year-round tourism is the right concept for the future. We must try to reach new customer groups and highlight competition-dependent areas more strongly than before through innovative and sustainable measures. Art and cultural tourism is one of these areas. It must continue to expand and position it more strongly. Especially with me in the Danube region of Wachau – Nibelungengau this is certainly a big topic. With the Schallaburg, the pen Milk, the Basilica Maria Taferl there are excellent cultural treasures. More and more people are looking for them – and discover them too. It is certainly very important – and especially the Mostviertel is a region that has done so in an excellent way – to work out the strengths. Everything is marketed from the must-tree flower to the must. It has been working very intensively here for a few years, and I think it is precisely here that the regions are very much required to bring in their ideas and thus to take small steps and to develop them further. The intact nature is an invaluable capital with which we must deal with great respect and great sense of responsibility. But also the entire wellness and health sector is of course a large hanging sign for quality tourism, and it is important for us to continue working there too. The tourism report shows that quality tourism is actually the one that is most booming. The 4- and 5-star hotels are those that really achieve great successes. I hope that we will continue to spend a lot of money on the public hand in the future to increase the number of beds and quality in the regions that may not yet be so far. I believe that the prospects for the tourism country of Austria will continue to be good in the future and are going to develop very well. And I hope that we will work together in the Tourism Committee to achieve these objectives for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8241	The next item is Mrs Fleckl's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8263	Madam President. – The Minister is not here. – Ms State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a lot has already been said about the Tourism Committee. I too am pleased that there is finally such a one here in the House. He's been overdue long ago, but I mean, better late than never. And I mean, he's a good opportunity to take a look at the charming, idyllic image of the tourist country Austria with snow-covered mountains and rushing streams to a surely tough business industry and to help workers as well as entrepreneurs get under the arms and to support them and to create framework conditions for them. In my opinion, the request is a good start. This proposal, which will lead the way to the whole-year tourism that is so important for Austria with the concept of model regions I consider very useful, is so important especially for disadvantaged regions as well as for small and medium-sized enterprises in tourism and leisure tourism. But also mountain tourism, which I believe is totally underestimated as the basis of the public value added, should be given a new priority here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Over 500 shelters with approximately 26,000 sleeping places are part of the development of the rural tourism budget. And as much as they are alike from their purpose, so they should be different in their treatment through the law and through the promotions. There is a need for many improvements and framework conditions, as many questions are still open here: Management according to the situation, differentiation of the conditions by location. For example, shelters on limestone in wastewater treatment should be treated differently from others. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or does it make sense to introduce lock hours for shelters? Or a curiosum of the funding provisions: Hygiene in all honours, and this is important and right also in shelters. But, Minister of State, I don't know if... – He's not here. – Is it really useful to call for mandatory dishwasher systems in shelters if there is not even a power connection there? There are still many examples, but in total, I believe that countries are also required to cooperate with us so that experts from mountain and natureguards or mountain rescue can work here. Tourism, however, is mainly a typical women's sector. Low employment or part-time employment is on the agenda, there are hardly any childcare facilities, hardly any career opportunities. In this context, I would like to mention a very worrying number: Only 20 percent of women employed there have compulsory schooling. There is still much to be done here, for example in the field of tourism education, to correct the deficits. We see that there is much to do, and we have great hopes also in the Federal Minister to work together with us and to achieve good results for tourism and the leisure industry in Austria at the end of the day. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8323	Next item is the report by Mrs Franz. You too want to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8344	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As we all know, the current climate models expect an average temperature increase of 2 degrees Celsius by 2050. For the Alpine region, one even predicts 4 degrees. This would mean that classical winter tourism could be greatly reduced in the future. That is why events and highlights such as Olympics, as the Greens demand, would be completely in addition. These are very important advertising factors for our tourism country Austria. In Austria, and especially with us in Vorarlberg, tourism is a very important industry. In our federal state, almost 12,000 people depend on it, and I wonder what people would do in the valleys, they would not have tourism. Tourism brings jobs, it is personal intensive, and the people in the valleys have work and prosperity. Now, however, the number of nights for the winter season so far is not quite intoxicating. Unfortunately, they show a decline especially in low-story winter sports regions. Therefore, it is important to install new concepts away from ski sports. It has also been shown that places or establishments offering, for example, wellness or health tourism have also been spared from declines in nightlife in a snowy winter. Some of them even made increases. Vacations will always be necessary – and therefore always do. The offers they find are decisive. Here, Austria has enormous strengths that need to be expanded. I am thinking of the culture, the intact nature, the range of high-quality gastronomy and well-equipped hotels that meet today's trends for peace, relaxation and gentle tourism. If tourism experts say that 22 percent already prefer hiking to skiing and is even imaginable for a quarter of the winter holiday without skiing, so our tourists in lower ski resorts are hopeful again. It is important to act and to introduce new strategic considerations in order to install a safe, seasonally independent tourism. The goal must be to make use of the high-quality bed capacity all year round, i.e. to achieve a whole year-round tourism. Thanks to the Federal Government, our Federal Minister, together with the Austrian Hotel and Tourism Bank, as well as the funding and financing bank austria economics service, has already attached a package to support the tourism industry and to promote structural change. I therefore welcome the approval of this request, and if the Greens are already in favour of this request, they could actually agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8390	The next item is the speech by Mr Faul. You too want to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8411	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! You can stand on the statements of Minister Pröll, as you may – in principle, I am convinced that he meant it positively, because he knows what financial power is behind tourism, especially when it comes to rural areas. I just think the approach was wrong. You can't just order something. I think we're applying badly for the second season in particular. If the Minister has said that skiing has not suffered, this is an indication for me – and I say this to my brother-in-law, who lives in the snow cannon above, ever since: [[Rejoicing]] You don't have to apply for winter tourism, people come! The question is: How do I apply for the second season? When the Federal Minister told me in committee that he liked the two penguins so much, I thought: The penguins inspire me only in the form that I say in a bad and cold winter in Carinthia they could survive there too. But that's all it does. I think it would have been a failure if the Minister had been shown in the bathing pants on Lake Wörther or if the representatives of the state of Austria had confessed to the Austrian holiday. Dear friends, back to the seriousness: I think rethinking on vacation is also a question of education that starts with youth. I mean, there are big failures in schools, too, and there the Ministry of Education is invited to cooperate with the Ministry of Economics so that this free movement is again limited a little during winter holidays, and the Austrian students once again teach traditional winter sports and winter tourism that students learn to ski. It's not about the fact that in the last seven years, we've lost 100,000 students from home for winter tourism. – These are all guests of tomorrow, but they won’t be coming tomorrow. It is always nice to lay down on where you have strengths – spas and so on. And because Mrs. Drunk also mentioned science: We have wonderful investigations – but I don't know if the Minister knows. Plan groups from the Max Planck Institute have investigated people who have made vacations in alpine regions in Austria, who have made vacations in Mediterranean regions, and those who have made vacations in even hotter areas, in Abu Dhabi. And it has been found that the recovery value in Austria was the highest even if a certain temperature was not exceeded. As far as the Wörthersee is concerned: A study of Joanneum Research in Styria has shown that the pulse rate is very much reduced during swimming in freshwater and the recovery phase is particularly important. It's faster to recover. And at a time when people are so stressed anyway, it should be made clear that this “summer freshness” has just been something It was special, something that makes the Austrians return healthy from their holidays. I think that's where we have to sit. Once again to double tourism: I can imagine you're making a great summer region out of the winter region as far as sports are concerned. It will be a little more difficult if you want to make a seminar season from the lake region, where the fog stands in the autumn and winter, for example. But on this path we move. I am pleased that we can discuss tourism in Austria in a targeted way.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8465	The next item is Mrs Fürntrath's speech. 3 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8487	Madam President. Mr. Minister, who is coming in right now! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I have to say: It is immense what the Green Members have allowed themselves to do here in this House. [[Bravorufe at ÖVP]] Talking about sexual assaults in tourism is inconceivable! And, Mrs Moser, you say that the staff in tourism are being exploited, I think that is really unbearable, I have to say honestly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I have been an entrepreneur for 26 years now, and I have mainly employed ladies and apprentices in my company, and I have never had that at all! And do you know that more than a third of the companies are run in the gastronomy of women? – And now become You're not saying that these women in their farm are not making sure that this doesn't happen? - Well, I really think that's incredible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As we have already heard: Tourism is a very personal-intensive profession and a very personal-intensive industry. We have companies with more than 40 percent staff, and this of course also poses very, very many risks. Therefore, I think it is very important that we finally try to relieve the cost factor of people, because only then can we provide the corresponding service in tourism. Tourism is also an industry that trains many apprentices. We have conducted a survey in the Styria and found that we have a very high satisfaction with the apprentices, what their training is about, and we also have a high satisfaction with what their boss is going to do. I am particularly pleased about that. Especially the Styria is known as the training country of Austria – I even want to say: worldwide. When I think of Gleichenberg here: Gleichenberg, this small town, has united all the institutions in this small place – we have the country vocational school, we have the tourism school with various branches, we have the technical college. I think everything that is bad about tourism meets us, because tourism, as some previous speakers have said, is really a business card, and we contribute a lot to Austria's image. Another thing: Mrs Trunk said she thanked institutions such as the Chamber of Labour and so on. – I say here: I thank not only the tourism staff, I thank primarily the many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who contribute to the fact that we really are the tourism country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8559	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. You too want to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8580	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change forces us to go new ways in tourism: We must not only sit on skiing in winter and swimming and hiking holidays in summer, but we must offer other possibilities of compensation and relaxation available all year round. In addition to the classic offers, it is necessary to focus on new trends or already proven innovations, such as health tourism, spa and wellness holidays. One example of success is my state of Burgenland: It can be seen here that both the thermal regions and the natural parks are very well accepted. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Here – and this is also required in our request – the medical care facilities in terms of wellness and beauty centres are to be further developed and expanded. However, it is important that the population is included in all tourism projects: People in these regions must not feel overwhelmed and should identify with and benefit from regional development. Once again, our businesses have proven that they are flexible and adaptable to meet the needs of guests. You have to look at what guests want, and at the same time react flexibly. Eco-Tourism, ladies and gentlemen, attracts self-confident tourists. It preserves the environment and contributes to the fight against climate change. The creation of model regions is intended to increase the quality of small tourism companies, and cross-border projects, such as the Neusiedler See-Tourism, are also intended to reduce the burden on the environment. You take a holiday from the car and you can either use this facility on weekends and holidays with an experience that is part of the Austrian-Hungarian-Slovak parasol project, or use the Neusiedler See-Bus – an eco-mobile offer for leisure activities – to do this. The Neusiedler See region has therefore been selected as a model region, as it is an ecologically sensitive UNESCO World Heritage Site and also requires an environmentally friendly and climate-friendly approach to transport and infrastructure. A high environmental quality, ladies and gentlemen, is the best capital for our tourism, and the World Heritage Site Neusiedler See is an important image factor for tourism throughout Austria. – That is why we will, of course, be happy to agree to this request. To Mrs Moser: Dear Gabi, I would like to invite you to the model region Neusiedler See to show you this area – so you know what we're talking about. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8633	The next item is the speech by Mr Kainz. You too want to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8654	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Austria is tourism country number 1: All nine federal states offer a different offer – winter tourism, summer, leisure, urban tourism, cultural tourism –: There is no doubt that we can be proud of this. Our tourism country is characterized by its hospitality – a hospitality that is characterized by our companies, but especially by the employees. – Congratulations to the companies, but above all thank the employees who make a big contribution! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austria is characterised by its expertise in tourism; Austria has special features, is unique – from nature to history, to culture. The Numbers, Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, certainly speak for themselves: The per capita income in Austria is 1 511 € in the top field – we are world champions in this category. Switzerland is 1 197 € behind us. I am convinced that Austrian tourism must be sustainable, that it must be ecological and economic. And here the goal of forcing a year-round tourism is undoubtedly the right way. In tourism, ladies and gentlemen, we must set new trends, but we must also respond to changes. It is undoubtedly right to address climate change here, and the climate change protection which this Federal Government is also very forcefully pushing on is also reflected here. Tourism in Austria is a cross-sectional matter: The federal government, the federal states and the municipalities contribute a lot – invest, benefit, but organize a real offer here. The municipalities and the regions have a huge offer for our guests – be it day guests, but also guests who stay longer in the communities. My region – the district of Baden – undoubtedly offers a special offer: The spa town of Baden is a nocturnal master in Lower Austria, the Biosphere Park, the wine-tourism experience – wine – is a very large offer. But also Bruck an der Leitha, the Archaeological Park Carnuntum is something where guests are attracted from close and far away. I think, but also my own community – the Weinbau-Gemeinde Pfaffstätten – is an example of this. We are currently focusing on a very special project: We want to revitalize an honorable building, namely the Lilienfelder Hof, a Grangie, and also allow wine and adventure tourism. But I would particularly like to congratulate my colleague Hans Rädler, who, in his municipality of Erlach, which has been called “Bad Erlach” since yesterday, has set up a very special project with Therme Linsberg. – This will revive the region, which is living tourism. In this sense: Our tourism in Austria is all right!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8712	Next, Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8736	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Somehow it's already a special occasion today, as I mean: Today we are dealing with the first request made by the newly created Tourism Committee. Leisure and tourism have enjoyed a special appreciation since today – and that is a good thing. As a tourist country, Austria has a very special meaning. We are at the forefront of all EU countries in an internal comparison. It has already been mentioned today: 8 per cent of tourism contributes to gross domestic product. If the leisure industry is calculated, it is significant 17 to 18 percent. 170 000 people find work in this area. That means: Tourism policy is not only economic policy and location policy, it is also employment policy. In Austria, we have a huge tourist potential and associated with it, but also huge opportunities, ladies and gentlemen. And I just think we need to take advantage of these opportunities. Of course, it is also about thinking about new, future tools. Of course, I am thinking here of the whole area of new funding or of the rethinking of framework conditions. We've just seen what it means to break whole segments away. I would just like to mention the cable car industry that really had to suffer huge losses in the winter. That is why we need to address the impact of climate change. We simply need to find answers, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has already been discussed today about the creation of model regions. Dear Kathi Pepper: Yes, it is important that these model regions are incorporated into the work programme and are now really being addressed. It will not be easy in the future to implement all of this. I think we're going to have to take money, spend a lot of money, but it's necessary. If we all want Austria to remain at the forefront as a tourist country, then we must take this step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8775	Next, Mr Rädler. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8796	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It has already been a very positive response from our tourist speaker, Mr Hörl, to the establishment of a Committee on Tourism at the parliamentary level. I think it is an important tool to give place to the true importance of tourism. Let's take a look at the volume: 30 billion € is about the volume of revenue from tourism. In addition, 120 million nights and 30 million guests come to Austria each year. I think it is most important to highlight here those initiatives that are put forward at national and local level. The country of Lower Austria has already taken an initiative with the regional funding agency ecoplus 16 years ago, where, from the municipalities, numerous projects have been implemented positively across the regions up to the national level: The Archaeological Park Carnuntum has already been mentioned – up to tourism projects such as cycle routes, hiking trails and various key projects in the regions. However, this can only happen if the communities are involved: There are already 15 LEADER regions in Lower Austria, where citizens in 259 municipalities are willing to participate through their knowledge and to develop new projects in working groups, which are then promoted by this country agency and trigger important initiatives for the future and investment. 1 000 projects in 16 years with a funding volume of 420 million €, that is 1.3 billion € investment in the state of Lower Austria! For year-round tourism: Lower Austria is not the federal state where winter tourism is dominant, and I do not understand the attacks from the green camp, which shoot snow cannons there, against snow cannons. If I look at the district level with me, I mean: Under winter tourism, the district spokesman of the Greens probably understands cycling with the Lappenhaube, but with skiing we really have nothing on the hat and not on the hood! [[Abg. Sburny: Very funny! Incredible!]] So that's what we should not say bad things, but we should be positive about such projects that can be implemented if people stand behind them. And in our communities it is the citizens who are involved and who are positive for tourism. I am also very grateful – it has already been mentioned today – for those accents that our Environment Minister has introduced with the abandonment of long-distance travel. It is still preferable for me to introduce this idea of this thought-making movement, rather than the measure set in Vienna with the increase in the price of public transport by 14 percent. This cannot be a tourism accompanying measure, nor to where we are all talking about railway tourism. I believe that there would be a need for cooperation between all the forces in order to continue the success we have already achieved in the area of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8836	Next, Mr Zweytick. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8857	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! It was probably one of the most exciting or innovative contributions that have been made here today under the title of the tourism proposal, in addition to the important budget speech, which is also very important for the future of the country and therefore for tourism. It was very innovative contributions, as I was actually not used to them from the past. In other words, tourism is no longer a foreign word in Austria. People know each other, they're engaged on the road. In connection with climate change, the experts also say that there will be no more snow guns in 15 years or around 1,500 meters, because there will be no snow at all. In the long term, this also means that, of course, more people will focus on higher-level ski resorts, because skiing is simply a sport and thus an important instrument for people in their leisure time, but we will not bring all people to these heights and therefore also have to offer new alternatives in deeper regions. A recipe for success has been mentioned several times here, which is the area of wellness accommodation facilities. That tree, which will always have season, has also des- Half season because it's completely race-dependent. That is why it is because, of course, in many areas we always have to deal with the worst weather. When we talk about year-round tourism – say: Four-year tourism – reason. Bad weather is also in the wider sense climate change, ladies and gentlemen. It is also important here to support “smart” institutions by the federal government and the countries and to take up innovations that on the one hand, we secure this highest per capita rate of revenue for tourism in Europe and on the other hand do not believe in having to open the door and door for masses with all force, because mass tourism does not stand for quality tourism. There is less of a lot more here, also with regard to our nature. That, I think, is one of the highest treasures we have in Austria with the hospitable staff, the landscape and the cultural landscape in this country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8897	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e8918	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Year-round tourism: Do we really need a winter in which there is so little snow that we get there? – In recent years, there has always been winter, which had less snow, and which had more snow. There were also summers that rained, and those that were less raining. And now the big concept is: Year-round tourism. You know, if you make rapid shots now, then you either haven't been watching over the past few years, or the greens who have been preaching climate change since about 20 years ago, don't even listen to the importance of rethinking here. Tourism is one of the most important sectors we have. That is why, as an economic speaker, it is also so important for me to make a clear commitment to this issue. Tourism generates 17 percent of the gross domestic product and every fifth employee in Austria works directly or indirectly for tourism or tourism. A word about the Greens. If you talk about tourism workers and talk about them being exploited and working with too little pay, I wonder where Her speech remained when it came to the care debate. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There we had dumping prices of cheap jobs from Eastern Europe, where we speak of hourly wages of a euro and less. There's no word from you. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Oh yes!]] So much for equal opportunities for women in this area as far as care is concerned and the economy in tourism is concerned. [[Abg. Oils: Have you taken care of sometime? You have no idea!]] - Well! Still to my previous speakers on the part of the ÖVP. They address the wellness and short holidays that have been booming in recent years. Yes, thank God, because especially wellness holidays are booming in times when you need fillers – fillers for the gastronomy, as in November, October or spring. You know, when we're talking about wellness and health holidays, we're talking about short holidays. If I take the statement of your Minister for Agriculture Pröll, who wants to prescribe to all Austrians that they stay at home and possibly go on foot on holiday, then he says indirectly nothing but that of course all foreigners should stay where they are, because an aircraft landing in Austria does not cause less dirt than those who leave Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such statements by a Federal Minister are not only absurd, they are hardest counterproductive and harm tourism in every respect. Please, direct this to him if he's not here already, that he has such statements to fail in the future, or he should think before he speaks! That would be important in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Then I'll tell you something: Today, the Federal Minister for Finance has given a flashing speech here – he has repeatedly spoken of “both” double budgets, so obviously that is already done by the year 2010 because both double budgets, these are two double budgets, and that is four years – and there he has spoken of small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl.]] And he has said that it is essential and important to promote the width of the economy. If I look at the economic programme and also the budget programme in terms of economy, I have to say that small and medium-sized enterprises – and, ladies and gentlemen, 90 percent in tourism are small and medium-sized enterprises – are not at all taken into account! We still have additional labour costs, which are well above the EU average. The increase in health insurance contributions not only for workers but also for employers only increases this. The increase in mineral oil tax, which will bring 2 billion € to the Minister of Finance by the year 2010, is an additional burden not only for employers but, of course, for those who use tourism. What do you think, where these costs are then transferred or recalculated? Ladies and gentlemen, if you don't think anything better about tourism than you mentioned in your government programme, where you have exactly 16 lines of 168 pages left for it, then I see black for tourism in Austria. I hope that at least the opposition parties will work for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9005	As the last speaker in this debate, Mr Magistrate speaking. Hauser. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9026	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! I spoke again, because I have to correct Mr Obernosterer's statement here on the one hand. I have found that we support this request by the FPÖ because it is a delicate plant, because there is for the first time a Tourism Committee and we support this Tourism Committee, but we cannot accept this request in itself, because this request does not contain any concrete things except for declarations of intent, but we support it. [[Mr Rädler and Mr Themessl.]] Imagine – we now have 20 State Secretarys and Ministers – that we now have to go here and ask every State Secretary and every Minister about a request to make strategic considerations on how to make a year-round tourism. This is the responsibility of the Minister – and I have determined that. I have not found that the Minister is not thinking! I have found that with a Minister and a Secretary of State, I assume that he is in office, and this includes making strategic considerations. That is why, in our view, there really was no need to ask a minister to do so. If Mr Obernosterer has spoken here of keywords and said that the speaker's word should be called fewer words, I must give him the right. For example, I would point out in the light of my colleague, Mr Fürntrath: Look, Mrs. Colleague: For years, the ÖVP has called for a reduction in additional wage costs. They stand out and say that we have to reduce the additional wage costs in tourism. What are you doing in reality? . You will agree to the budget tomorrow, where an increase in social security contributions by 0.15% is already included. [[Abg. Grandruck: Well, well, well!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] That means you do exactly the opposite! So please, stay with your consistent demand for an additional wage reduction and make You are not exactly the opposite by continuing to burden tourism! This is inconsistency, which is dishonest, and this does not help at all in Sunday's speeches, if you are constantly talking about a reduction in the cost of wages, but here in the House is doing exactly the opposite. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The fact that there is also a lot to do in tourism has already been mentioned by my previous speaker. It is true that in the Government Declaration, tourism was half a page dedicated to it, and today I have listened very closely to Mr Vice-Chancellor's budget speech. And in this budget speech, which took almost one and a half hours, the word “Tourism” has not even been mentioned. That is to say, we still have a lot of work in the Tourism Committee and here in the High House, in order to achieve actions and activities and real improvements for tourism in addition to hot air. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9081	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 51 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 15.) [[14:16:56]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 146/A(E) by Mr Ridi Steibl, Mr Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues with regard to the implementation of the family policy measures provided for in the government programme, in particular the flexibility of the childcare allowance (50 d.a.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 70/A(E) by Mrs Sabine Mandak, Members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9148	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. That is why we are entering the debate. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Weinzinger with a time limit of 8 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9181	Madam President. Estimated ladies on the government bank! High house! Again, the childcare allowance. In the meantime, what you can say after several years of this model is: It has clearly failed in at least three key points. There has been a failure where women – for they are still the vast majority of those who receive the childcare allowance – will then find a return to the labour market. We know from numerous investigations – not even the old government could pass by – that the return for women has become much more difficult if they have received two and a half years of childcare allowance. And the tendency is to keep them out of work a little longer. We know that a second point has failed, namely to achieve greater partnership between parents in the care of their children in recent years. There is a statistically scarcely relevant increase in the rate of caregivers, child benefit fathers, which is not least due to the fact that, especially in the sectors where there is greater flexibility in moving income, namely in the case of self-employed or in the peasantry, disproportionately many fathers – the statistics after at least – take on childcare tasks, but at least in the case of child care benefits. In fact, significant effects towards greater partnership in childcare have not been achieved – quite the contrary, I would say. Thirdly, this has just taken care of some of the talk stuff in the last few days: A brilliant flop has succeeded in the implementation of the provisions relating to child care. To achieve such a bureaucratic chaos with a single legal measure is a certain “performance” of the black and blue-orange government, which I do not want to see repeatedly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Something so complicated to shape and then to create such a chaos in execution shows that the whole model is in reality unreal and almost hostile to life. I'm just mentioning the example of the earner's limit. Who can say exactly what the income will be on the cent, and whether you will be just below or above the limit? But above all: Why should a well-qualified academic who has a good income be allowed to work in addition to a child care relationship less than a less well-trained employee working somewhere? The limits of award apply equally to both. I think it is much fairer to delete this limit of merit in the current form and instead to think about whether it would be more sensible to link it with the reduction of working time if one wanted to stick to this model at all – and I will come to that. What we have now is a motion for a resolution which has a certain cheerful note. I mean, what do I think if the government parties in Parliament have to call on the government to implement what has been agreed in the government programme? – Make Are you doing this with everything in the government programme? - I don't take it. I have not yet received such a resolution from the Eurofighters. That is why I can only conclude that not everything contained in the government programme is equally serious, or that some people need a certain amount of emphasis, which you are trying to give with this motion for a resolution. That means that the government itself would not carry out the flexibility now, otherwise you would not have to ask them by resolution. Also striking is – and you have probably received as many letters of protest as I do – that you are putting this back on the long bench. [[Abg. Steibl: This formulation is also complicated!]] – Mrs Steibl, you will be able to speak immediately afterwards and then tell me everything from the speaker's desk! [[Abg. Steibl: I wanted to say that this is also complicated!]] – I doubt that it’s so complicated that you don’t understand. I think it was quite appropriate to the level of the house. [[Abg. Steibl: Imagination is also an education!]] A flexibilization will take place, but not for this day. Why not? I mean, that's not what would be so complicated that you need months of legal preparatory work. It is nothing that would be so expensive that the Minister of Finance must first save so that he can afford it. On the contrary, it is a silent saving effect with calculated. That is to say, in fact, you themselves lack the conviction about this mini-reform of child care money – and I look in particular at the ÖVP, which has already refused to do so. Not even the so-called freedom of choice between 18 and 36 months, as the Minister of Finance called it today in his budget speech, comes so easily through your hand to the government bank that you can do it once. I mean, Plants You're not the people – really! If you're flexibilizing it, you'll do it right away! Don't announce, make nails with heads! And the most reasonable would be: Just think about how to put a modern and contemporary model on the table. This concerns my colleague Sabine Mandak, who has worked out a few key points where we propose much further reforms. The first is – and that should actually be the simplest self-understanding –: We need a minimum level for all children's benefits, for karenz money, which protects against poverty. At least €600 – if not clear about it – should be. This is not at all the case at present; only if one no longer uses freedom of choice, but chooses the short version. Secondly, partnership should be really promoted. We propose to do so with a work-dependent karenz money, where the better-earned parent therefore has the greater economic incentive in the family, in fact, to use also karenz periods, and where families and in particular fathers could finally afford to stay at home, what many young fathers want today. [[Abg. Steibl: What about the whole housewives, students? What about them?]] And if we allow this to be accompanied by a reduction in the time of reference, it is cost-neutral as long as not more than 20 percent of the fathers use all their claims – that is, thumb times pi estimated about 20 percent. We're far away from that. This can be done loosely for the next 10, 15 years. And finally, a model where flexibility is actually lived and not just claimed as you do. What is the difference between being able to decide a little bit to shorten between 18 and 36 months when it comes to living conditions and childcare facilities, and a model where I say: Let's make a green karenz model, as we have suggested – we can also call it different! – where parents can choose whether they are in Karenz at the same time or not at the same time, part-time or all-time, where they can link the months of the relationship or use it all together in the shortest possible time!? – This is a decision of the parents we should not intervene in, but for whom we need legal framework conditions that you do not give them today. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, let me address another point which also concerns a current question: Why don't we finally get rid of the model that only biological parenting counts in childcare? Why should it not be possible for new life partners to take on the same care tasks as they do and thus also take care of care of children's or children's benefits? And why should this not also apply to homosexual couples that they take on this together as a beautiful task they want to face? In this sense: Think about whether you do not use the time you take for a reform anyway to make sense and present a modern karenz money model! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9275	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9296	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Weinzinger, if you think that our model is life-fine, then I say that the model of the Greens is non-life. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I would also like to give you the opportunity that the government programme of the coalition partners contains a number of important family policy projects, which will certainly be implemented during this legislative period or will be launched this year. I would like to address a little more to the request of the Green “Modern Model of Parent Care” and explain to you a few points why we do not agree with this model or reject this model. The principle of ‘each child is worth the same’ is not implemented with this model. It's important to us that every child is equal in value. And I'd like to give you another chance: You actually support the server operators much more with your request. I do not understand this, because it is actually not quite compatible with the approaches the Greens have. Or a close link between karenz, occupational exemption and cash benefits: The focus is therefore mainly on self-employed persons. I'm asking: Where are the students, the students and the farmers? Also with regard to pension considerations, many mothers and fathers would be worse off if they were made dependent on the amount of care. Currently, the calculation of child rearing times – real contribution times – is based on €1 350 per month. They also know that we have a novel on valorisation provisions, and that is now in review and should also be introduced. I would like to give you once again what our concerns are, which we have still set out with this motion for a resolution today. Our focus, of course, is on the compatibility of work and family. Yes, and the child care allowance with the flexibilization that is now in place is, of course, the focus. The current budget also includes €60 million more to implement these measures with this flexibility of 15 plus three and 30 plus six months. I believe that this is a good step – also towards re-entry! You have to know that we have been told over and over again that the childcare allowance is a way back to the stove. No, it is important to us to pay for family work, but also to see that women who are highly qualified and well trained by the bank can also go their way of working. We also need the supplement to the family allowance for the third child and, of course, the information: How can I accept these provisions under labour law? How can I proceed in this direction? A sentence for childcare: That is what I would like to say, yes, it is partly country-related. I would just like to point out the economic benefits of the childcare facilities that are impressive. I call numbers, also from Vienna. There is a study by the Vienna University of Economics, which says that per invested euro flows back € 1.3 or € 2 respectively. This is once a positive thing in Vienna, because as regards the costs of childcare, Vienna is not positive, but at least 11 300 full-time jobs are created by this – only as an example – in Vienna. So if you put this on a small community, it's good to know. A few more sentences on the permanent theme of recent times, on the amount of earnings and on the grant of child care: The cap is raised to €16 200. There is a 15 percent tolerance limit. The legal situation is requested in 2007. And with the invigorators of the innovative childcare allowance – hopefully with 1.1.2008 – everything should be clear, understandable and comprehensible for child care providers. We are against a complete abolition of the limit of trust, I am. We agree within the Government Party that a replacement-free abolition of the limit would be without any additional family policy effect and that it would not be for the benefit of the child of the youngest child. By the way, this also confirms the Chamber of Workers in one of their broadcasts. I would also like to point out that a reduction in working time is ultimately not understandable and controllable. I think Mrs Kdolsky is doing good work in this direction, is open, even in terms of what mothers and fathers need. Summary: We want to continue to make our family policy socially balanced, easily manageable, child-friendly and family-friendly!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9373	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rosenkranz. She wants to speak for 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9394	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! What was the intention of child care money, which was quite a free development? – It should ensure the care of the smallest and the small children, without any rules on the type of care. It should include both out-of-home care and family care. That is what we understand by freedom of choice, because it is quite clear: If you invest exclusively in childcare facilities, you have to be able to afford not to harvest part of your income and stay at home. So this is not an even promotion, and it is not the freedom of choice, because the economic pressure of many families, as we know, is that two incomes are absolutely necessary. This child care allowance has set itself the goal of granting freedom of choice for the second time. It also ended a decades-long disadvantage for those women who were not employed before the birth of their child, as we remember. Then: After all, it was only for those who had previously acquired working hours. However, the childcare allowance has been awarded to all mothers regardless of previous professional activity – and that is justifiable! What's going to happen? – Now should – and this is amazing, because the ÖVP has not seen this so far, but has always praised the childcare money as a milestone; by the way, we want to continue this way too! – the child care allowance is flexibilised. This is not what we think of the FPÖ as right. We want to continue the path that has begun. We can imagine – and that was always a free-for-all goal – that we should complete the freedom of choice by simply letting go of the limit of merit. People can decide for themselves, you don't have to control that. Everyone knows what he wants and can say to his child, and everyone knows how far this affects his own career. Let's say it quite honestly: It is not always about careers, but it is very often about a very simple and little attractive professional activity. In retail trade, for example, there can not always be talk of a career. So it's up to everyone to decide for themselves when it comes to: Do I stay at home or do I go back to work immediately? First of all, we believe that families must be able to decide for themselves. And second, we mean: If there is to be a further development, then probably in the direction that you first close the gap up to kindergarten maturity, that is, until the third year of life of the child, and then think in the direction of how to shape the time between kindergarten maturity and school entry. The use of the childcare allowance was overwhelming – you can see that too – and that was you, my dear ladies from the SPÖ and from the Greens, always a thorn in your eye. They didn't want to see that! They just don't want to recognize it, because it can't be what it's supposed to be – horribile dictu: It was, of course, the mothers! – so many families and so on and so many mothers who say: I'd like to use that! I like to dedicate myself to my child in his first years of life! They then held the usual discussion and said that this was a means of attracting women back to the herd. I claim and note: Women are not so stupid to be lured, they decide! They often decide with good reason, are not lured! And then also the word – I think you can't take it as seriously as you might have to take it; I think it's just an unmistakable thing – of the "babyballe", and I make it quite clear to us liberals: A child is not just an obstacle to employment, it does not just ask the question: How quickly can I put the child in other hands so that I can continue my career and pursue my career? – if it is!; how many men do by the way Really career?; this is always misrepresented – but to look after and train a child, especially in the first years of life, is an enormously demanding task; it is a value per se to do so. – This is our way, we want to follow it on! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am surprised, ladies – but there were also a few gentlemen from the ÖVP in the committee – that you have now taken up the story with the Barcelona target so completely unobtrusive. The Barcelona objective is to: 33 percent of young children must be able to be cared for in childcare facilities. This is the EU's objective, and we must recognise it. But we don't nearly do that, we're only 12 percent, and we have to go now. – I mean: We don't have to go there at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, the Barcelona objective is a follow-up paper according to the Lisbon objective – and these are economic papers! It may already be that one greatly appreciates the work force of well-trained, skilled, hard-working, and very social women, but can we also recognize that young women may have something even more important to do, namely to dedicate themselves to their little children? It's time for others to jump in for them. You can't need exactly the work force of these women, if you can actually direct them elsewhere, if they want to! We believe that the Barcelona objective – a legitimate wish of the economy; one can imagine that it would like it – cannot be decisive for childcare: where, how and what! Childcare must first and foremost be oriented to what is good for the child, what the child's well-being is! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This debate, which is generally held here, does not refer to it at all. You may have read in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” of Tuesday on the largest study on: How does the care – “foreign care” here, as it is – affect children when they come out of the house very early?, read. And there's nothing wrong with it: “Foreign care makes children more aggressive according to a study”! I do not want to say this right now, but the claim that professional care is always preferable is the question of educational institutions, and that the care given by one's own parents, through one's own mother, is, so to speak, the second and the worse, we do not see it at all! We think the opposite is the case. One argument that comes back again and again, of course, that is the question: What about the return of women? – I believe that as a flexible society, we need to make it possible for women not to be able to get and care for children, to be most confronted with the career peaks or the needs of the profession, but only when the children are out of the toil. We could take this into account: that we can do this! But also: The debate is not being held properly either. It is said again and again that child money would prevent mothers from returning to their profession. There is always being held, after a year and a half, only more so and so many have fallen into their profession. - Oh, sure! For a year and a half, the allowance was paid; the allowance is due to God for two and a half years. Of course, after a year and a half the majority have not returned. Why should they have? But it writes a study by the Chamber of Labour, i.e. a totally unwarranted paper, the volume of employment of the groups under study – i.e. karenz money and child money – shows clear trends of approach towards the end of the 39-month observation period, but ultimately all groups reach a level of 50 to 53 percent in the month 39. So it's not true what you're saying! After the given period, the re-entry rate in the karenzgeld model and in the childcare allowance is almost the same. Summary: We from the FPÖ mean: The child care allowance was a good investment, a good establishment, it was cleverly thought that we should not flexibilize it and therefore actually take it back, rather we should try to continue along this path, extend it to the amount of the payout and the length of the reference period and give up on the commitment limit.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9527	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. You'd like to talk for 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9549	Ladies and gentlemen! For me, it is already a very great relief that such sounds, as we now had to hear from Mrs Rosenkranz about childcare, are no longer relevant to the line of the new Federal Government, but that we set new goals here, including in regard to childcare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is consensus between the two government parties that there is a common effort to achieve the Barcelona objective. We agree on the plan to expand the provision of childcare facilities in the next few years. There is indeed a great need for follow-up in the European comparison. Then: The Barcelona target quoted before says nothing but that 33 percent of those under 3-year-olds should have the offer for extra-domestic childcare, and we only have such an offer in Austria for 12 percent of these children. Denmark, Sweden, Slovakia and Norway are already over 40 percent. I would also like to very strongly contradict the view that this would be to the harm of children. Also, I am glad that we hear new sounds from the Federal Government in this regard and that we see the childcare facilities as very important, even first educational institutions, to which our children have a right. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This has always been heard in the GDR!]] And that's why we're going to expand, improve and offer them more and more. But now we've got a babysitting allowance. – Yes, Mrs Weinzinger, in recent years we have often had debates on child care – I remember well – and we have had to hear again and again in recent years: No need for reform; first the evaluation on the table, and then first we talk about needs! If we now read in the newspapers what came out of the evaluation, we also understand why Mrs Ex-Federal Minister Haubner has kept this evaluation closed for so long. This was because the results of this own evaluation have demonstrated very, very great need for reform and action in children's money. In fact, these evaluation results show that in almost every of the goals set, a target failure has been achieved, so child money is not a great success story. Of course, no one refuses to use the money, but there is a great need for reform, for example – and I have arrived on the current subject – at the point where we have been discussing these for many years. It is no surprise that in recent years there has been a chaos produced, the surprise is only that with which purpose of this chaos has been produced. Over the last few years, we have had discussions again and again that those concerned at last need legal certainty and that there cannot be an arbitrary act of the Federal Minister and the subsequent Federal Minister, but nothing has happened. What is the surprise is the fact that this has actually happened in a very formal way by the former Minister of State, and I want to inform you now. In this case, the former Federal Minister of the Interior, in fact, points out to the employees of the Social Ministry at the time that surveys have to be carried out to verify the limit on child care and any recovery arrangements. Furthermore, according to the former Minister's instructions, no further steps should be taken to determine and exceed the income limit in the grant of childcare allowance. I do not think that many of the country's most important lawyers are talking about abuse of power. And the surprise that this has happened to the extent is great. We need to get in control of the chaos in the next few days. We need a fair solution that does not punish those who have adhered to the law. We need a legal solution that also creates legal certainty for those concerned. We must comply with the law, whether we like the regulation or not. We will change it and develop it further, but for the past time this law has passed, whether we like it or not. That is to say, we need to consider a fair grinding system and look for those who, with their commitment, are just over the border. The first must be: We need the numbers on the table, we need to know how many people they are and how much they really are with the commitment over the border. We then have to find a socially acceptable solution for those who, because they had to do more overtime or similar things, are slightly above the border and obviously have not simply earned too much money and have also collected child money, because for families with small incomes, it is now, even years later, an absolute amount of money, a terrible financial burden that they now have to take on unexpectedly. Of course, we need further solutions in the longer term, but the increase in the limit of merit and a solution that eliminates this chaos will once be the first important steps. Flexibility of child benefit is a next important step. We will vote against the Green Group's request today, because this proposal calls for much further measures, with which I partly agree, but others see much more differentiated. But I think we should now take this first step of flexibility. In my experience there is also a great interest in it. I am very glad that we agree with the competent minister that we want to provide a short observation period as short as possible to see if this offer of greater flexibility is accepted, and that if it is offered – what I am going to expect – we will take further steps.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9593	The next item is the speech by Mrs Haubner. You would like to speak for 7 minutes; the clock is set accordingly. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9615	Madam President. Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am very grateful for the fact that I have come to speak right now after colleague Kuntzl, because I am aware of the fact that chaos is being spoken of here in terms of child care, and also of misevaluations or, as Mrs Minister has said, grossly negligent action. I wonder if the government did not, before 2000 – my knowledge, it was a SPÖ-ÖVP government – which at that time granted a child allowance for the care allowance and never checked this child grant and never asked for it, did also act grossly negligently, or whether it was not measured by two measures! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: When the ÖVP is there, everything is always “best”!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I also object to the fact that it is claimed here that it has not been checked that it has not been recovered. – We have examined very well, namely individual cases, cases of hardness, and this is very prudent. That is exactly what I wanted to avoid, namely starting with recoveries, and then perhaps coming to cases where it would not be fair where there would have been hardships, and that is why we simply took advantage of this scope. That is why I am surprised when it says that the family compensation fund has been cleared. [[Abg. Steibl: Well, he's already cleared!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because the ÖVP cleared him out!]] Mrs Steibl, it was consensus in the last government that, as in the past, we no longer use FLAF to stop budget holes, but that we finance family benefits exclusively. Mr. Vice-Chanzler has also said today in his speech that the ÖVP is also proud – rightly proud – of what we have done together in family policy. But it costs money! But we've come to know that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That was consensus in the previous government, and I remember that in this government we had an ÖVP Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and that we also carried this thing together. – Please, let’s leave the church in the village with these things! Mr Weinzinger said that child care money failed. – On the other hand, I say: Childcare money has not failed, but it is the most important family policy impulse in recent years! We have introduced the childcare allowance with the aim of further combating poverty, especially in low-income families, in multi-child families, and creating real freedom of choice, for the first time also for those mothers and those fathers who choose to care for their children at home. Personally, it is important to me how the satisfaction of the parents and the families is. And a variety of studies show that the satisfaction of parents is a very large one, which is especially due to the duration and height of the child care allowance. We have thus initiated a paradigm change towards family-oriented, family-friendly society. Now, if there are two requests from the Committee on Family Affairs to vote today, I can say to my party, for the BZÖ, that we are very critical of these requests – critical in that there is a proposal for a flexibilization of the childcare allowance, which, in our opinion, does not ultimately break down barriers, but continues to pass. For me, the limit of merit is such a barrier – that is nothing new. The fact that these are to fall is a demand that I have repeatedly raised within the last coalition government. I believe that this flexible babysitting model is a half-hearted model, because one cannot decide to remove the limit of merit, but one only picks it up and writes again barriers and obstacles. Nor can we warm up for an option model, where it is planned that eventually those families will receive less money, which will benefit from the child care allowance less than the entire 36 or 30 months. There are at least €1 500 less, which can be worn in this option model. We cannot escape the Green Group's proposal for an income-dependent childcare allowance, because then again we have the inequality between the families, between those who have a higher income, and those who may have only one income, where the wife or the husband remains at home, in order to care for the children. I think we have actually overcome these obstacles in recent years, and we should not get back here, so to speak. We from BZÖ say about child care money as a universal family benefit for the so important first three years of life of the child, and especially when it comes to strengthening the multi-child families. We from the BZÖ say about a child care allowance, which in the implementation is less red tape, less administration, and above all, this money that can be saved here – and I am thinking again of the speech of the Minister of Finance, who said today: Less administration, less bureaucracy, more money in the economy! – to give the families or to let the families benefit. We from the BZÖ say about the further development of the childcare allowance, but with a real option, namely that of either working at home, working at home and caring for the children themselves, or being extra-domestic. And that means to us from BZÖ: No limit of trust, for this is, ladies and gentlemen, the best solution for the families! And for the families, the best solution is just good enough, not the second best solution. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would therefore like to make the following request to the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment 146/A(E): [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9735	Mrs Haubner's request has been properly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9811	Mrs. Kdolsky has now been reported next word. For information only: We must interrupt this debate at 3 p.m. to deal with a question. Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9838	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear High House! My goal is to respect families in their diverse forms – and that is, I believe, a very essential factor: namely, as a classical family, but also, of course, as a single parent or patchwork family, an adopted family and whatever else there is – and to create framework conditions for them. This is the task of politics: to create and protect genuine freedom of choice and, of course, to keep the child's well-being in the foreground! Mrs Rosenkranz, as a medical doctor, psychotherapist and with this specialist, I can guarantee you that the children will not be harmed if they are also cared for in a non-domestic area for hours from now on. It only depends on what size these groups are and in what quality the care is. That is the essential factor! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] If a specialist minister stands here, you have to expect her to provide you with technical information. [[New condolences with representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Superiority!]] The fact is: One of the key points in our question is also the compatibility of family and profession, which is an essential standard, and therefore the flexibility of child care money is an essential factor in which we believe that we have created new structures here, which also bring this compatibility to the fore. I would like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs. Federal Minister, other than Mr Haubner, for I also believe that child care money is a success model and that it is an essential factor in the family sector. Mrs Weinzinger, we have already begun the legislative preparatory work, it is just like this: Lawmaking is now as long as it lasts, and we will be so far ahead with all the structures up to 1.1.2008 that this law can also enter into force. As a result of the fact that this is a major issue of discussion in the last few days, I would like to give only the following information: In principle, the current legal situation is such that the child care allowance, which was exceeded, can be recovered to the full due to the current legal situation. In the event of unforeseen and only minor exceedance – which is about 15 percent – a recovery can be prevented. But since we – and this is our problem now – do not have any data material since 2003 due to the direction of the former Federal Minister's head, we will now carry out random reviews, and if we see that we are within the 15 percent, we will of course refrain from recoveries. We only have to pay attention to one thing: On the one hand, we do not want to be socially unbearable. On the other hand, of course, all those who have adhered to the border rightly demand that the rule of law take place here and that the laws be complied with accordingly. I will communicate very clearly the new borders and I will also point out at a press conference next week that for all those who are now applying it will be monetized accordingly from 2007 onward, in all cases, and we will say very clearly that anyone who is wrong in seeking and receiving this money must also expect a recovery. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] I think that's something I just don't appeal to – after I've been 11 since. Jander has been praised – whether something has happened before, what I don't or I already review, but I'm just saying: The law in force is applicable, and as an Austrian citizen I stick to it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] One of the essential points I would like to mention briefly is the further development of childcare. Mrs Rosenkranz, it is not only about crimping places or outside places, it is also very much about day-mothers. Only: We also need action there because there are still no Austrian quality criteria. And I think it's high time to take a look at this. We just have to look at all the possibilities – whether the mother of the day is, whether that happens in his own family or whether it is in the corresponding extramural area. But, of course, we also need to create places, especially when we pay attention to what I said before that, the smaller the children, the smaller the groups must be and the better the quality of the caregivers. And that's an essential factor. We are also currently in the process of raising the extent to which the Austrians need the corresponding childcare centres in their home areas or in their working areas. I believe that this is an essential point, because I am of course convinced that the countries and communities have appropriate responsibilities there. But I also believe that...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9899	Mrs. Federal Minister, I have to interrupt you because it's 15:00. You can continue after the two negotiating points, or you can speak the final sentence. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9914	Two words, then it's enough. [[Mr Bösch and Mr Graf.]] That's quite right, two words you'll still stand! The fact is that we have a situation that according to all possibilities takes advantage of our situation here...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9952	Mrs. Federal Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt you, it's 15:00. [[Congratulations for Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky at ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] I am now interrupting the negotiations on points 10 and 11 of the agenda. [[15:02:06]] Short debate on the response 223/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e9988	We arrive at the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology with the order number 223/AB The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker speaking for reasons of 10 minutes. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not last more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mrs Dr Gabriela Moserals to open the debate. The speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10026	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs Minister for Women's Affairs, I would like to invite you to participate here too, because transport policy often goes beyond women and often puts women's concerns in the back. [[Federal Minister Bures: I'm coming back!]] We want a women's policy to be reflected in transport policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – But the invitation is unfortunately not perceived. Again: Mr. Minister! Thankfully, you have answered a question that is in itself addressed to your predecessor, to the Minister other than Gorbach. You have, I admit, a relatively heavy inheritance. Only you are new, and unfortunately old customs once again, Minister, and therefore I am now asking you to take a position on this question and, above all, to carry out the answer a little closer than you have provided me with it in writing. Well, old customs: It has often occurred that requests have not been correctly answered that much remained open that no answers have been given. Now we have a similar problem again, however, I am already self-critical and I say that it has been a personal question to Mr Gorbach. Only: What he left behind is really scandalous, because he has not distanced himself from all his so-called deeds in this jubilee brochure – I have printed it out to you – to order 28 000 € of the tax money, and that directly from his resort, without involving any professional officials, a jubilee, where the agency, if you look after it, has a homepage on which it is no longer visible, which is just calmed. [[the speaker holds up a brochure]] Please, you don't know what happened to money. Mr Minister, I would ask you to look at this even more closely, to feel this matter even closer to the tooth. Please, let's also go into the contents of this jubilee brochure, because it now concerns what you have taken over to inheritance, and since, I fear, old customs will continue, old customs will be carried on again. Mr Gorbach has been awarded this – and thankfully my colleague Herbs in the Committee on the Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions has always been very widely criticised and very wide-ranging – that he has promised an incredible amount, has taken up many projects verbally, has not taken care of the financing, has operated infrastructure gigantomy, has signed contracts that are financially in no way secured. And now, Minister Faymann, I don't trust my eyes. Almost all the projects in this jubilee brochure, which have so-called uncovered checks, I find in your project list for the so-called Road and Rail Framework Plan. Old customs, new people – new people, old customs! That is why, Mr Herb, we remain very specific in your opinion. Thankfully, you have issued a kind of extra report on the report from the Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors on the matter of general transport plan, management, PPP and truck toll of the ASFINAG et cetera – SPÖ quality work. Can I quote from that? Mr Minister, keep this in mind! The government has stated that 1.2 billion is required on average every year, while on average €2.47 billion is required to implement the planned rail projects from the Gorbach era. – Mr Faymann, just these rail projects you have maintained, you also want to implement. Mr. Herb, at the time, criticised this, because: “This results in the dramatic consequence that the equity ratio” – I am still quoting – “will fall from 35 % to 3 % of the ÖBB-Bau-AG by 2010 – under an equity ratio of 8 %, a company is considered to be at risk of insolvency.” This was written by the responsible speaker in the SPÖ club at the time, and this was also represented by the responsible speaker in the Court of Auditors Committee, the colleague of herbs. And you, Mr Minister, as I said, under the title: new people, old customs, presented us on Monday a infrastructure framework package, which is more realistic in the figures – of course, more extensive, because now we don't have 2.47 billion € like at the time of Gorbach, now we have 3.5 billion € in the future, starting from 2010, after the new calculation, according to the new figures. And just as Gorbach remains completely guilty to us the answer to the question, how is that covered, how is it paid, except from the budget. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where else should it be paid?]] Say: The debt policy of 2010/11/12 will have to be used more or less in order to finance all that you now have in mind. I am very much in favour, Minister, of you finally giving priority to the railway. I'm grateful for that. Only my problem is, Minister: Why don't we build the Selzthal loop, for example? The Selzthal loop costs 1, 2, 3 million, saves 10 minutes: a significantly efficient investment. Mr Minister, why do we not improve the Pottendorfer line or, for example, about Grammatneusidl? This would bring forward the southern railway stock and the capacity requirements on the south railway towards Wiener Neustadt by a quantum leap. [[Abg. Kainz: It's coming!]] It's moved backwards! Investments that would immediately benefit the donor are shifted backwards, and investments that benefit the construction industry are placed forward. [[Abg. Kainz: That's not true, is it?]] Mr Minister, this is Gorbach’s policy, which your colleague has also rejected, which has always criticized the SPÖ club. But you showed us that again. I can give you one more example. You have... – I have discussed the subject of tourism, Mr. Cot. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kainz.]] That's right, now that's very good for you. We discussed the tourism report. Tourism country Salzburg. And now I'm looking at the line from Salzburg to the south. There is the pass Lueg, a narrow spot, at risk of avalanche, in jeopardy, which is repeatedly blocked because it is an old route stock, tunnels there, which are narrower than the old Semmering tunnels. And then I'll look into your announcement package. And what's in there? – No pass Lueg, it will not be rehabilitated. The bridges there are broken, which sometimes need to be picked up again and again in need: the avalanches, the stone blows, the bottlenecks. This is even the local transport area, commuting area. The people who live in the south of Salzburg or then towards St. Johann and commut to Salzburg are dependent on this route every day. This is an axis line that we also need in some cases in long-distance transport. After Innsbruck trains are also directed in this direction. Nothing's going to be done there! But you invest where Gorbach signed contracts, where there would have been a political opportunity to make a slight time correction. This is at the expense of the daily quality of the rail, the quality of everyday public transport, the offer to the commuters, the offer to the people who now want to change in view of climate history, given your increase in mineral oil tax, given that driving is becoming increasingly expensive, Mr. Klubobmann Cap. People are quite willing to use public transport. Just what happens? – In some cases, the capacity is not sufficient and prices are rising. I do not want to take a big side step towards Vienna price conditions. And for climate protection in the sense of a sustainable culture of mobility, too little is done for your part. Once again, I could make a small trip towards Mr. Vice-Chancellor's Finance Minister Molterer's budget speech, because the big construction projects are being sold large and large: the most insane, comprehensive infrastructure investment that has ever – yes, I also cycle – adopted a government in a period of time. [[Inter-call]] Just, I say every time, this package is not financed, and I would like to have it financed to you, even some tunnels. Take up our proposal, including the Chamber of Workers: Introduce truck toll across the globe, which brings half a billion a year! There's the money on the street. You know, the truck uses it a lot more. But what do I find in this new budget description? On page 9 in this budget report, Mr Minister, let this be broken on the tongue! –: The mineral oil tax will be slightly increased in mid-2007 and the car tax for trucks in return will be reduced there. That's really great! There you want the shift from the road to the rail, and then you lower the truck tax. And the whole thing is financed as a compensation story by the increased mineral oil tax on the passenger car. I don't know, Minister. This is an old transport policy. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Maybe I've crossed time? [[President Mag. Prammer: Yes, closing!]] Yeah, I'd love to. I could still talk for hours, but there will be another possibility. Final sentence: ...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10149	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over! I can't agree with you any more, you're already a lot over time. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, who left the speaker's desk. Dr. Moser.]] Mr Faymann has reported on the submission of an opinion. I would point out once again that the speaking time should not last longer than 10 minutes. Please, Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10180	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, I would like to say a few words about two things. Firstly, this brochure, which was sent directly by the Cabinet, was also commissioned by the Cabinet. That's where the internal revision tries to understand the processes. But there is no response from the internal revision to me yet, otherwise I would have answered you in more detail. The second area is that of the framework plan. In fact, the preparatory work since the General Transport Plan and the many frameworks or announcements also includes a lot of useful projects. It is not a question of saying that all the projects that have been developed with the federal states over the last 20 years are pointless. On the contrary, there are very many very necessary north-south connections of the road, bypasses that are necessary, safety measures such as the construction of tunnels, additional second tunnel tubes and, above all, very many railway projects that are urgently needed, such as the extension of the west railway line between Vienna and Salzburg or the particularly priority extension of the South Railway. So it was not my job to present a framework plan, which somehow starts at zero, but I have tried to review it in the sum, in the number and from the costs, much too many projects in the space, with totally unrealistic construction times, with totally unrealistic cost estimates on a realistic cost estimate, on realistic construction beginnings and on the sensibleness of the individual projects and to bring them into a time frame in which funding is also planned. Because a project without funding doesn't make much sense. I do not know if you are always deliberately saying “announcing” package, but that is the difference whether something can be found in the budget or not. And the projects in the framework plan have been presented by the Minister of Finance with me, because, for this, the budget resources – I will come in the way of the budgetary resources to be foreseen – are also prepared by the government, together with the Minister of Finance, for that purpose. Let me say to the projects: For projects that we have moved for factual reasons, because it is not possible by means of administrative procedures at all, but also partially deleted, because they are not meaningful in the area of road construction, you will find on a list very many red points that show that we have, above all, saved in this area or by later building it into a time track that is realistic. In contrast to the railways. The railway sector is green because we have started projects that are necessary financially with a lot of effort and with a lot of discussions with the federal states in such a way that they can be financed, and some have even preferred them if I take as an example the area of St. Pölten or a preference of the plan extension of the western route between Ybbs and Amstetten and four tracks of expansion. So there is such a clear priority for the rail, which is easy to calculate by 2020, namely a ratio of 2 : 1 of investments for rail, so that public broadcasts on this issue, in which greens say that there is no use for environmental protection, in fact in my view incomprehensible and found their climax in the release of the Burgenish Greens, where only railway projects are being pursued at all, because there is an urgent need for a re-examination and therefore the railway projects in the coming years are the only ones that can be found in the budget at all during this legislative period in relation to new start-ups. So the railway projects have been given priority, as I mean, right across Austria. Of course, there would be many additional desirable measures, but more than €11 billion, of which more than €6.5 billion for the rail in this legislative period, more than €20 billion of investment in the rail by 2020, is a huge programme. If you now say that you could invest in an additional way and put in additional measures, then that may be right, but there has never been this investment level. And the federal states have given a very positive opinion on this, saying that it is preferable for them to know that something starts later, but it is financed for it than that there is always any date in the room that can never be observed. That is why we have said that the degree of implementation is 90 percent. Why at 90 percent and not at 100? – Because, of course, it is not possible to estimate exactly the day when environmental impact assessments are started. But a 90 percent realization when you look at the general traffic plan or other frameworks of the past, is already a dream goal that I hope we will achieve. In any case, we have made a very real effort to do so. I therefore believe that everything you have said in favour of rail depends on these large infrastructure investments in the competition for air transport. If, for example, in the area of the corridor from Gdansk to Bologna, the Italians have been expanding, but we do not yet and one can calculate the expansion plans, then one would not need about four hours from Vienna to Venice, and at present one is driving seven, or only two hours from Vienna to Klagenfurt. This is the best competitiveness against air transport, in which it is Not only is it about taxing kerosene, for which I am very much, but of course also creating alternatives, just as it is necessary to create alternatives for trucks, to bring as many goods as possible in our country, from the road as possible. I therefore believe that this framework plan, which, with great support also my friends in the government, with the representatives of the federal states, has been drawn up together, for example, with those responsible in the financial field, fulfils this very objective, which you always highlight, namely, to make an important contribution to environmental protection and thus to climate protection.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10246	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mr. Dr. Herber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10270	Madam President. In the beginning, Mr. Federal Minister, one compliment: They are personally engaged in the parliamentary debate. This immediately distinguishes you fundamentally from your predecessor. In principle, it has been possible to represent it in Parliament. And that's where I want to make you a compliment at the beginning. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Moser, with full respect for Your commitment, you have set the course a little wrong. There is not a general debate on transport issues on the agenda, it is about the jubilee of the Vice-Cancellor of his time, and it is worth looking at here a little more as to how Mr Gorbach's policy actually looked out. He was the sad highlight of a whole series of blue and orange political staff. Who, for example, remembers Schmid or Mrs Forstinger or Mr Reichhold – I would recommend that the competent bodies look at themselves, Mr. Graf, what Mr. Reichhold does at all at ASFINAG – or then Mr. Gorbach? It is a pleasure that the people have responded correctly and have set the course in the national elections. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Fewer votes!]] And now the oranges, Mr. Westenthaler, are a dazzling little bit. And last but not least, the former vice-chanc Gorbach is also responsible for this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What did he do – let us remember together, Mr. Westenthaler! –: with full joy the 160 km/h irration, then this blue light affair from Gorbach or how he wanted to create a transrapid from Vienna to Innsbruck. The ad flood is known to us or the embarrassing worship visits in the USA at Schwarzenegger. [[Abg. Dolinschek: It was always just a standstill!]] Let us talk, Mr Dolinschek, about moral achievements. Since, one has to imagine, the Minister of Transport at that time has a positively balanced part of the ÖBB to a private businessman and then sits in the nest made. So this is really a political-moral low and, in fact, a repulsive self-service mentality. But, as has been said, the voters have shown a corresponding reaction to this. Then – and this is really the best – Gorbach once again gets deeply into the pockets of the population, the taxpayer and has taken some revenge on the voters in his injured vanity and has this pamphlet of the Ra-che by 29 000 € with 75 pages of high gloss and no less than 48 portraits us all. The teacher from Burgenland, a certain sweater, has done something similar. But that's just such a facet in the whole thing. And these are just a few dissuasive examples of the BZÖ. There are also the Affaire Westenthaler and so on. Another really grotesque facet in the whole: Kärntner Landeshauptmann Jörg Haider, the then self-proclaimed Saubermann, has also passed an order for the farewell of this Mr Gorbach. So that's really a sad game, Mr. Westenthaler. The Gorbach then finally said he was trying to leave traces. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] So before I come across some unappetizing comparisons that really push up, let's say they are traces of political and moral devastation. But now there are other traces, the direction is changed, and the population is freed from such people, and that is good.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10341	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Kapeller. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10363	Madam President. Estimated Minister! High house! Above all, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! In general, your question is whether tax money is handled with care, even here in this brochure is of course justified and can also be understood. But your indignation in the special case is in my opinion inconvenient, and I would also like to highlight it a little bit. I believe that you, especially the Greens, are entitled to always and everywhere transparency on the one hand and information from the citizens on the other. You are entitled to hear from you, and I agree with you that democracy can and must also cost money. They criticise so much this information brochure by former Vice-Cancellor Gorbach and their costs. But how do you actually keep it yourself with the handling of taxpayers when it comes to your own performance? – In the last GP there were 19 special sessions, of course the democratic right to claim them, many of them also called up from you, and the purpose was often or often your own presentation in the media. How do you keep it with the investigation committees that are currently running? Here too, you are hardly aware of a cost factor and the working time of parliament staff is equally limited. And all this for your own presentation and performance. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] But also where you have government responsibility, namely in my home country Upper Austria, the Greens naturally take tax money into their hands to report on government work. Landesrat Anschober, who is doing quite good government work in Upper Austria, smiles at us in many high-gloss magazines, in many brochures and daily from daily newspapers. And these are also paid ads that are financed by means of taxes. In fact, a green councillor does nothing less bad than what you are now doing to the former vice chancellor. This is because it is a matter of general policy that all politicians should have the same right: Do good and talk about it! From this point of view, your indignation in this matter is artificial and insidious, in my opinion.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10411	Mrs Zwerschitz is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10432	High house! Madam President. I find it extremely interesting when the ÖVP goes out to defend Mr Gorbach – no, Mr Kapeller, excuse me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't need to know him!]] Yeah, right, right. If that is the same for all politicians, then I think it is an exciting bill to add the €28,000 cost of the brochure to 183 Members. Tax payers would certainly be very grateful for the fact that Mr. Kapeller believes that all those who have worked anything should have this possibility. Then we take all the ministries in addition, that will be a round sum, with which we could really do something in public transport. Mr Verkehrsminister would probably be very pleased about the money if he could receive it in addition to his budget. Yes, it's true, on Monday we heard, the track is upgraded. But this is also urgently necessary, because up to that time it has rather extended a miserable existence. Many ministers have often "excellently" themselves by investing less in their area, and to see less that there is something going on or doing something, and to apply more for what they would have liked to have done – so I would formulate it once.I come from the south, I come from Mürzzuschlag. I would like to talk today about how the South is currently in the field of transport policy and that unfortunately these €6.5 billion you have in your infrastructure package will not help us at all because we have some other needs and we do not feel that what the South would need is really contained in your package. I am one of the few Members, I assume – I do not know, at least I have not met many – who are very often on the move. I find the following interesting: On Friday I got chocolate again. The ÖBB has recently led a chocolate-express as a consolation pavement for the fact that the yarns are miserable, as a consolation pavement for getting a tape-screen suffering on a regular trip, as a consolation pavement for the quick train being brightly lit, even if it is driving at night – where “in the night” is perhaps a bit of an auxiliary expression, because so late it is no longer driving. [[Call to the ÖVP: My God!]] Of course, we have a night's rest, not for the railways employed, but for those who would like to take the train. – So if you drive on the train and you're going to be bad, then the very poor employees, namely the train attendants, can distribute chocolate as a consolation pavement, apparently under the motto: Better get on as a good train! – Pendlers are annoyed at this. So one of the possibilities to do something fast in terms of infrastructure, in relation to relatively little money, would be to finally do something about the material. – Of course, you can go here instead and, as it seems to be just now, just put everything in buildings. We're building, we're messing up all this,...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10469	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to this: We are in an interview! You haven't put the request in your mouth so far. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's good!]] [[Call at BZÖ:... took chocolate in the mouth!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But she has an orange blouse on!]] You should go over to the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10522	I have already responded to the €28,000 cost of the brochure – in view of the fact that the money should simply have been used better, in view of the fact that we unfortunately cannot be pleased that very often brochures should have been presented, which should have been achieved, but which unfortunately has not been achieved. I can only join my colleague, who has already said that this approach, as Mr Gorbach has chosen, is not in order and that we will not need these high-gloss photographs in the future in transport policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10549	Next, Mr Vilimsky. Also 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10570	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have such a large number of viewers, especially young people. This shows that the interest in politics is growing again – that is something good and a bit enjoyable! In fact, the debate on this question reply has an esoteric facet, because we are discussing the political posthumous activity of a person who would not be worth discussing in detail. And in terms of content, there would no longer be any debate here, unless there was an blatant waste of tax money here and today: 28 000 € for 75 high gloss pages with over 45 photos to cheer your own person represent a scandal of the special class! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To understand this brochure in order to understand this €28,000 you need a little – listen, and come out if you have something to say! – understand Mr Gorbach's egomanic psychogram. [[Interoperability call at the BZÖ]] At the time, it was a joke in the ministry, especially journalists who made fun of the fact that several golden brass signs had to be overcome, which led one to the high-quality vice-chancellor's office. [[Abg. Broukal: “To Mr. Vice-Chancellor” stood...!]] You didn't shove back there to buy 1 600 € Christmas trees and around 500 € the jewelry for it. He has fried over €4,000 in taxi fees in two months next to his van and so on and so on. But the real scandal – which has already been held by the SPÖ – is the fact that Mr Gorbach, in his active time as Minister, has led the sale of the bottom sea shipping industry and thus enabled himself to get his own nest in the private sector through his political activity. This is also a scandal of the special class! Thank you. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Jarolim.]] And if I try to put myself a little further into Mr. Gorbach's psychogram to look at what threatens Mr. Klaus, I say: It can be expensive! Perhaps he is negotiating that one of the ships is renamed “MS Hubert” there – the whole thing might still be with a daylight to document how great his attempt to drive with light a day is. 160 nautical knots don't really go, but so it's interesting: If you change a nautical node to km/h, this is about in ratio 1 : 8, and there we are again exactly the size that the BZÖ outside Carinthia has reached, i.e. 1.8. However, ladies and gentlemen, it is not only Gorbach that we should be talking about and not just talking about it. [[Call the ÖVP:... an academy with two presidents!]] He's done good too. For example, he has had an incredibly large women's rate in his office! They were very beautiful women all the way. He even brought Miss Vorarlberg into his cabin! And you know what he did? One of his first measures was: He has lifted the ban on his predecessor Forstinger, who has forbidden women from wearing stubble shoes and wearing mini skirts. [[Abg. May. Muttons: What's that?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What does that mean now?]] So, let's get this humorous story a little aside and look at the brochure that Mr Gorbach took from taxpayers at €28,000. – The same method, it is also the case with Mr Schweitzer, who has also produced 75 pages, I think, of a bit less photos than Mr Gorbach – all at the end of her political activity, where it was clear that these rulers will no longer be active in politics. This is a scandal of the special class, and it is also a chain of political indifferences by the BZÖ. I only remember about 400 000 euros being used from the Social Ministry's resources to advertise the party. That was a broad subject of criticism. And now I'm at the SPÖ: You rightly criticized this. - All right. I'm just wondering: What's going on now? Are we going to the agenda? Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go. . I would expect at least one to try to settle here and recover these funds from this obvious misuse of tax money for the Republic. Now, in the whole Republic, €28,000 is not necessarily a sum to be used for road construction projects, but it could be symbolically demanded back, and one could devote it to a social purpose. That's what I expect from the SPÖ. You have criticized a lot, you have promised a lot – my call to you is: Do what you promised! Do what you said! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10662	Next, Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10698	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky, as regards the handling of taxpayers' money, I must say: Take a look at your own series! You don't know: Are there 20 Members in the club or are there 21? Are there two presidents or are there three? [[Abg. Vilimsky: We are more than seven! More than seven!]] Or: Is there two academies or is there only one? – Probably there are three! The question of how to deal with taxpayers here is a problem. The partyobmann is not present at the meeting today, but is on holiday – and funds for it. Where are we going? What about the taxpayers? – I wouldn’t have said that otherwise, but if you’re doing so unfairly, you have to let that happen. And what about a service car, a touareg with a ten-cylinder of your party keeper? This is an essential more than that of the Vice-Cancellor! – Only to make it clear once. The Greens have actually learned nothing from the past, I have to say. Although Mrs Colleague has a dazzling orange blouse – she could be ours – she has said something about traffic, about the budget, but actually little about the question debate that has been started by the Greens. ==References== Janen has been asked this question – Deputy Chancellor Gorbach was still in office – on the 11th. The new Federal Government was praised by January, and that was already almost possible. I understand, of course, that the Green Group may now be excited about this reply to the question, but what should the Federal Minister reply if he is not involved in the matter if the department does not submit any information but has done all the work of Mr Vice-Chancellor? [[Abg. Oils: Yes, hello! Is that a problem?]] There's not much coming out. The brochures, Mr Oellinger, are, in fact, an activity report by Mr Vice-Chancellor, and that will probably be legitimate. [[Abg. Oho!]] [[Abg. Ollinger: Who asked?]] - Let's look everywhere: That's what everyone does! There are positive things that have been brought forward, for example in the field of research or in the whole innovation offensive, which has now been fully taken over! Mr Federal Minister, I think that is all right, because you have not, in principle, cut off anything at all in the rail sector, you are continuing everything; it has been done well in this area. – The road is not quite that way, but especially with the rail. We do not have any comparison, ladies and gentlemen, and with you from the Socialist Group for a long time. If you look at what you used to call the transport ministers, whether it's a strike, whether it's a climate, or it's one – well, what happened there? So we keep this comparison loose with such a brochure! We don't need to put our light under the casket! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If I compare these publications, I just need to look at the new Minister of Social Affairs. Look Go to the homepage of the Ministry of Social Affairs! At first, the logo has been changed to red. We have been constantly criticized because we use a little orange – and that was the first thing the new Social Minister has done! The next thing is that he has a diary on the homepage: whether he has had headaches, whether he has slept badly and so on. - I'm sorry! Well, have the honor! What kind of self-representation is that? - A whore! A whore! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So that you don't get too short: It should also be true that this brochure is somehow also a reminder, Minister of State. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Marizzi and Dr. Herb.]] You have experience enough in this area, you were a residential councillor in Vienna, you have also produced brochures, in the “NEWS” twelve pages of jubilee brochures from you. – Well, what is it? It's all legitimate that you sell it somehow, it's good that it's coming out and that it's going on. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Sigi, what do you have for an activity report? How does your report look like?]] But the greens were just not able to learn. In the past, false reports have often been made, and mass in the “Kurier”. Whether it was reports about fees, whether they were about costs for Mr. Vice-Chancellor's stay abroad, they were all sued by Mr. Gorbach, and all these proceedings were then won by Mr. Vice-Chancellor Gorbach! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Oil: What?]] Yeah, that's it! And when I look at that – it's not that long ago: In December, a corrective position was required by the Green Group in Vorarlberg. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true at all!]] Do you want me to read them to you, Mr. Oillinger? At that time, a certain claim of you was the favor of the Silvretta Nova, and then there was a withdrawal from your group, from the Greens in Vorarlberg, in which it was said: “We have now been able to convince ourselves that these claims are incorrect and withdraw them with the expression of regret. – The Greens, the Landesorganisation Vorarlberg.” And your chairman, Dr. Eva Glawischnig, the current third president and your vice-president, has also made a correct statement – on 9 December, that is, last December – that was: On 20 May 2005 I spread the claim in a press conference that Hubert Gorbach, as a former councillor of the Vorarlberg state government, had unlawfully favoured Silvretta Nova Bergbahnen AG by systematically overcoming the negative opinions. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10841	Mr Dolinschek, your speaking time is over! – I have now ringed out very consistently on everyone. [[Abg. Dolinschek: (continuing the speaker's desk without a microphone) I'm coming to the end. – “I was able to convince myself that the claims were incorrect, and withdraw them!”]] [[In the case of BZÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Dolinschek.]] Deputies! If you don't take the opportunity after a final sentence, I'll have to leave you the half set. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[15:44:16]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10884	We are now entering another short debate. This concerns the request made by Mr Bucher, the Financial Committee for Reporting on Amendment No 34/A by Mr Scheibner, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law which repeals the Heritage and Gift Tax Act 1955. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons of reason. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretarys, State Secretarys should not last more than 10 minutes. The word will first be given to the applicant. I'll give it to him with this. – Mr Bucher, you are speaking. 10 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10924	Madam President. Mr Faymann, I am pleased that you are also attending our brief debate, although it is not immediately Your place of business is concerned. Ladies and gentlemen! We have tried this brief debate to highlight a subject that has been discussed many times over the last few weeks, due to a knowledge of the Constitutional Court. It concerns the abolition of inheritance and gift tax. This knowledge has rightly been done so, it corresponds to the assessment and expectation of many experts and experts in this matter, and it is a knowledge that is most contemporary. And our group, the BZÖ, has already used several times in the past for the elimination, for the abolition of inheritance and gift tax – as in the case of the ÖVP, which has also joined our argumentation in the pre-election campaign, for very good reasons and good considerations that are understandable – a tax that has no place in a modern rule of law, in a modern state in a future-oriented tax legislation. It is in this Constitutional Court knowledge that there is an imbalance in taxation of inheritances and gifts. We know that, in the event of a death, successions come to a train, gifts at lifetimes, and there is a different assessment of how this tax should be applied. For example, in the case of capital assets, in the case of savings deposits, in the case of equity investments, in the case of shares et cetera, Kest is to be used as final taxation. In the case of foundation capital – by the way, a relic from SPÖ times: Federal Minister for Finance Lacina has used the foundation's law as an instrument for the so-called super-richs in the 1990s – the rule is that if you place assets in a foundation for a certain amount of money for a period of a hundred years, these are taxed at a one-off rate of 5 percent. And we have the case that in the case of properties, i.e. in the case of non-movable assets, the inheritance and gift tax is fully borne – except in the case of business transfers, there is an exemption of € 365 000. This imbalance has also led the Constitutional Court to ask the Federal Government or the legislator to make a repair, because, above all, the assessment, the basis of assessment for this tax is a highly uncertain one, does not give legal certainty and is also a complex one and one that causes enormous effort. We therefore have the case in Austria that in 29 percent of the inheritance and gift cases mainly the middle class is heavily affected. It's about small assets being passed on. The big assets and holdings are always in a foundation – this is also useful because foundations are inconsistencies, because they are also the best in the sense of inheritance. And this sharp disparity between real estate and assets leads to tax revenue in the year that accounts for about 132 million euros. This is converted to total government tax revenue of 0.3 percent. So it's a classic bagatell tax. We from the BZÖ have always expressed our support for the fact that we do not need the tax on luggage – we are talking about the advertising tax, the credit fee, the company tax – in which the tax income is relatively high in terms of administrative costs, and which is mainly due to the public authorities. And therefore, bagatell taxes are not up-to-date and should also be considered throughout the entire complex of the tax system. It is expected that a number of farm transfers will take place over the next ten years. It is assumed that by changing generations per year about 10,000 businesses will be transferred to their successors – 10,000 companies that would be heavily affected if they were subject to inheritance or gift tax. If we now take as an assumption what was thought of by the SPÖ, namely the inheritance of the assets over the time value, then this would be a massive threat to the middle class, because we are talking about agriculture, as we are also talking about tourism companies that pass on a large asset to their legal successors, to the heirs – that would also be a threat to existence for many business successors. I would like to consider the effect that this will cause if we already burden the successors with such a large tax burden that not only reduces equity, but also reduces the motivation to build a business. What motivation do I have when I know that my legal successors, my children, can no longer afford the succession of the company? What motivation do I have to build a plant? That is why we firmly believe that it would be much more sensible to abolish the inheritance and gift tax, to the young, subsequent generations, to the heirs of the farms not a full backpack to hang their shoulders, but to make it easier for them to become self-employed, to create jobs, to ensure growth and employment in our country – that is also important and right for Austria's economic location. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are talking about 10,000 companies that change owners, and we are talking about 440 000 employees in Austria who are affected by this business and legal succession. - That's what I'm supposed You are also concerned, ladies and gentlemen, by the SPÖ, which you are always acting as prominent representatives of the workforce: 440 000 people employed by the small and medium-sized enterprises are not very few! This should also help you to consider the extent to which these 132 million €, who are walking in the tax bags, are justified at all. By the way, the EU recognises that the inheritance and gift tax is an absurd tax, already very far advanced. It no longer exists in Italy, Sweden, Slovenia and Cyprus, and other European countries also want to exempt themselves from this gift tax and inheritance tax. This legal uncertainty, which currently exists – you know that the Constitutional Court has imposed on us to make a decision to amend the law by the middle of next year – is of course implicit in the fact that no gift and inheritance contracts will be concluded here by the next year at all. This means that legal certainty must now be a front-end goal for us, so that we can make a regulation so that we can make it unenforceable for people who want to continue selling or inheriting assets to provide a legal basis so that they can do so. That is why we are making a request for a deadline – we are building on the support of the ÖVP, which has already reached very far our goal on the issue of inheritance and gift tax – and I hope that you will give your consent to our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10972	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Krainer came to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e10997	Madam President. High house! We have recently had the first reading on this request. At the SPÖ's basic position, there has been little change in this regard: that we have already taken action before the judgment in favour of reforming the inheritance and gift tax, with generous allowances, that there should not be any inheritance tax for an average inheritance, even if a family house or a dwelling. We have also expressly said that the inheritance tax must not be unnecessaryly difficult or even prevent business handovers, and that we are also willing to see exactly – simply as far as the practice is concerned – how we can improve the law. Mr Bucher has already mentioned that, compared to the previous allowances, there is already a relatively generous amount of, I think, 365 000 € or the like, wherever we are willing to talk about it: Is it enough or not? But, of course, we also have the principle that large millions of inheritances can indeed share a small part of this great happiness they have with society. – And that has essentially changed nothing. The judgment itself, Mr Bucher, is, of course, a little different than you present it here. It is not true, for example, that in the case of property and immovable assets the tax is fully charged – that is the criticism of the Constitutional Court: that it is not fully committed, but merely because of fictitious values or values that these properties had 30, 40 years ago. And what he is mounting is that two plots are sometimes taxed independently of each other, although their true value today is quite different. In terms of content, the Constitutional Court has said that the inheritance tax is absolutely constitutional! He said that the system, such as properties, which is the one-value system, is not equal, and that is what he raises, and technically he has suspended it on this crime. – That’s a certain difference. In the days following this judgment, all the experts – also very close to the ÖVP experts – have called for a closer look at this and for a follow-up and a repair. Unfortunately, this has not been the case with everyone. In this respect, it is likely to be assumed today that the inheritance tax will expire – except for our coalition partner, there is a great process of thinking which I do not see yet. To one of the arguments against the inheritance tax, namely, the money would have been taxed almost already, it is said: It has already been taxed every money we have invested – and therefore the next one who gets it must pay tax anyway! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to tax it until there's nothing left, right?]] And it's the same thing with the inheritance: The inheritance has never paid anything for it, paying any tax for it – because that is an income, an increase in wealth for him, and the person concerned has of course never taxed it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You want to tax it until there's nothing left!]] That's the system! Especially exciting is the definition of ‘medium class’. This is a tax which affects the middle class in particular, it is always said. There's always the question: How do I defi-near the middle class? If, of course, I define the middle class by checking out the richest heir and the poorest heir and then saying that everything between them is the middle class, then that may be true. The figures are as follows: Only the four inheritances with the highest inheritance tax volume last year accounted for 25 percent of the total income – 25 percent only four inheritances! Four pieces – 25 percent! The top 5 percent have come up for 55 percent of the inheritance tax! – There you can, please, not talk about the middle class! We are talking here about inheritances where the inheritance tax alone accounts for €3,4,5 million – the tax, not the inherited assets! [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling:... “Eigentum ist Theft”!]] Just the tax! – So, what about middle class? That's just a question of how I define middle class. [[Abg. Morak: Just tell us what you want!]] We will have to continue the discussion in June anyway due to the gift tax knowledge, where I certainly hope that there will be a little more reason, if one also notices what is going on here. And you will simply have to ask yourself in the long term the question of the real contribution that people make to our community if, in particular, there is more and more the possibility for these people to stop paying the tax they now bear. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: “Eigentum is theft”!]] Then, of course, in the long run, there is no longer any contribution from this group, and the question arises as to how to regulate it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11107	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. Five minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11129	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Krainer, what do the rich or what do the rich contribute to this? If we assume that 2,555 000 people in Austria do not pay tax, then a fraction of taxpayers pay the bulk in the tax pot. Of course, rich people pay the 50 percent peak tax rate, which is still there, and so you don't have to complain at all. But it's not about earning money, it's about when someone bought it when someone created it, then he didn't only pay income tax or wage tax for it, but then, of course, he also paid turnover tax, and what I know is that he could do what he did to pass on to the family members, to the children and so on. We have already – that is not so long ago – been standing here at the first reading, the arguments have remained the same. Mr Krainer, that is quite clear. But this is not just about the inheritances, it is about the inheritance and gift tax law. I think we should first of all wait for what the Constitutional Court says in the matter of gift tax, because I think this is about something else. As far as the donation tax is concerned, the foundations, the grants for a foundation, and this is already a matter which a SPÖ Finance Minister, namely Mr Lacina, introduced at the time. We have seen that it is quite a good model, which also provides an incentive for someone to say, I would like to invest my money in Austria. So you can really say a lot of positive about this. I think we should be really careful here that on the one hand we do not make the foundations unattractive. But, of course, we must not let the foundations get out of the entrance tax. You have to consider that, of course. Among the four cases which have accounted for 55 percent of the inheritance tax: Mr Krainer, if we have four cases with such a tax attack every year in 62 400 cases of inheritance... – that is why we do not agree today. You have not said so, but I know that you do not agree with the deadline proposal either because there are a lot of points we need to talk about here. Of course, the ÖVP is in favour of abolishing the inheritance tax and also the gift tax, but of course we still need to highlight key points here, we still need to ask experts about how they see some point. This is, for example, the basic income tax equivalent in the case of inheritance and gift tax. What's going on with that? I have already said that when we had the first reading on this issue, we are in favour of a great solution in the course of the tax reform. The Constitutional Court has now come before us. Of course, there will be a withdrawal; the Council of Ministers also took place on 14 November. It was decided to do so on 1 March. I just think we should discuss this widely with experts. We should address all the possibilities and all the points that are important in this context. I do not think it is possible to treat the inheritance tax extra and to say that we are going to get rid of it now, but I really think we should wait for what the Constitutional Court of Justice has to say to the donation tax. I am still of the opinion – as I said earlier – that this is a real double taxation in the country. I find the inheritance tax generally problematic. – In the gift tax you can think about it, because uncontrolled and unrecorded donations can also lead to abuse. That is why we need to discuss this issue with experts. 95 percent of cases take place in the family association, in the area of small incomes and the middle class, and I therefore believe that we should continue to be here for the abolition or for the expiry of the inheritance tax, but of course not without discussion and not with a rapid shooting method. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11174	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11195	Madam President. High house! This proposal will be accepted by the Greens from democratic policy considerations, but in terms of content we can accept it – Mr Scheibner, you are already laughing! – of course not agree. You know. The Greens are now the only party to work for this inheritance and gift tax in Austria. If I have heard two previous speakers today from the SPÖ, namely Mr Kaipel and Mr Kai Jan Krainer, I ask myself very seriously: How's the SPÖ? On the one hand, I hear a confession to inheritance and gift tax, but on the other hand I experience a Mr. Gusenbauer, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who, a few days after the judgment on inheritance tax has become known, said: What's going on, run out! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] What is the word now? What word does weight have? That the SPÖ or the SPÖ in the Federal Government? There seems to be a split SPÖ here. Why does inheritance and gift tax make sense? An inheritance and gift tax therefore makes sense because a balanced tax system, a fair tax system needs such a tax. Today, Austria is a final asset tax light, which is not a secret. In Austria, however, we do not have a genius to invest in high-tax incomes and consumption. There are high wage taxes, and there is a turnover tax in the order of 20 percent. For example, if we were to increase wealth taxes in this country, to an extent that we can obtain it through a pre-adjustment of unit values to transport values, we would gain scope for reducing the burden on labour. That would be something of which not only few in this country have something, but many in that country have something. Because the abolition of inheritance tax and the gift tax actually brings only a few rich people in this country. Kai Jan Krainer has already mentioned it: the four inheritances of last year, which make up a quarter of the inheritance tax. Here, it is obvious that the middle class is being pushed forward in order to ensure a relief for millions of heirs in this country. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A tax will be abolished, which will continue to benefit the beneficiary assets already parked in the Foundation today, if a further step towards the abolition of the gift tax will be taken. And there is no doubt that the Constitutional Court will, with similar arguments, also tip the gift tax. But there can be no mention of a burden on the middle class. If we take the 60 000 inheritance tax cases and look at the lowest seventh of them, about 40 000 cases, we see that these 40 000 or 41 000 cases pay only on average 181 € per inheritance. And in many cases, the inheritance tax is probably confused with the significantly higher cost of registration into the basic book and for the notaries who make juicy fees for the settlement of inheritance procedures. As wrong as the medium-sized argument is, however, also the double taxation argument. For if you say that the inheritance tax is a double taxation, then this is simply not the case, the inheritance is an unprofitable income. I would perhaps like to accept statements on this unprofitable income from Bill Gates and other billionaires if they have said, on the occasion of a debate in the USA, to abolish or then reduce the inheritance tax: It would be anti-performance and anti-innovation if one had no inheritance tax. They want to favour millions of heirs with the abolition of inheritance tax in this country. – It is also not a bagatell tax! A bagatell tax is quite different. Then why did the government partners argue about the study contributions? That's a similar scale. We still have the study contributions today. Why have they not been abolished?, I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government. Why? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We also need the gift tax because it is important for the maintenance of tax morality. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] The Gift tax is an important tax to supplement income taxation. – I am coming to the conclusion, Madam President. It is precisely for these reasons that I have mentioned that I urge the Federal Government to reform the inheritance and gift tax in the direction that the unit values are given to the basic values and that by generous amounts the house builders...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11289	Deputies! Your speaking time is over. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. May. Rossmann.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11319	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am a little surprised that, after we delivered the first reading on this subject on 30.1., we are already having a similar debate again, namely content, because I believed at that time that we are totally in agreement on inheritance tax and gift tax. I was also of the opinion that the Council of Ministers decided that things were off the table and that the inheritance tax would definitely end, by July next year at the latest. Unfortunately, I now have to realize that things are turning around again, and that seems very funny to me, and I believe that the population is going to be over the haxl g’haut. In the end, the ÖVP has said that we insist that the inheritance tax expires. The SPÖ was against it at the beginning, but it seems to have been convinced by the coalition partner and also refrained from it. At any rate, German Chancellor Gusenbauer, as we have just heard, has expressed it in this way. I think the population has been very pleased that a tax will finally be abolished. And I would like to contradict Mr Rossmann here: Of course, it is the middle class that is particularly affected! But there's a saying, that's, Don't be too early! That's what it looks like right now. As also mentioned in press reports, the budget for 2007 and 2008 includes a total of € 132 million in approaches: Income from the inheritance tax. That doesn't happen to me completely. I said first of all, I believe that here the population of the Haxl g’haut, because I believe that there has been a bad game with the population, by relinquishing the inheritance tax, is going ahead and then decided to increase the mineral oil tax which is a multiple of what the inheritance tax would have cost, namely 440 million more because of the increase in petrol and diesel fuels. I think that's a game you shouldn't drive with the population. Once you have an opinion, you should stay with it. I would definitely like to write this to the main book of the great coalition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I therefore fully support with my colleagues what Mr Bucher of the BZÖ has said, but at the same time I would say that the BZÖ was in the last government and could have been able to ensure that the inheritance tax had already been abolished in the last legislative period. So the abolition of inheritance tax under your government's responsibility, you have unfortunately failed from the BZÖ of God. We also believe that if the Constitutional Court has already tipped the inheritance tax and its expiry is programmed, then the people who inherit in the near future – including the gift tax, if they know the same – should not be asked for a checkout, but the law only exists on the paper and ultimately runs out. Those who inherit from now on until July of next year still have to pay the tax fully, and that is certainly an injustice. For this reason, we have recently tabled, on 22 March, a motion for a resolution calling for the inheritance tax - and this also applies to the gift tax, if that is decided so far - to be effective in the 7th century. ==References====External links== Finally: I support this proposal by the BZÖ. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11370	Mr Scheibner has now spoken. Five minutes, too. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11392	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Rastaur, it is true that in the one and a half years or two of the sole government participation, the BZÖ has not succeeded in this abolition. In the five years before, where it was still the FPÖ, we also fought – I believe, together at that time – for the abolition of this inheritance tax. We didn't succeed, okay. But after all, in the final phase of this coalition, we have brought to the Minister of Finance Grasser, who said a year ago, that it is not in question to abolish this tax, so far as the election campaign is concerned, that he has said that this tax belongs away. And together with the Constitutional Court, it has succeeded in tipping this unjust tax. Only – therefore today also this deadline request –: I don't think that's all right – I understand it's about any compromises in the coalition – that it's justified to say now that 2008 is the end of this tax anyway. – I ask you: What's up there? That's really unfair. It may be possible to delay the gift, and it is obvious that the inheritance is not possible. Until then, many, many Austrians will have to pay this tax unjustly. Do all of them now have to go to the Constitutional Court to get rid of this tax? This cannot be in the sense of a rule of law. That is why this tax is actively abolished – and immediately abolished! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I would like to ask you, above all, from the Austrian People's Party, who has also opted for the abolition of this tax, to agree that we must not wait one and a half years in committee and here in plenary, until this is over, but actively abolish this tax. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I understand: They do not hold the right to self-determination as much as their ideological principles do. I can understand that only these ideological principles are not ours, and not ours, that money, once or several times, if you want to pass on or inherit it yourself, will be exhausted once again. If you say ownership is theft, it should be everybody's business, but we see that we keep drawing it off again and again, then you support such a line. But we say, no, the state should only take what it needs to do to ensure the social system, the infrastructure to ensure the security of the citizens – but not every time a little something is available, if someone has worked out a little bit, has a little bit of savings, the wealth, as small as it is, with all the hardness. And then you always come with the cue: Yes, the millions of heirs! You know exactly, the millions of heirs have already parked the money in the Lacina Foundations, and there is no inheritance tax at all. It really affects the middle class, even the little ones, because there are no limits. It is also unfair to say that I can afford it cheaper and give it to my children and relatives. But again: Where's my right to self-determination? Maybe I don't have any children at all, and I want to inherit someone else for a good purpose, someone who might have done something good to me. If you want to do so, you will find the full hardness of the percentages of expenditure on this asset. This is precisely what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen, and therefore, from your ideological point of view, I do not at all understand from the sense of justice why we can turn against this abolition of the tax. Mr Rossmann then comes from the Greens and advocates an increase in the values of unity. – It is even interesting: The Greens as the opposition party act as defenders and defenders of a tax policy as high as possible. That's really interesting. But what would that mean, the increase... [[Abg. Sburny: For example, that we can finance the study fees!]] Do you know what that would mean, especially for the students, the increase of unit values to traffic values? This would cost every tenant the rent, even for the students in the student apartments. Mrs Colleague, you know very well that this is being covered. We've already discussed that x-time. This does not burden the millions of heirs, but every tenant, every owner of a property, every farmer who has a property, burden you with this requirement to increase the unit values to the traffic values. [[Abg. Sburny: That's a total nonsense!]] So I really don't know how to support such a demand. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Against this background, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: Voices You must submit this request for a deadline! I am now saying from a democratic point of view that I would like to thank the Greens for coming here, even though they are of a different opinion. And I hope that we will bring together a majority here for a rule of law to immediately abolish the inheritance and gift tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11459	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Members Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, to the Financial Committee for reporting on Amendment 34/A by Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner and Mr Colleagues. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. [[16:21:17]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11498	I will resume the negotiations on points 10 and 11 of the agenda. Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler has now been mentioned. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11522	Madam President. High house! I shall now continue with Mr Ridi Steibl's request, Mag. Andrea Kuntzl, colleagues with regard to the implementation of the family policy measures provided for in the Government Programme, in particular the flexibility of the childcare allowance. I think we are going back together a little bit further to further the compatibility of family and profession. As an ÖVP, it is important to enable parents to have real freedom of choice. I emphasize, parents, because the issue of child care is not just about women, no, but it must be a common concern of men and women, that is, of the family, and if we do, we are already a very big piece further. Freedom of choice means supporting parents in their individual life choices and helping where it is necessary and useful. In my opinion, however, I also believe that a common effort must be made to ensure a more child-friendly climate in our society and to be ever more actively involved in it. How necessary this is shows a brief view of the current birth rates. According to Eurostat, the EU Statistical Office, there are currently fewer children in Austria than in the EU average. Thus, the birth rate in Austria was 1.4 percent in 2005 and 1.52 percent in the EU average. Only in Poland, it was the worst with 1.24 percent. In order to ensure the long-term preservation of the population in the industrialized countries, we would need a birth rate of about 2.1 percent. I think the problem of why the situation is so is complex. We have already discussed a lot about it. It is now necessary, together, to break through this trend in the long and medium term, giving young people the courage to become a child again. I therefore feel that it is necessary and important to give all necessary support, no matter what path man or woman decides on. There must be no either or no stigmatization in good and bad mothers, parents – keyword Rabenmutter or Heimchen am Herd, keyword Career wife et cetera. We must try to make the return to working life, whenever it is chosen, easy for everyone and compatible with child care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are required and have the task of creating the framework conditions for the most diverse forms of family and life, such as the necessary childcare facilities. At this point, I would also like to add specifically that it is necessary to expand the daily mother's network in Austria and here to ensure a uniform training standard and social security for these women, but also men who choose to do so. And what is especially important to me is to work intensively in the economy lobbying for the compatibility of family and profession. As a local politician, I know how important these needs are and how important this issue is outside. No mayor would be elected again if he not take these problems seriously from parents and cannot offer effective solutions here. Another comment: I also think that this topic is a very personal, a very sensitive one, but also a wonderful one. We must not always talk about finances, problems and difficulties, or see the small ones exclusively as future taxpayers and pensioners. Having children is, in my opinion, a privilege, a personal enrichment, a happiness that always makes me aware of every smile of my daughter. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] To enable as many parents as possible to have a carefree parenting, we need to act constantly. We have already set family political milestones in the last legislative period, with the introduction of child benefit, with family hospice, the right to parental leave or with the improvement of the billing of child care periods for the pension. With this proposal, we are consistently continuing this already taken path for the benefit of our families. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Of course, I would like to make further points, such as the tax deductibility of child care costs or the creation of tax incentives for family-friendly businesses, but a good path has been taken. I am very pleased about this, and I can ask you all to support this request. We will not give our consent to the alternative request of the Greens. My colleague Ridi Steiblja has already given a detailed opinion on this. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for the dedicated work in her department. Thanks a lot!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11616	Mr Oellinger. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11638	Madam President. Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister Kdolsky, I wish you well in terms of health. It was obviously not easy for you in the Family Committee. Good luck! I also wish you in your section a great deal of success, because I have little reason to disagree with your remarks, but also with the statement made by my predecessor, Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The first time! There's no such thing as that!]] But – of course, the But is – it is not about Mrs. Colleague that we should encourage young people to take part in children. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: How the Amen in prayer!]] That's what they don't really need. They all know the studies that show how much young people want to have children, how high their children's desire has been developed – and how much these people fail in reality. And we should talk about this, not about somehow caring for the child's desire and making it brave. That's not missing for young people! The reality, the substructure, ladies and gentlemen,... – So, Mr Morak, the question: [[Abg. Morak: Do you have children?]] Do you have children? is one of the stupidest questions you can ask on this subject! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If it calms you: Yes, I have children. But I would have thought this question was absolutely unnecessary from your side, because I believe that regardless of whether someone has children or not, he can speak on this subject. – Well, have we explained this, Mr. Morak? [[Abg. Morak: I just wanted to know!]] The point is not the lack of courage, but: What causes young people to miss out on children? What causes young women to move their children’s desire back up to 30, 35 or 40 years? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Up to 66!]] These are the crucial questions, and you should think about them – and not make intermediate calls that actually have very little to do with the subject, except to try to sidetrack it. That's an exciting question. Is it not possible to deal with the circumstances, with ever more uncertain living conditions for young people they would have to cope with, regardless of whether they want to or not? Could it not be that the young people want to have a little more security of life somewhere, so that they can get involved in children? Look You're looking at the realities of young people's life, how it looks today! – A precarious relationship between work and work! And that's where you ask of the people: Have courage, bring children into the world, just put the children where they are going, it's going to go somehow! – So responsible, ladies and gentlemen, young people are thanks to God for considering this too; at least most. There is a need for policy, Mr Morak. One cannot demand from people, especially young people, an ever-increasing degree of flexibility, nor can one - as the Federal Chancellor has done - demand an ever-increasing mobility, even more mobility from young people, and say that two or three hours of mobility per job and per day are too few, but it takes four or five hours, even that must be demanded by people. Think about what this means in the consequence! Should these people move around with their families, should they leave the families there? Do you know, Mr Morak, how the labour reality looks, for example, by Burgenish counterparts commuting three hours in the morning to the “Billa” and three hours from the “Billa” back to Burgenland? And that's what it says: It's a lack of courage, it's the people that need to become even more mobile!? - No! It's the circumstances, and we need to think about them. We also need to think – I am on another subject – about child care money. Mrs Federal Minister, I share almost all your remarks, but if you and my predecessor say that this is a success story, that is a milestone, then, please, let me have a small opposition: Of course, no one will have anything against it if, instead of previously, there is no financial performance now. Yes, it was granted to him and her, but let's also measure the child care allowance in terms of the goals. The aim was: It should be easy to achieve a simple performance, it should be perfectly safe, it should promote father participation, promote the compatibility of work and family and re-entry. Mrs. Federal Minister, is it a simple achievement? If I read the report to your ministry, I have to say: No, I'm sure not! It is administratively so complicated because your predecessors have consumed everything that is only too digested. The child care allowance in the administration has been attached to the local health insurance fund. If it had been connected to the financial office, some shears would have been saved. The women or the men who use the childcare allowance say: It's so complicated, I don't understand the rules! The advisory bodies are overwhelmed, overflowed. - And that's where you say a success story? – One does not get along with the information of those concerned. – That's where you say a success story? - Please don't! What do you say? You still have: It promotes the return of women. – As we now know, more than 50 percent of women do not make the return after the end of the child care period. They say it promotes paternal participation. – Do you know what the study says? And here I am looking at you, Mr Grillitsch, because this is, of course, a particular problem in the agricultural sector. The study notes that although men are involved in the financial context, it is expected that certain groups in particular are engaged in their usual activities. Caring continue to do the women, cashing when it is possible to do the men. This also leads to the topic of “permanence limit. ” I understand the scepticism of those who say: We cannot simply lift the limit of merit, because of course it means complications!, but I do not understand one, ladies and gentlemen: How can it be that a predecessor of the Federal Minister of the Regional Health Fund gives unlawfully an instruction in which the Federal Minister says: You don't need to administer anything at all, you don't need to raise how many are above the limit of merit, or you can cash it!Unknown term type: "%s".? We wait because we know – and this is the way it is told – that there is a five-year maturity limit for the collection in connection with the earner's limit. That's what I'm asking myself: Do we see how an ex-, for my sake, an ex-Bedesian may give illegal instructions? Is that possible, Mr Dolinschek? [[Abg. Dolinschek: Yes!]] Yes, it is possible because the BZÖ has obviously become accustomed to working in the illegal area, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the point, Mrs Federal Minister, where you said today: Perhaps the act of my predecessor was negligent. – I would like to say to you: “Vulnerable” is a mild term; in my opinion, that was not negligent, but it was a conscious violation of the law of the Federal Minister a. D. Herbert Haupt, and this must have consequences.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11758	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann; 3 minutes of welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11779	Madam President. Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I too can give my previous speaker, Mr Oellinger, a number of points, in particular on one point: If you need courage to choose children, then something really goes wrong! What people need is safety so that they don't have to put up all their courage to say to the child. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The government programme I was allowed to negotiate for the SPÖ contains a wide range of improvements, and many of these are long-standing measures that are suitable for correcting the mismanagements of recent years. So I certainly wouldn't talk about success story in the area. The aim is to reconcile work and family, for both parents. Compatibility between work and family is not an exclusive issue of women; it should be a men's theme to the same extent as it is a women's theme. Overall, however, it is a social-political mission which goes to all the forces of the state, and with the flexibilization of child money, an essential step of policy towards the fulfilment of this mission is taken. This mission to promote the compatibility of work and family, but it is also particularly important for the economy. It can not only be that families always adapt to the needs of the economy, but also the economy, the working world, must adapt to the needs of the families. And I would ask you to take this into account in the assessment of the limit of commitment, Mrs Rosenkranz and also Mrs Haubner. In contrast to Scandinavian countries, we still observe the phenomenon that after the birth of a child mothers massively reduce or give up their work and the fathers expand their professional commitment. The traditional role distribution – father is the same feeder, mother is the same caregiver – has not been overcome by us for a long time. That means not only creating the legal framework – as is now the case in a first step – but also making awareness-raising measures absolutely necessary. That is why I am glad that the Minister for Gender Equality is here today too. However, the present proposal also contains orders to the Minister for Family Affairs and Youth to take the youth policy measures as quickly as possible. Children's rights should be strengthened, while anchoring in the Constitution as part of the re-codification of the Constitution is already on track. The Constitutional Group at the Federal Chancellor's Office is working intensively on this. It is planned to anchor children's and young people's rights as fundamental rights in the Constitution and, of course, to ensure effective protection of fundamental rights. The rights are quickly written – it is crucial that these rights are also enforceable. This should be done with great care in order not to produce empty phrases, of which there are already enough. A major task will be – and this is also contained in the request – to ensure a meaningful reform and harmonisation of the protection of young people. The current situation is absolutely dissatisfying. Many acts are not regulated at all in the field of youth protection; others are insufficient; most of them are completely fragmented, so that the young people have no guidance at all. In the government programme, Mrs Minister, you will find a wealth of tasks to improve the lives of children and young people. I wish the ministers much strength and success in implementing this ambitious programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11830	Next item is the speech by Mrs Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein; 6 minutes' welcome speech time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11852	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Kdolsky has rightly said today that the childcare allowance is a success model. That's how we see it. I'd even go one step further: It was the greatest family-political achievement ever in the Second Republic. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] However, if we now hear from this new red-black government that flexibility is supposed to be such a great thing, I tell you: This is a step backwards, a step backwards into the period before 2000, a step backwards into the old great coalition. We have always demanded from the FPÖ that the limit of pay should fall. Unfortunately, at that time we did not succeed, already at that time the ÖVP has laid down its non-social manuscript here. If Mrs. Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler makes himself here today and says: We need a child-friendly climate, young people need the courage to become a child!, I wonder: Where is the flexibilization, where does it bring the child-friendly climate? The current regulation provides for women/family to be able to care for children up to at least two and a half years of age – your new scheme will end after 18 months! In other words, there is an absolute reduction in the reference period, and this leaves the question open: What do families do, what do women do with their children after this period of time? What do they do with the one-and-a-half-year-olds? They also remain guilty of any answer to the questions: Where are these children being accommodated? What about childcare facilities for these little ones? The only thing I hear in reply is: We need more childcare facilities according to the Barcelona principle. The Barcelona principle, however, is an economic agreement, which actually has less to do with the needs of children. We from the FPÖ not only demand that the limits be lost, we also want a gradual increase in child care allowances up to the sixth year of the child's life, and that for each child. We also believe that transfers, family transfers, are only applicable to Austrian citizens, and not to all foreigners who live here in Austria in accordance with a principle of foundry. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: But they can pay already, the foreign citizens – right?]] There must simply be differences between citizens and non-citizens, Mr Oellinger, that is simply the case. If I consider that you have spoken of a "security" today, Mr President: Security gives the childcare allowance for three years. If the mothers know that they can get children's money for three years, then, I think, this is a very good safety pad for the families. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you also for apartheid?]] For apartheid? – That has nothing to do with apartheid, Mr Oillinger. Her colleague Weinzinger complains that homosexuals do not receive child care benefits, she does not understand. I honestly say, the answer is quite simple: Homosexuals cannot testify to children, so they have not yet fulfilled the conditions for obtaining child - care benefits. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: You can't measure inequalities with the same thing!]] Now a word to you, Minister Kdolsky! Your ideas that you no longer want to pay the child's money directly to your parents, but that you should get the money directly childcare facilities or horte, we consider it totally unacceptable. The child allowance was introduced to enable parents to make the decision themselves: If I want to pay for a babysitting facility, if I want to pay for a mother's day, do I care for my child myself? – This decision should continue to be with the parents. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is flexibility!]] Mrs Minister, it would be more important, I believe, to make it clear to your colleagues from your coalition partner SPÖ that it needs appropriate childcare facilities. This whole conversation alone does not help. Let me give you an example: Vienna. Mr. Mayor Häupl has partially liberalized shop opening times in Vienna – the kindergartens still close on time. These are realities that are not necessarily geared to people's needs. Furthermore, I find your statements – I have already told you in the Family Committee – a bit strange if you think that the amount of 730 €, as the green model provides, is not acceptable to you, that would prevent women from getting back into the work process. Or your statements at a press conference: Women need to get back into work quickly, otherwise the economy will lose a high capital. As a result, the increase in the amount of child benefit in case of a shorter period of time had been done accordingly. Mrs Minister, if you do not know or forget exactly: You are a family minister and not an economic minister! That means you should take care of the children and not the economic potential of the women. [[Abg. Steibl: But family policy is also economic policy! You haven't understood that yet, have you?]] Mrs Steibl, this is very nice what you are saying. It is clear that the ÖVP has completely disqualified itself as a family party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP lives according to the motto: Women should be giving birth to children, moving them into the work process. – That is pure capitalism, Mrs Steibl! It's pure capitalism that you're propagating here. This is the 2007 ÖVP à la. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is what we have heard from your colleague, Mr Finanzminister, today. He had nothing but to say in his budget speech to the families: In a family one is born, in a family one grows up. - Now just! If that is all the ÖVP has to contribute to the issue of family, then I must tell you that the ÖVP has really lost every claim to family policy. Ladies and gentlemen, especially on the Government Bank, I would like to say one thing to you: There is a study, which is the so-called Gisser study of the Academy of Sciences, which mothers and fathers have asked the question: How would you like to know your child best - far away from all economic constraints? 49 percent of all parents want to care for the children themselves until they enter school. This is almost half of all Austrians. I believe that we should respect this, and we should promote it. Let us give families the opportunity to care for their children as they wish. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The new child care model may now become more flexible, in any case it will be aimed at a shorter period of time. Administrative costs will increase in particular. I'd mean, Let us take the money that these administrative costs make, give it back to the families and leave the child money as it is! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e11995	Mrs Fuhrmann is now speaking for three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12017	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To my predecessor the following: The whole statement, at the end of the day, was a contradiction in itself! They criticize on the one hand the family image of the ÖVP by saying that we want to send all women back to work immediately after the birth of their children. – If all women were to be at home, you would have to ask yourself the question: What to do You here, What are all the women doing here? We should actually be at home and should not be here to the speaker's desk; even you do not, if you want to follow your own family image. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[towards FPÖ]] At the same time, they are talking about freedom of choice and say that the period for the provision of childcare allowance is definitely shortened. – That is not true, because that is exactly the freedom of choice! All those who choose to pay the child - care allowance for a shorter period of time and to a higher extent have the opportunity to do so. So don't talk about one, you mean the other! Under the line one must have the impression that you have no idea. I would also like to say something about the youth chapter, which is, of course, also included in the family sector and which is also the request that is being discussed today. I am very grateful to the Federal Minister, especially since she has a very large department, that she not only tackles health and family issues, but that she is very likely to take care of the interests of children and young people, which I consider to be the most supportive members of our society. In this connection, I would like to add to what the youth speaker of the SPÖ, Mrs Grossmann, has already said: One of the most central points, of course, is the children's rights, which have been ratified by a simple majority, when it comes to anchoring them in the Constitution. If the expert group set up in the BKA has already set itself the deadline to make a proposal by the end of June, it must also be discussed and adopted here in Parliament as quickly as possible. But also in the debate on the harmonisation of the Youth Protection Act, it has to be done in particular, given the problems we have in Austria – but I would like to point out that they are not to be solved by criminalising young people, but rather by supporting them, such as alcohol and drug abuse – that a new Youth Protection Act must also be very, very strongly oriented towards prevention and also question how young people actually approach nicotine, alcohol et cetera. The best law on youth protection does not benefit us if it is not controlled if it is not executed, and the problem is not at all soluble by the fact that one is philosophyd about whether the youth of today is actually neglected and thus threatens our future. I therefore support the proposals already made by the Federal Minister: finding parameters that are not only harmonised by law, but also that need to be monitored – as trade is involved, the gastronomy includes, and ultimately also those who have the responsibility for children and young people. Finally, I would like to say that, in conclusion, I am very glad that this government programme also includes the reduction of the electoral age. In the future, 16-year-olds will also have the opportunity to vote. I hope that in the future all parties will not only deal with the right to vote on the active side, but also with the passive side. I would be pleased if more youth representatives could be members of this House in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12077	Mr Dolinschek is now speaking. Desirable time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12098	Madam President. Ladies, ladies and women. I believe that child care money has achieved a great deal. The scheme is now in force for more than four years, and there is no longer a political group in this House today, which says – as it was at the outset – that this childcare allowance is not eligible for funding, is not feasible, does not correspond to the circumstances, child care money is just called: Women back to the stove! – The fact that there has been a certain change in attitude in this respect is a great step forward. With the childcare allowance, a certain paradigm change has taken place, as from the original karenz money, which was an insurance, to a real family benefit, that was already an enormous step. That was, as has already been said today, a milestone in family policy. The freedom of choice, whether the mother remains at home or the mother and father to both parts, or whether the families give their children to the children's crib – where, by the way, we also have a great need in Austria, especially in the care of children up to the third year of life –, a mother or a kindergarten or a children's horde for care, this freedom of choice is simply given with the childcare allowance. Today, it is not only self-employed workers who have the opportunity to obtain care benefits, but all of them receive the childcare allowance – no matter if it is a student, a farmer or a self-employed person. And that was actually this far-reaching step. Now you can always discuss: How can you improve anything over time? because time does not stop. We always need action to improve something. If one goes here today and partly shortens this period of time, practically paying up the child care allowance at the same amount for half the time, I can gain a lot of money from this that makes it more flexible when mothers have better opportunities to continue to practice their profession, and there is a chance to make family and profession easier to reconcile. No question at all! However, we have a great obstacle, and that is the limit of merit. Actually, this was always an obstacle. We from the BZÖ have always been at a limit of trust, because we knew that this is difficult to administer, is a great effort and will bring only a certain efficiency. There are, of course, certain differences. If someone is self-employed, everything is on the payroll note, and it is understandable every year how much income you have. This is much more difficult for the self-employed, because this is often spread over several years, and then it is difficult to administer. That's why I don't understand the ÖVP that she's always walled for years, and just didn't want us to take away this commitment limit. I simply do not understand this because very many farmers and also self-employed mothers fall into this scheme. That's exactly the people you're going to break up for. I think that this limit of merit is simply lifted, because it creates legal uncertainty, it insecures the families and is actually justified by nothing. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] It is simply not justified, Mrs Colleague! If I look at what is now being discussed about the direction of former vice-chanist Herbert Haupt as the Social Minister, who has said, we now have five years of time, then we give out the instruction that this is practically not administered: This is a very high red tape, Mr Oellinger, you have to be clear about that. And when you speak of negligence: You know what's negligent? – Just as you are acting by the Greens in family policy, that is negligent! I would like to stress this. Yeah, that's it! [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] So this is less about child care, but rather about the grant – about the grant! – because there is the big problem. And this problem existed before the year 2000! At that time, even if there was an excess, nothing has been recovered. At that time the SPÖ and the ÖVP were in a coalition and did not do it. It has then been withdrawn afterwards, so that nothing is requested back here – and so we are in the same boat: We didn't ask for anything but the same. That is exactly what it is all about, Mr Oellinger. I'm pleading that we're just going to lift this commitment limit once and for all. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I am also in favour of simply valorizing child care money over time – that would also be an important step in the right direction. I think we should continue to work in this direction. Many, many measures have been taken in the past: Mrs Bundesminister, you only need to start where we have started in recent years! If you get more information in your sections, you will also see that it has worked excellent. You only need to work on where we started.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12178	Mrs Binder-Maier is now on the floor. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12199	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! It's about the families, it's about the people living with children caring for children, caring for children. But it is also about the compatibility of work and family, and it is also about a piece of participative skills in our society, and it is about sharing the educational work in partnership. That is why, I think, it is necessary for this child money, as we have it now, to be changed, and the ongoing debates show it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It's about making child money more flexible. This means that when I refer to it more briefly, I have a higher “income” – under quotation marks. It is also – like the proposal of Minister Bures – about adapting the child allowance scheme for single-parents to those of couples; it would also be fair and fair. And above all, ladies and gentlemen, it is about looking into the future and not into the past, just as one of my previous speakers did. Flexibility is a first step, the smallest or largest common denominator – you can still discuss many things. In this context, it is also interesting to consider and encourage the abolition of the full limit of earnings and, instead, to reduce the weekly working time. I think we have a lot of ideas, we have many suggestions. We're ready, and I'm looking forward to a constructive work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12241	Mrs Bures has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12263	Madam President. High house! I would like to thank the fact that today we have the opportunity to have such an important discussion, namely women's and family policy, and that Parliament has taken this initiative. It is the evaluation of the childcare allowance on the table. Many speakers here in the House have already pointed out that there have been massive misdevelopments and that, as we know today on the basis of the evaluation, the good intentions and targets formulated with the introduction of the child's money have in no way really been achieved. I think we do not evaluate regulations in order to close our eyes to them, but to draw the consequences of them and to make improvements. [[Abg. Amon: Where are the “massive misdevelopments ”?]] [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Minister! “Massive misdevelopments” did not exist, I must say!]] I am therefore also very pleased that, I believe, a large majority – and I have the impression from the debate – has been able to recognise the need for reform in the context of children's money, and that it has also been possible, I think, to recognise the need for an even wider majority to have more flexibility in child care and to implement it so that we can make the choice and let the families decide for themselves how long they want to leave the profession as long as they want to take care of them. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] There are two possibilities, i.e. 15 and three months or 30 and six months, and the families can decide what is best for them in their living situation, and I think so. I also think that it is good that we have the incentives with additional months to put the father's participation into a bit of swing. We know: Only 3.4% of children's benefits are men. That's far too little. The flexibility of the child's allowance is also a great opportunity for the fathers to be able to use the child's money with a higher relation. That is why I think a lot of these additional incentives. But let me say this because, of course, the single parents are very dear to me. – These are women who are in a very difficult situation, namely, alone with infants. Single parents are father and mother at the same time for the children. I believe and hope that in this good discussion which we have held here today, and in a good climate, we may come to say: We do not deny this second part – for example, the three months for the 15 plus three – to the single parents because they are mother and father at the same time. This is an impulse that I also wanted to give for the further discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: There is already the grant for childcare money!]] I hope, as has been said, that we will also make it possible, with the flexibility of the child's money and with the greater choice, to achieve more father participation and also to involve the fathers more closely. The flexible child money is a first big measure, especially in support of single-parents, because single-parent young mothers could not afford to stay at home for 30 months with €426 per month plus a supplement. Alone educators were those who usually returned to work earlier and in the past lost the money that we now want to return to them. Maybe another point that's very important to me: The option that we will be happy to give young families with flexibilization now, however, there is only then if the families also know that there is a good place to care after that, that the children are afterwards well uplifted when the parents return to the profession. Therefore, it was a good and right decision of the Federal Government that we said that with the flexibility of the child allowance, there must now also be a boost in the expansion of childcare facilities. It must increase with the flexibility of the child's allowance in particular the offer for the care of children under three years of age. We have also fixed this in the Government Agreement in close cooperation with many national leaders who are responsible for it, and I hope that under this agreement – and also the many media announcements that have been made – we will now soon be able to expand the childcare facilities. This concerns both the quantity of childcare facilities and the quality of childcare. A sentence perhaps still to the claim that it would only be an objective of the economy that care places are provided: We see it in all comparable countries within the European Union: Where the Barcelona target is met and over-fulfilled, where families are provided with high quality and high density child care facilities, the female employment rate is higher, there is lower female poverty and there the birth rate is higher. In fact, if work and family are compatible, families can more easily choose children. There is no either-or, but the yes to the children, if the care offer is right, is also a simpler one. We see this in the European comparison. I am looking forward to the cooperation within the government and also with Parliament, and I am pleased that we are now immediately taking up the flexibilization of child care and this reform and, as a result, immediately extending the childcare we have agreed to jointly.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12344	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. Speech time: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12365	Mr President. The women's ministers! High house! As First of all, I would like to focus on what the Minister of Foreign Affairs has just achieved and so said. Unfortunately, flexibilization is only with 1. January 2008 possible. That is not quite understandable for us. Whatever the motion for a resolution says is that the necessary measures should be implemented as quickly as possible, that they should be best supported by families and taken into account in other policy areas. I would like to say something about Mrs Fuhrmann and also Mrs Grossmann's comments on family policy before I go directly into child care. I think this is very interesting if you are talking about the Convention on Children's Rights, about the collection of children's rights in the constitutional rank, from the reduction of the electoral age to 16 years old: It's in your government program. Since October, there have been applications for this. They just did not need to delay or treat and decide. - Then we would have. [[Abg. Steibl: The choice of words is not quite right!]] In addition, the following huge advantage would have: I have already agreed that certain decisions are impossible before the budget is available. For example, the election age reduction would have cost nothing, as would the raising of children's rights in the constitutional rank. This was voted by the SPÖ and ÖVP members in the Family Committee in such a way that it was hopefully postponed once again. So for us not to get along with this and that it doesn't go any faster, you have to take responsibility for yourself. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now to the child care allowance: I find this very interesting, which strange family pictures are partly spread out here. I just think family is something quite individual. Today, she can't be pushed into this scheme anymore, as it might have liked FPÖ and BZÖ very much, so with Mom and Dad and the children, all are at home, the dad deserves enough for everyone to be well cared for, and the woman has no problems getting a pension later. [[Objection to the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Gahr: Black painting!]] The woman has no problem getting a job after two and a half years of child care because she still likes to stay at home anyway. It's not a problem. [[Abg. Gahr: We can do a lot!]] I'm sorry, I don't know where you live. I know a lot of women, and these many women are in very different situations of life. Unfortunately, the happy families are getting more and more rare. And that's not because your child money was such a great way to do something good to families. - I'm sorry. The fact that women take this for granted because they get at least something – the karenz money was abolished in return – is only natural. But this is no proof of the great success of this matter. The parents who will use a shorter karenz variant – and I say right now, the Greens are absolutely essential for flexibilising the childcare allowance, but they are still far too far away from us – will have a lower overall relation. - We don't think that's reasonable. [[Abg. Steibl: Single parents get the grant for child care! You need to know that too!]] What the Minister himself said critically: Single parents are disadvantaged. You will have the opportunity to receive this child care allowance in less time. This is a bad situation for single parents or an even-not-improvement of the childcare allowance. What has not been done with this flexibilization is finally to abandon this strange situation that mothers – or even fathers – who choose to stay at home longer do not have the chance to return to the profession even after the second birthday of the child. In view of the fact that the provision of childcare facilities in Austria is only 11 per cent – and they are also largely taken into account – I wonder where the mothers, who will take advantage of 18 months, will then give up their children. [[Abg. Steibl: Under three years old! Right speaking!]] ==References== In January 2008, I am afraid you will not succeed in these framework conditions, which you are admiring, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12469	The next speaker is Mr Einwallner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12490	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers – if you say so! [[Rejoicing and calling at the SPÖ: That's what you say!]] High house! First of all, I would like to make it quite clear that this motion for a resolution by our group is a major concern because it is once again documenting and supporting the political family measures contained in the government programme. Furthermore, as a young father, I have to observe that flexibilising the duration of the child care allowance is certainly another step towards modernising family policy, as young families and young parents – mother and father – are also enjoying a further option. I would ask you to take note of this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I already have to say that not every mother, every father wants to go to work or – in reverse words – every mother, every father wants to stay at home. That's why: Freedom of choice instead of compulsion! - That's our foreign exchange. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] There would be much more to be said. A lot of things have already been said. That is why, because I am also a youth representative, I would like to talk a little bit about the overlaps with the youth issues. I am also concerned about the much-quoted harmonisation of the Youth Protection Act, because I come from Murau District, and there is always the problem that young people drive from Murau to Friesach and find other conditions there than at home. But that is not only so in Murau or in Friesach, but also in Mürzzuschlag or in Gloggnitz. That is why I would like to express my express thanks to Mrs Kdolsky for going so offensively into this issue that you are trying to join the countries – as we are all asked, Mrs Grossmann, all country representatives! – to create uniform conditions for young people because they need protection and security, they need to hold and clear conditions. I would like to say thank you for your commitment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In conclusion, perhaps not entirely, but on the overall democratic package, which is not only in the government programme, but also in the Council of Ministers has already been decided: I would ask the Socialist Group not to sham and to hesitate, but to go down from the brake, to decide on the democratic package as a whole and thus to make modern and great family and youth policy with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12544	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12565	Mr President. Estimated ministers! I drive with full conviction for two reasons Family policy: First of all, because I myself have a lovely woman and three wonderful children and I know how important the family is for the individual person. And second, because I see the family as the core of our society and our state for the highest and most protective property of our state and functioning families. Thus, it must be our state and government's task to do everything possible to promote family start-ups and support existing families. Here we are at the point: Of course, it is also an ideological question, and if the woman minister lets me point out that we have a most corrupt picture that BZÖ and FPÖ have too much in the past, then I say, I believe that our model and our view of things about families are very modern and future-looking. I think you have to take note of that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although we also talk about the Barcelona target: It is incredible that young people want to get away from families that they want children from zero to three years of age to leave their mothers. – This cannot be an example of a great cultural nation and an example for Europe! I think that's totally wrong. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not really what you say! There's no one leaving the kids...! That's a pot!]] I would like to say to the envisaged flexibility of the childcare allowance: It is therefore to be rejected because it separates the families instead of putting them together in the stage where the child needs the greatest possible proximity to the mother. Because of the flexibilization planned, mothers are more or less animated to leave their children alone as early as 15 months of age and to move them into some care facility. It can't be! That can't be the meaning of laws. And to you too, Minister Kdolsky: They gave us advice earlier. You have given our speaker Rosary advice in a very superior way. If you are an expert who gives advice, please note that our wife Rosary is also a really good expert and that she does not need advice from you on ideological questions! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It has, of course, already been discussed about the Valorizations, and I would like to present a few figures: If we look at how family support has developed over the last few years, we will see an inflation rate of 14.7 percent from 1990 to 2006 and an increase in family support of only 11.5 percent. – This means a real loss of value of €330 in these years alone. The same for the amount of child drop-off: Between 2000 and 2006, the inflation rate was 14.2 percent. However, the amount of child replacement has not been increased. Childcare allowance has not been increased either between 2002 and 2006. – During this period there was an inflation rate of 9.2 percent. In other words, only in this period from 2002 to 2006 families had to take a real loss of €660, i.e. a loss of a huge sum – about 10,000 S – in one year for a child. It can't be! So, of course, the Freedom Party demands that these valorizations, these value adjustments for family benefits be made, and that they are done automatically. It can't be that families are being downgraded to beggars. Of course, we also need to provide family benefits to families on a regular basis. – They do bring the main performance for this country, for that state. It is therefore the most urgent task of the new Federal Government to intervene, and we urgently call for the introduction of automation in order to give families the opportunity to really look into the future. This is also the point: It's not just about raising money, making money loose. It's also about creating a mood. It is about recognizing that, if we do not urgently achieve a fundamental change and also a change in your family image, we will suffer shipwreck, because if the greens are concerned about families every time only about homosexuals and lesbians, then I must say to you: Dear Green, there you are on the completely false steamer, then you have no idea what family means. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Look at the numbers what the relationships look like today! Don't refuse reality!]] We must find back to conservative values, which have also proved themselves well and have for thousands of years led to our existence at all. If you do not want to multiply, it may also be no harm to the population, but please also let our family pictures be valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12632	The next speaker is Mrs Rudas. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12654	Mr President. Dear ministers! High house! I am pleased to be able to give my first speech on family policy today. As a 26-year-old woman, but above all as a social democrat, I know that family policy is about crucial future issues, about key questions about how we will live and how we want to live. Since, colleague Rosenkranz – she is no longer there, then colleague Belakovich – must finally end this conservative strategy of bad conscience and the “really women should stay at home” policy. – We have had that for the last six years, and now it is enough slowly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The next few years must be marked by the vision that parents themselves decide how to live, and decide for themselves how they want to shape their family, and also, Mrs. Belakovich, what family is! The policy task is simply to create more appropriate framework conditions. We have now waited long enough for the necessary framework conditions, and I am pleased – it is now also impatience quite announced, but I am pleased – that we are implementing the plans of the government programme as quickly as possible. For childcare only one sentence, Mrs Belakovich: Vienna is the top rider here. This shows every statistics you can read. Let me just say a little bit to the debate about the limit of merit. I understand, Madam Minister, that you are new in office, that you are referring to your predecessors. However, I would like to say: If you say in a newspaper that in the private sector this would be negligent Krida, I fully agree with you. Only: Some of your ÖVP colleagues were there. At least Minister Bartenstein and Schüssel were certainly there, and that would be aid to the negligent Krida in the case of the private sector. - That's already noted. One thing about the electoral age reduction, because the ÖVP has so attached itself to its flags: For decades you have prevented this, but I am glad – we should look to the future, especially we, whom we call youth representatives, should look to the future – that the ÖVP has become more advanced. [[Abg. Grill: That's not true! How do you know that?]] [[Abg. Grill: They prevent it! They're still preventing it!]] In itself, I think that parts of the ÖVP have now shown themselves on the issue of compatibility and re-entry. I hope that will be the same for other topics. In any case, we Social Democrats will continue to be the impatient force, and I look forward to a progressive, modern and needs-oriented family policy. Since it is obviously common here that all are always grateful to ministers: Thank you to the Minister of Women for having a woman minister again!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12715	The next speaker is Mr Pack. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12752	Madam President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at some of my previous speakers. [[Call the SPÖ: Mr President!]] Excuse me, Mr President, of course! Okay, no problem. I don't think it's going to bother him like that; he knows how we meant it. [[Intervening calls and cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] Perhaps Mr Broukal can calm down. He should go and look at the “civil ” or do something else. The following very briefly to the previous speaker: I think my colleague Rudas is right in the question of voting at 16. We in the Styria have been doing this for a long time. We should go this way together; we should prepare it properly; I think we will also do well on the stage. But on the following point, I think you have to comment: Whether conservative family imagery or family imagery in principle, they are conservative, left, right or right: I think for young people it is in principle important that you do not press family images into a grid where you do not know. Neither one nor the other is the ideal. We of the ÖVP are those who demand freedom of choice, because of course it should not feel disadvantaged to those parents, mothers and fathers who enter the profession. They're not supposed to have a bad conscience, that's quite clear. But vice versa, please, the same for those who choose to stay at home. They can't get a bad conscience either. That is why it is important that we rely on the freedom of choice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This planned flexibility is certainly a real step in the compatibility of work and family as well as in freedom of choice. You have to say: Childcare money is a success story, but the emphasis is that it not only remains a success story but is also very well written in the future. When we talk about youth policy very briefly: Mrs. Minister! I'm from Hartberg, which is a district on the border to Burgenland. I am concerned about the following: My young people already have a problem with regard to the issue of “Unique Youth Protection Act”, because 10 km away the big town of Oberwart is. It also has a great offer, there is a completely different law on youth protection, and that is a problem for parents, for students, for young people in principle, but also for executives in part, which is also understandable. But we are here with you in particular, I think, on a very good path, and we also agree with your proposal to involve parents, especially in this area, and to start discussing the causes, for example, when it comes to combat drinking of young people. I'm calling the tag “Bag Party” and so on. It is important to ask ourselves once again how young people, who are not normally expected to do so, come to alcoholism at all. In this sense: Thank you many times for your impulses, and, Mrs Minister, I can still wish you well, so that we can continue to work successfully in the sense of youth and family policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12802	The next speaker is Mr Voller. 2 minutes of voluntary red-time limitation. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12823	Mr President. Dear women ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! In the implementation of the current government programme, the Family Committee has adopted a resolution to be submitted to the Ministry of Health, Family and Youth and to address many youth and family concerns, in particular the flexibility of the childcare allowance. Mr Einwallner! Don't worry about the Youth Democracy Package. Through us, we will do this with you and we will also implement your choice in the future from 16 onwards. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: Well, hopefully in the Styria...!]] First of all, the challenge is to achieve new changes through the economic situation, but also the reality of the labour market with a view to increasing the flexibility of working time, thus creating decisive improvements for people in working life in order to be able to reconcile children's desire and education with professional desires in the future. For many mothers and fathers, especially single parents, but also for two working parents, it is often not the question of staying at home, but it is a financial question whether one can afford to be able to stay at home. The desire to get back to work as quickly as possible and not to lose the professional connection is quite legitimate and must be compatible with children's wishes. According to a study by the Upper Austria Chamber of Workers, only 3.1 percent of men in Karenz were in February 2005. By far the highest, the proportion of fathers who have gone to Karenz is about 21 percent for the self-employed – 13 times higher than for employees. The possibility of using the childcare allowance must therefore be improved for men who are not self-employed. It should not be assumed that self-employed men have a fundamentally different understanding of the father's role. Furthermore, self-employed people must not fear that their commitment to the family will have negative consequences in their profession. The economy is also in demand to change its attitude towards men who want to go to Karenz. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! By means of this motion for a resolution, you are now also on the move to implement the family policy measures and to forward to Parliament as soon as possible a proposal for the flexibility of the childcare allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12866	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12887	Mr President. Dear Mrs Family Minister! Dear Mrs Frauenminister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! The care and education of children is often a major challenge for parents and a great deal of responsibility. Sometimes these tasks are difficult, but in most cases they are soluble. Mostly, though, joy prevails when one can accompany children through their lives. I can speak from my own experience – as a co-educated father of three children – how beautiful it is to experience the different episodes: being a child, becoming a student, entering the youth, and then the beginning of a professional life. There is a lot of responsibility there, but also a lot of patience and abduction. Out of personal conviction, many parents have decided to do so and take on their duties as well. We as politicians are, however, invited to give these people the greatest possible support. We make a big contribution to this through the financial compensation and family support infrastructure. We can, I believe, be very proud that we are at the forefront of the European comparison. Austria is a family-friendly country and is one of the best countries in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With the childcare allowance, we have made another major contribution to the positive family policy. This recognises the care of the parents and partly pays them. Freedom of choice has been increased, and the compatibility of family and profession has a great advantage for mothers, but also for fathers. We have planned further measures in the government programme. These should, among other things, lead to further flexibilisation of child care allowances. Ladies and gentlemen! Family policy is a major task, and at the last committee meeting, Mrs Minister, you have shown very well what good suggestions and ideas you are here. I wish you all the best in the sense that we not only have courage for children and for families, but also that we have the courage and patience to have many conversations with you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12936	The next item is Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12958	Mr President. Estimated ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! If it is serious to us with the compatibility of family and profession, then the planned flexibility of the childcare allowance is a first step. However, only through a bundle of measures can the childcare allowance be made what it is supposed to be, namely an instrument that meets the needs of mothers and fathers. Freedom of choice, freedom of choice, ladies and gentlemen, one must be clear to us: The use of the shorter and higher childcare allowance will only be possible if appropriate childcare facilities are available for under three years. The country of Upper Austria has now adopted a direction-setting childcare law, with the essential involvement of the Social Democrats. This law corresponds to a right to a babysitting centre. The communities thus make an essential contribution to our families. I hope that many federal states will follow the example of Upper Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e12994	The next speaker is Mr Principal. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13015	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Women Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! Family promotion is promotion of the future. Policy can and must create framework conditions that meet the wishes and needs of families. Only they decide in what form and how long they can and want to care for their child at home. The compatibility of family and profession with the child's well-being is thus a major challenge. With the planned flexibility of the childcare allowance, we now meet the actual family relationships and structures accordingly. I would like to say clearly to the ignited discussion on the recovery of child care for breach of the deserved limit: The problem is due to an instruction from the former Federal Minister Mag. Herbert Haupt was born. Unfortunately, his successor, Mrs Ursula Haubner, has not changed anything in this unfortunate direction. Ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, you should be more reluctant to do so in this debate and cooperate in solving the problem – you can save time-limitation in this context. [[Abg. Scheibner: Go, go, go!]] We're not going to make the bock a gardener anyway! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our family minister, Dr. Andrea Kdolsky, together with all the parliamentary clubs that are willing to do good will and constructive work, will prepare a corresponding scheme in this year and ensure legal certainty. This will provide clarity and legal certainty for all child care providers from 1.1.2008 onwards.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13062	The next speaker is Mrs Schittenhelm. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13083	Mr President. Estimated Federal Ministers! High house! With the introduction of the childcare allowance for all mothers, because before that it only has the so-called karenz leave allowance – I do not know why “duration” because child rearing is not a vacation! We have established a very close social, family-political network that seeks to be the same throughout the European Union. I am therefore a little surprised that Mr Weinzinger of the Greens has called this model child care allowance life-friendly. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen: Is it hateful to give all mothers the possibility of child care? Is it hateful to treat all mothers the same? Or is that the only right step? Another point that has also made me very concerned is the statement that chaos prevails in child care money. – I ask you to look at what the word “chaos” means! That means there's an accident and no one knows what's happening, they're all going through each other. There have been mistakes here, of course, that happens when people work, in the offices, with those responsible. But our Federal Minister Andrea Kdolsky will make that right, in a dynamic and appropriate form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't promise too much! Don't put the latte up!]] – There is no latte too high for our Mrs. Federal Ministers! Nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, there have never been as many life models and most of all life forms in women's life-forms as they do today. That's fact! Today, women's lives are much more determined by the pursuit of professional activity, by career, by competence and, above all, by the pursuit of their own ideas than they were 15 or 20 years ago. Of course, this is related to the training and better training of young women – no question at all! Today, when it is written everywhere that the compatibility of family and profession is one of the central issues and challenges of the future, I say: No, no, no, We have this challenge today. This is to be done today, and it has to be countered today. As the mayor of the beautiful market town of Bisamberg in Lower Austria, I am in a happy position to invite you to my community in Lower Austria – to Lower Austria – “Kinderösterreich”! – because what we are discussing here today I have been implementing for six years! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have a toddler group for the little ones, “Winnie Pooh”! We have a student meeting for children's afternoon care, yes, of course! Of course, as mayor we do a lot of things, of course we have responsible local politicians. Childcare is state and municipal matter. Don't believe we don't shoulder our responsibility! I am pleased that this issue is being adopted, but it is important and important that we take a further step in the right direction with the flexibility of the childcare allowance, just like the government programme says, that many more steps need to be taken here to find a really optimal solution.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13157	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13178	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, Mrs Schittenhelm, there is still a lot to do, that is no question at all. I think that such an important social and family policy measure needs to be questioned again and again and again and again and again and again, and that reforms must be implemented quite, quite offensively, according to the needs of those concerned, namely the family. Just as simple as one of my previous speakers, Mr Prince, who has motivated me to speak, can't be done that you can always, if you're criticized, say that this might not go in the right direction: You can save your initiatives! – Mr Prince, what we can or can not save ourselves is really our thing, so we do not need your teachings. They should deal more closely with the proposals that could really go in the direction of supporting our families even more efficiently, even more efficiently and forward-lookingly. This would be better than to react relatively fluently to an opposition party that has introduced this important childcare allowance together with you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As you have already challenged me, I would like to remind you of what happened in 1999. If you look out here now and say: We have introduced the childcare allowance!, then it is true, because it was a joint decision – it should also be remembered that the SPÖ and, I believe, the Greens were also opposed to this important social and family policy measure at the time – but when we asked for the childcare check in 1999, it was your group, which has still said: This check is not covered! That's a nonsense what you're going to introduce here! On the day of the introduction of this childcare allowance, however, you were the first to stand in front of the kindergartens and to promise yourself what you have introduced here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is also a gap between party policy and real implementation! – Toni, I haven’t even criticized you now, except for you, so you shouldn’t be so strict with me, not even with your mimik. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gaál]] [[Abg. Gaál: I understand for you!]] I still believe – that has always been our demand – that it is right to go towards the abolition of the limits of trust. You see, this is difficult to manage, which is also unfair in a wide range of areas. – We would expect that. My colleague, Prince, as has been the case with the inheritance tax, where you are against it – you are in favour of the abolition, but you must vote against the deadline in a sad coalition! – have you also voted against the second deadline and will implement your initiatives, but that is not reasonable! Reasonable it would be to make nails with heads to say: Yes, we are reforming the child care money towards the abolition of the credit thresholds! - That would be our line. And I think it would be better to take up these proposals instead of reacting fluently to the opposition here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13230	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13251	Mr President. High house! An exciting day – a budget that is future fit! New opportunities – and we want to use them, also with a more flexible childcare allowance. For this I have a very special concern, keyword: Close-up. Childcare benefits many, but: Do we also explain these benefits to those concerned in such a way that they understand them? Explanatory notes on the legislative texts should be clear. - You think that's natural? - A little taste sample. I quote from the information sheet for children's benefits: "The gross income earned during child benefits without special payments is reduced by the statutory deductions. The wage tax base thus determined is divided by the number of months with entitlement to payment of the child care allowance and multiplied by 12 to receive an annual amount. The advertising costs, at least the advertising fee will be deducted. After that, this amount will be increased by 30 percent by 13th and 14ths. Take into account monthly salary and social security contributions on a flat-rate basis. Therefore, the actual amount of the two special payments does not have an impact on the amount of earnings." All right? [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You confused us!]] It is clear that only those who have been trained legally or tax-technically. Young mothers and young fathers are not always. But knowledge is power. So what do we need? – We need legislation that is understandable, explanations that are easy to read. And that's where we all have to get on the nose! Intelligible arrangements for the new childcare allowance, which could play a pioneering role. Let's put them on! In addition, we need more information in the establishments. Why should not works councils also inform about the options for young parents? Then we win: We win the young parents – through the flexibility of child care money, children and careers become easier to reconcile – and we also win the companies. If employers and employees jointly plan to enter the job and re-enter it, tailor-made concepts will become easier. – That’s what we want, and that’s our goal. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13292	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13313	Mr President. Dear women Federal ministers! Mrs Weinzinger has started your debate here today with the words: And the childcare money again! – I must say that I am very happy that we are discussing child care money. We have got a picture of how family policy is dealt with in the individual parties. That was very interesting, especially if you ask a little more precisely what it is all about. I should like to address the Greens once again. Mr Oellinger and Mrs Weinzinger were here and talked about the bureaucratic chaos in child care money and how you can only make simples so complicated that no one understands it, it should be simple and understandable. – My colleague has just carried out what is contained in the information sheets. But if you look at the Greens' parental care model, where it is about phases of the karenz period, where every single phase has certain criteria and that all also needs to be controlled, administered, you know that this would be simple and simply not feasible, so complicated you design childcare, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] It is as my colleague said that it may be a bit complicated in the information sheets, but I had the opportunity to speak to some of the advisory bodies, especially at my advisory office, the Lower Austrian Regional Hospital in Krems, and to have direct contact with the ladies who are taking care of the child's allowance. There is most intensively informed! There, in the discussion with potential child care providers, everything is going through, drawing attention to the fact that there is a commitment limit here, which must not be exceeded or only a small percentage. Nevertheless, we know that there are excesses today and that, unfortunately, there has been no monitoring over a seemingly long period of time. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky has now taken up this challenge of allowing legal certainty to take place in this area. I would like to express my thanks to her for saying that she will make this very sensitive and, of course, avoid cases of hardship. This is also important because these ladies and gentlemen have long trusted that they will not be controlled. But controls are simply necessary, because laws must be implemented, and that is why this is the right step. The flexibilization that is now thought of and the one with 1. In January 2008, the child care allowance will also make it more accessible to young people, who will then be able to decide for themselves what time they want to spend with their children in this early childhood phase. That is why I expressly welcome this, because this is an access to a reality as it is lived in the families. I would like to thank the Federal Minister, who is so far advocating family policy and who is also putting it into practice. Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13374	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the votes, and I would ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 50 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. [[Call the BZÖ and the FPÖ:What resolution?]] . This is the resolution in the Committee's proposal on childcare allowance, which the Committee has decided. I say it again: Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. – That's the majority. Accepted. (E 16.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, on the abolition of the amount of child care allowances. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 49 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. [[17:49:45]] 12. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Petra Bayr, Mr Ruperta Lichtenecker, Mr Veit Sale, Mr President of the Federal Law amending the 2002 Waste Management Act (62d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13439	Now we're on the 12th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Hornek. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13470	Mr President. Federal Minister! Honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Asbestos is a collective designation for various naturally occurring, fibre-shaped silicate minerals. Asbestos was also known in previous years as "Wunderfiber", because it has great strength, is heat- and acid-resistant, can be excellently isolated and woven. It started in the beginning of the 19th century. In the 19th century, a boom with regard to the use of asbestos for the production of very different products. Although the carcinogenic effect of asbestos has long been known, this material was often used until the 1970s and 1980s especially as a building material, since it was well suited for many technical uses. [[Abg. Bitch: AKH!]] Since then, the use of asbestos has been increasingly restricted. Because of the clearly identified health risks that asbestos now poses, use is banned in many countries today. In 1990, the use of asbestos was banned in Austria and in 1993 in the Federal Republic of Germany, and since 2005 there has been an EU-wide ban. However, already built-in materials were usually removed immediately only in case of acute danger. Therefore, even today it is still possible to find asbestos-containing materials, which must be treated with particular care during renovation in order to avoid health risks. The most famous Austrian building, which was asbestos-loaded, is known as the UNO-City in Vienna. Rehabilitation of a trace of this object has cost several 100 million €. Proper disposal of this waste is a considerable challenge. As there is no adequate capacity in Italy to properly dispose of asbestos cement, imports of asbestos waste, in particular asbestos cement waste, increased massively to Austria. ==References== The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Environment and Water Management made notification applications for more than 200 000 tonnes of asbestos at the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, the Environment and the Water Industry in 2007. However, the EC Movement Regulation on the monitoring and control of shipments of waste into, in and out of the European Community gives Member States the possibility of a regulatory measure. This enables us to prohibit, in whole or in part, the shipment of waste for disposal. It cannot be that waste, as in this case asbestos or asbestos cement, is packed in foils, hundreds or thousands of kilometers of waste are transported through our country. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! 200 000 tonnes of asbestos cement waste would mean that there are up to 10,000 additional trucks that roll through our country pointlessly and burden the population with noise, dust and exhaust gases. In principle, it must be noted that waste which is not re-usable must be avoided, or waste should be disposed of as far as possible in that region where it was produced or used. Ladies and gentlemen! It is therefore intended to include a general ban on imports of asbestos cement waste and other, in particular weakly bound asbestos waste, for the purpose of disposal in the 2002 Waste Management Act. This is necessary to ensure that waste is disposed of in Austria with a view to the existing landfill capacity for such waste, and this is also necessary with regard to climate protection in order to avoid long transport routes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly grateful to our Minister for the Environment, Dipl.-Ing. Pröll, and to the parties in charge of this joint procedure. It is thus possible to consider this problem as solved from mid-2007.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13509	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13531	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Importing and then depositing asbestos waste has certainly contributed to some uncertainty in the population, although medially supported, I say now very neutral. Although the operators of the landfills point out that if we amend this law, they may have to: Even if they believe that this law might not last, and even if you look at it – because it is the reason for the request – that 200 000 tonnes have already been requested to be imported at the beginning of the year, you have to relativize this figure, I think. Last year, four times as much was requested, as was finally deposited. So, although all these restrictions do exist, I think it makes sense to decide on this law and in the future not to allow the landfill of imported asbestos-containing waste in Austria. We are deciding today to make a very small change on this issue in the Waste Management Act, which is currently a slightly larger innovation. I think that we should also have the goal of dealing with our waste in so far as we do not only use it – that is in itself good, but I think the real goal behind it should be to have a waste avoidance law. Every law that helps not to turn resources into waste and save energy is certainly one that is very sustainable and very fine. My previous speaker also pointed out that there is a sentence in the explanatory statement on this request, namely that we are setting this initiative, among other things, because we are saving transport routes and we are also trying to help save CO2. That's fine, that's good, that's right. I suggest that we take this lead in many other initiatives, which we place here, and, for example, stop when living animals are transported across Europe, when food is transported for washing and peeling from one side of the continent to another, or even when raw materials from one region of the world are transferred to another region of the world, in order to finalise them there as cheaply as possible – because of the lack of labour rights – and thus to make profits at the expense of the workers in these low-cost countries. I hope that we will then also have this consideration and stop these senseless transports. In this sense, I am, of course, in favour of the positive vote on this amendment. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13576	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13597	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The present bill, resolution on the revision of the Waste Management Act, this ban on imports of asbestos waste, has long been necessary and is long overdue in many other areas. [[Abg. Grillitsch: This is not a resolution!]] This bill is in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle and is in so far a proper step which we are taking in this form. Nevertheless, Mr Hornek, if you address this: Waste is to be disposed of where they come from – Austria has a major challenge, because Austria exports more waste than it allows to be imported or imported. This is exactly what needs to be done, because it is very much about the careful handling of raw materials, with production processes, with waste. Every country must be held liable for itself here, as we have now provided for in this Convention. Of course, there has been a massive increase in these imports – by seven times within two years, from 2004 to 2006 to well 46 000 tonnes! It is good to stop this now in the sense of the population, in the sense of protecting the environment. Indeed, waste management is essentially based on the principle of 'polluter pays' and the precautionary principle. Especially with regard to the pollution orientation, we note in the disposal of asbestos imports and waste, that it is here that there is always a need to ensure that the real costs are not borne – and this must be an essential principle in the waste management sector. The incentives to use resources effectively is a command of the hour: There is still much to do here in the field of economics and the design of the appropriate processes. Mr Minister, if you stand here and say that an important environmental law is now being passed, of course the question is: Why do not major, central projects in the field of waste prevention happen? Why have the multi-way systems been lost in recent years? In terms of recycling, much more could be done than is currently the case. One of the good examples is the disposal of old equipment, especially electrical, electronic equipment, where there are great examples where socio-economic projects contribute to environmental protection on the one hand and on the other hand jobs are created, people are trained. Nevertheless, there is a great need for action in relation to ecodesign, in relation to new services, especially in relation to the detoxification of production processes and products in themselves. To make this resource use more efficient and ecological in general, that is something where we stand in the middle of the way not only in the energy sector, but also in many other processes and now have to go on. Inaccurate waste disposal has resulted in many follow-up costs, in particular in the case of waste disposal in Austria. Mr Minister, we have numerous old loads, which goes into the thousands, with the suspicious areas much more. And we miss the corresponding dosage so that these old loads can actually be remedied. For investment in waste and disposal of the same is also a protection of groundwater and the protection of the soil, an important, central issue in the field of waste management. There are two more challenges in waste management, Mr. Minister, where countries are facing the need for an accompanying licence requirement if hazardous waste is to be delivered. [[Abg. Grill: Is it or will it be?]] That's a problem for private people. Mr Minister, I think it is time for you to act as a minister, because if this is actually carried on in this form, then there will be the problem that hazardous waste will be disposed of again as in the 1970s and cause corresponding damage. A next challenge, which we also see very wide, is the topic of construction waste, construction waste recycling – with incredible quantities. Mr Minister, here recycling is in the foreground, here the public authority is required to set up appropriate pilot projects from the 1970s, on the one hand, for the use of ecological building materials, and on the other hand, for the demolition of buildings – which is now increasingly the case – and to prescribe that the ecologically correct disposal or reuse of raw materials is carried out again – in the sense of resource conservation, but of course also in terms of efficiency and efficiency, for we know that, for example, the recycling of aluminium can save 90 percent of energy and, on the other hand, it can be a contribution to climate protection. Summa summarum is a real step today. Nevertheless, there are still many challenges to be overcome in the waste management sector.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13652	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13674	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! “Catalyst” for the request we have to make today in the novel of the Waste Management Act was a report on problematic asbestos deposits in Tattendorf and Markgrafneusudl. 30 000 tonnes of asbestos waste have already been stored there, and it was planned to store another 520,000 tonnes of asbestos waste from Italy. Interestingly, the authorities did not appear to have been sufficiently, not fully informed about this project. This year, since the beginning of the year, import applications for 200 000 tonnes of asbestos have been made. It is therefore a completely correct step that we are today adopting an import ban on asbestos within the framework of this amendment to the Waste Management Act. It has already been mentioned that, of course, we also need to consider what types of special waste are still imported into Austria. What else is being brought into the country? In this regard, we have prepared a question to the Federal Minister to determine where the problem areas are in Austria. But we also need to think about exporting more garbage than we import. And that must raise the question for us: What can we do to come at our own door to avoid waste ourselves? After all, the goal must be that we also deposit and reuse what we produce in waste. It therefore raises the transport question. There are a lot of small things to be considered and that policy can also be implemented. Some time ago, on the basis of reports from France, Paris, I proposed that in Austria the traditional plastic sackerl – in Germany the plastic sackerl “tüte” – be replaced by plastic bags made of biogenic plastic. You need to know that alone in the Pacific, there is a plastic waste mountain that is the size of Central Europe, that the amount of waste that comes from plastic is very significant – also in Austria – and that it would be a wise measure to put on biogenic plastic. A negative opinion came first from the Federal Minister's office, but a few days later, the ÖVP Vienna took up this issue very bravely itself. I think it is very possible to implement this idea politically, too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These biogenic plastic bags, plastic sacks rot after ten weeks. Mr Federal Minister, you are also Minister for Agriculture and are very concerned about our farmers. This is also a new market for our farmers, because the raw materials for this biogenic plastic are derived from strength and strength is derived from our farmers' products. That means: If we change this model, we will also strengthen our agriculture! Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to support this initiative. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about transport routes, we also need to think about what we can do to reduce the transport routes in food transport. I can well remember – from stories from my grandfather – that earlier products that came from far away countries – bananas and so on – were very difficult to get – today it is that God is thank you, otherwise – that they were also more expensive. Today we import orange juice from Brazil over 13,000 kilometres, we import kiwi fruits that are cheaper than the domestic apple. Our apple varieties are getting less and less and the apple rotts on the ground, while we eagerly grab the Kiwi fruit. If I look at the supermarket shelves and notice that the consumer is very careful about what healthy food is, I have to say that the assortments – which you have implemented very responsibly in your function as manager of a very large trade chain – are getting bigger and bigger in this area. In the past, there were very few shelves intended for a small group of consumers. It's quite different today. I believe that if a consumer can determine whether the food is from the environment of domestic farmers or comes from somewhere, he will choose the products of domestic farmers. That is why I ask the government parties to continue to pursue this idea and actually implement a product label for food coming from the nearer environment. This, in turn, strengthens local agriculture and contributes to the payment of fair prices for our products. [[In the case of the FPÖ, representatives of the ÖVP and the Agg. Sounds.]] Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to be very brief on a current topic. I really think it is a big mistake that Austria, which is a country that takes environmental policy seriously, promotes and assumes liability for a dam project in Turkey. People are being driven out there, international law is being broken, and we are liable for such a project with Austrian tax money. I am also not pleased that we are buying pollution rights from abroad by €30 million. We have to do our homework here in Austria, and there are also things to do that do not cost so much money at all, often no money at all – for example in the promotion of housing. Why is there no purpose in implementing the passive house energy standard? Why did you not set this target in the government programme until 2015? We can do that right away. We can do that today. Why is housing promotion in many federal states used to stop budget holes – like in Burgenland, where the damage from the Bank Burgenland-Scandal is partially paid out? Why don't we implement a thermal renovation offensive in public buildings? Why do we still pay a lot of money towards EURATOM and do not use this money for renewable energy research in Austria? [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to do – and there are many areas that are interesting and important to us politicians, such as the implementation of cereal heating. I know there are reservations here because some think that you can't heat food. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that in the area of cereals we have 11 percent surplus that we in Europe have six million hectares of broken land that can be used for this purpose. We must therefore also provide a legal basis for this form of heating so that this form of use of energy products can also be implemented in Austria. There is currently a very interesting discussion in Germany about it, I think it will soon reach Austria. We thus help consumers who can heat more cheaply, and we reduce our dependence on fossil energy sources from abroad. [[Congratulation with FPÖ and ÖVP as well as the Abg. Sounds.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Of course, we agree with this amendment to the Waste Management Act. Again, my request: Let's also turn at our own door! Let us also try to reduce the garbage that we ourselves cause!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13798	Mr Van den Broek, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13871	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13893	Mr President. Mr Pröll! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Since the application for the 2002 Waste Management Act is a four-party request which has been adopted unanimously, it is not necessary to make a convincing contribution to this debate. It is clear to everyone that, in the sense of disposal safety in Austria, the main focus must be on existing landfill capacities. In a wise perspective, EU transit Regulation No. 93/259 allows Member States to take independent measures to prohibit, in whole or in part, the shipment of waste. In particular, due to this problem of disposal, we were prepared by the BZÖ to support this request, which is implicitly concerned with the transfer of asbestos waste to Austria and its ban on disposal. We shall also vote in favour of the request. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that all the other 26 EU countries have the same right, and I ask myself and ask you: What does this look like in other waste shipments that Austria wants to or needs to get rid of? I can only point out, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not to be overlooked that we are currently exporting far more problem waste than we are importing – in relation to 1 : 5. Thus, that point becomes the crux as far as the prevention of long transport routes is concerned, because whether import or export, the CO2 emissions always remains the same. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion I am also allowed to address a problem that is very busy with me, is in fact under pressure, and even makes me afraid personally, and that is – very important – the problem-AKW Temelín. I hope you, ladies and gentlemen, know just as well as I do that Temelín is an irreparable ticking time bomb that can go up at any time – I say, can go up at any time – if you listen carefully to the experts. I do not want to go any further into the problem of the establishment, maintenance or operation, but I would just like to remind you that the Federal Government has to inform the non-fulfilment of the Milker Agreement Prague and Brussels. Mr Umweltminister! I call on you to act as soon as possible, because in the absence of the right of opposition, there is no longer any chance at all for Austria to close the Temelín problem-car. I think you also have a responsibility to the population that we are not as well as to the people in Chernobyl, where we had to settle everything in the vicinity of 100 kilometres. I say to you, Mr Pröll: The danger is very high. If you listen to the problems there, you really have to act now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13950	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e13971	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we have a legislative amendment to the Waste Management Act on the agenda, which will enable us to slow down and prevent a development in the future, which means bringing increasingly problematic waste in the form of asbestos to Austria in various stages. It is true that, in principle, it is possible in the European Union to transfer waste from one country to another, which makes sense because of the fact that individual countries have different landfill classes and landfill quality levels and that it will therefore also be necessary in the future to enable waste shipments of hazardous waste in Europe between national states. And it is also true that Austria exports almost twice as much as it imports in the case of the shipment of hazardous waste into the approved quantities – as the export/import figures show. Nevertheless, there was a need for action in the matter of asbestos. Why? – Because here the number of applications which have been approved has increased rapidly, especially from Italy. I want to put a few numbers in the room. While there were 2 000 tonnes of approved imports in 2004, in 2005 there were already 46 500 tonnes, in 2006 186,000 tonnes and in the first months of this year more than 200 000 tonnes of asbestos transfer to the landfills planned for this purpose in Austria. That is why we are pulling the emergency brake together today because we have seen this quantity chart. It is also right and important to continue this clear Austrian path together according to the principle “avoid, separate, exploit”. Of course, we also need to see in this context that we not only have 1. This year, one-sidedly, we want to reduce the amount of asbestos transfers to zero, but we also need to ensure that we can ensure and secure waste security for the future in Austria with this decision. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, two more issues which have been briefly discussed but which have nothing to do with today's request. Firstly, the dam project in Turkey. We have not influenced and delayed any other project on the part of the Ministry of the Environment, together with others in Switzerland and Germany, before the corresponding approval steps have been taken, because we have made it quite clear that evaluation, monitoring and monitoring must not least be ensured in this project. On the second subject, Mr Temelín, tabled by Mr Schalle: I am very clear to you, since I have been responsible for the Environment Ministry, that I am fighting with all my strength for the best possible safety on the issue of Temelín. I'm sure we didn't write down the zero version. We have now launched a new process with the parliamentary commission of both sides following the visit of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. I have pointed out several times in writing, not least a few days ago, that we have open security issues and therefore do not consider the entire agreement to be terminated. Everything has been done from the Austrian side, and now the corresponding examinations are also under way in the Federal Chancellor's Office regarding the question of constitutional service – international law complaint: yes or no, on what legal basis? You see, we do everything, we take the problem seriously, and the problem is certainly the highest in the Ministry of the Environment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14020	The next item is the report by Mr Steier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14041	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! As my previous speakers have already said, there is a broad consensus on the four-party request, which is pending today for decision-making. This is a ban on imports of asbestos waste for disposal in the Waste Management Act. In view of high import applications and limited landfill capacity in Austria, an import ban on asbestos waste and in particular asbestos cement for the purpose of disposal is more than urgent and necessary. It is therefore only consistent that, as of July 2007, this legislative amendment will also cover existing import permits issued under EU law. According to the relevant department at the Ministry of the Environment – and the Federal Minister has just mentioned figures – the quantity of asbestos waste imported into Austria has increased continuously since 2004. The Federal Minister has outlined the following figures: Imports were more than exported. In this context, it is interesting to note that, in relation to the total history of exports and imports, a response to a question 174/AB by the Minister from February 2007, although export data from asbestos waste were provided, the import data to Austria is completely missing. I assume that this is a mistake, or that the information will soon be more extensive. Ladies and gentlemen! We are taking a preliminary step today, which would have been an integral part of the AWG-Novelle itself. It makes sense, however, that we are already doing so today and that we have the opportunity to do so with the entry into force in July 2007. To what I would like to make a few comments, this is the AWG-Novelle addressed, which provides for an amendment to § 29a AWG in a passage entitled “Compliments and clarifications based on experience in implementation, in particular concerning rights, collection and recovery systems”. Here, we really should go into us in the next few weeks, until the review is completed, and keep in mind that it is not useful to pre-pay the financial security to the extent of half the annual cost of collection and exploitation. This should be stopped because it affects all competition in the collection system and, I believe, also contradicts the European directives. Mr Federal Minister, let us make a change here together, but according to guidelines that really refer to the content! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14086	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14108	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, I want to focus on waste policy with three aspects or three dimensions. One dimension, Minister: It is quite clear that in the case of these hazardous wastes, these asbestos wastes, we urgently need a bar. That is why we fully support this request. However, I do not share Their view is that this waste transport or this transport of hazardous waste, as it is currently taking place in the EU, is particularly supportive or particularly commendable – although Austria is fortunately exporting twice as much as imported. I am always very strong at the fact that we are taking action in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle and that, because you have put this word in the mouth: avoid – even in this dangerous area, in this area of special waste, we are dealing with the prevention of production optimization, changeover, dust flow optimization. – The first aspect: Asbestos or special waste. Second aspect, second dimension. Mr Hofer, I am grateful to you for this general statement of principle, which has included a lot of aspects or very many details, which I consider to be very important and which I share. Above all, I find the reference to the biogenic plastics very important. We started such an attempt in Upper Austria ourselves. There has also been an action that has been very rainy. The problem is just: Trade does not see itself needed or motivated enough to switch from conventional plastics to these biogenic plastics. There might be a way of talking about any – and I do not know – attractiveness measures – I call it very rough now – also with the Minister, because these plastic wastes are currently primarily there. be used in a mixture when it is politely described. Simple expression: They are burned, and then there are some problems with exhaust gas cleaning. The third aspect, the third dimension, Mr Minister, has also been addressed by a previous speaker. Mr Schalle referred to a waste problem which will be presented to us in a new form in the neighbouring country of the Czech Republic. And that's where I think it's a lot from you – how do you say it? – nonchalant – I think only this foreign word – if you say that you have now started “a new process” – I have written it in particular, this word – because now this parliamentary working group has spoken, and so on, and so on. I would just like to recall how long this took – and I do not know if it was done at all – this translation work of this expert report, which was written in September on the safety status of Temelín. And this translation work was for you the reason why we have not yet become active in November and December. And now I'm looking at the calendar again: It's been shortly before Easter. It's late March, and now I'm really wondering: When did we finally end this translation work? When is the next step? If one has followed the “Report” last Tuesday, this television show, one has become quite clear that the next step of the Austrians is this communication to the Czech Government. It still doesn't seem to have happened, and I'm wondering why. Why, Minister, are you not getting more active? Why are the appropriate steps not taken more quickly? And why, according to “Report” – that was my latest source of information – do we risk even some sort of expiry period? That's why, Minister: Assent to your asbestos policy – but in my opinion, nuclear policy should be driven further by you with a greater commitment and a little more elan, so that we can continue to take the four-party path more offensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14159	The next speaker was Mr Ing. May. Kuzdas. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14180	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! At the end of last year, a small community in Marchfeld involuntarily came to the headlines, through an asbestos dump. At the end of this year, there have also been protests of the population, and the country has only lapidar found that everything is right. The current proposal to amend the Waste Management Act will prevent the import of asbestos in future. But, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is only half the “rent” because we have intensive waste tourism in Europe. In the Environment Committee, we have made a request to the Minister for the Environment to call us figures on this waste tourism. There are currently no precise figures. We only know that we are more of an export than an import country in this respect. We also know, however, that in the European Union more than two billion tonnes of waste are generated each year, where agricultural waste is not yet included. This means that 3,5 tonnes of waste per capita per year. This increase in the volume of waste is alarming. In principle, ladies and gentlemen, the principle of waste prevention must apply, and we must look very closely at what waste actually has to be exported and imported, or whether waste tourism is not just worth it, because it is possible to make good money with cheap deposits. It is clear that a restrictive ban on the import of waste will not be a one-way road. Other countries will also behave in the same way. Nevertheless, we must see that there are alternative forms of recovery and that waste prevention is regarded as the top principle. And for those wastes that cannot be avoided, the principle of proximity must apply. This principle of proximity helps to avoid additional traffic, which relieves roads and makes an active contribution to climate protection. Private storage sites nearby are also an additional motivation for waste prevention. In all our actions, we must pay attention to what the European Parliament has already formulated: The first thing that needs to be done is to avoid recycling, before recycling, before recycling and disposal, so that we are not pushed by the garbage avalanche. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14223	The next speaker is Mrs Pepper. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14244	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! According to the application, import licences have been requested for more than 200 000 tonnes of asbestos since January 2007. There is a danger of asbestos transit. The EU now gives the Member States the opportunity not to let asbestos waste into the country, and Austria is now making use of it. Long transport routes with the risk of accidents at environmental risk, and in addition with the result of unnecessary emissions, are thus to be prevented. This is precisely the principle of proximity. We remember media news from concerned citizens. That has already been mentioned today. In Markgrafneususidl in Lower Austria, there were massive protests last November against an approved landfill of imported Italian asbestos cement. In addition, it was claimed by the operator that, if asbestos is bound, it is not dangerous. But if asbestos is brittle – and that was the case at the time – it is extremely dangerous, and the asbestos fibres trigger lung cancer. Even if there is no direct environmental risk, waste management is an important element of environmentally conscious waste management. So it is logical and obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that Austria has a general ban on imports of such waste dumps. That is why my group agrees with this proposal with great conviction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14280	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14302	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to deal with the problem of asbestos and asbestos cement and, above all, asbestos dust. It is known that asbestos and its materials in Austria have been classified as a dangerous substance for a few weeks or more since January. I would also like to mention: Asbestos is certainly a time bomb for health issues and the late consequences of contact with asbestos-like substances are, unfortunately, very late to be felt, but also visible. Ladies and gentlemen, we know exactly that, especially in the industrial nations, there will be thousands of men and women in the coming years – you expect, by 2020 – of lung cancer, but also of malignant tumors of rib and abdominal skin. Studies in Europe say that unfortunately one out of seven people of the so-called normal population will have scars in the lung tissue in the future by inhaling these fibres. Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to mention that, as a result of this situation, General accident insurance, the BBRZ, the Centre for Vocational Education and Rehabilitation, has commissioned the study of workers affected by its own programme and their former employees. And the results are already on the table: A total of 2,700 studies have been carried out in recent months, and 25 percent, in a quarter of people, there have been conspicuousities and diseases in the lung area. Ladies and gentlemen, this programme is mainly financed by accident insurance, but it also involves the federal states of Upper Austria and Carinthia. And I think it would be important for all other federal states to take part in the financing, because there are now 100 000 colleagues who have had intensive contact with asbestos. I believe that this group of people has the right and we have a political obligation to allow these people access to such investigations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14341	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 62 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law was also adopted unanimously at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, on the successive reduction in the use of non-reducible plastic carrier bags. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:37:47]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (31 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Austria Hungary on the mutual representation of both States by its representative authorities in the process of issuing visas (45 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14414	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14445	Dobar vecer, postovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I therefore come first because the Greens refuse to agree to this agreement. Perhaps this will be a bit surprising in this matter, because not too long ago the plenary took up two similar agreements – one with Slovenia, one with Malta. At the time – and this is almost an indication that made me illustrious – they were not on the agenda in the Committee on the Interior and were not dealt with in the Committee on the Interior, like this agreement today, but at the time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Since this was already a little conspicuous, we looked at this agreement more closely – and see: It is not as if what has been announced before, namely routine and what has already been, but this agreement goes far beyond the agreement with Slovenia and Malta. Article 1 is a constitutional provision, and in this – which is now the main reason for our scepticism and our rejection – it says that it is about the collection of biometric data from visa advertising, visa advertising. This could be explained if the question of the collection of biometric data is not too critical – however, what the Greens are doing. But there is another conspicuousness which, in my view, gives particular reason for not accepting this agreement in this form. Article 4 states that: ‘However, there is no liability of a Party for activities for which the other Party has been assigned.’ Overall, this agreement is about Hungarian authorities doing activities for Austrian authorities in connection with visa advertising in countries where Austria has no representation. [[Call: And vice versa]] And vice versa, yes. This is so virulent because Austria does not have a representative body, i.e. embassy or representative authority in Moldova and Romania is now EU country. So where do Moldovans and Moldovans turn if they want to go to Austria – tourist visa, business visa, whatever? – It should happen that you also want to travel from Moldova to Austria. In that case, when this Agreement enters into force, they shall contact the Hungarian Office of Representatives, which shall take effect in Austria. But there is – and now I come to Article 4 – no liability of a party for the activity that has been set for the other Party. And this is also explained in the explanatory notes to this agreement with the sentence: ‘However, no liability of the Contracting Parties for the activities carried out shall exist.’ There, Austria – I can tell you now – will have problems. For what if Hungarian employees, staff members of the Office, officials, officials, actions where a single person is harmed? Who's responsible for this? We discussed this relatively long in committee, although everyone believed it was a 2-minute matter, and all the answers to questions put by our side remained open. It is also clear why they remained open: Because there are no plausible answers. That's why I ask you: Do you think nothing about agreements of this kind – I don't know how such a thing comes about at all –? Is there something to sign? Who signs what? How do we conclude such agreements, where fundamental questions remain unexplained? That is why we do not agree to an agreement on such sensitive issues as biometric data from people! Now I don't want to spread and explain what is different with biometric data than with conventional data if you want to do so. We have done this more often at this point. - I'm sorry, Secretary of State. I'm almost trying to say: Maybe you can't do anything for it. But you're sitting there now. [[Secretary of State Dr. Winkler: I have the answer today!]] – Oh, he has the answer today! I am going to be very careful now because the answer was also the reason why we rejected it in committee. But now I'm really excited about what openings there are today – perhaps those that convince us. But there they must be very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14504	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14525	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! – Mrs Stoisits, the biometric data are more secure for the state and greater security for the individual citizen, and therefore I do not understand at all that such opportunities are being called into question here. On the other hand, we need to build mutual trust here. Hungary must trust us, and we must trust Hungary that they are doing their best in these areas. This Treaty is the basis of an agreement between Hungary and Austria. The purpose of this Treaty is to regulate cooperation between foreign representatives in issuing visas. This is a pilot project within the European Union. This form of cooperation was also explicitly mentioned in the government programme and was found to be good. It is a framework agreement where mutual assistance can be granted in the visa procedure. What is it about in detail? – The two countries are essentially concerned with improving consular presence abroad. Austria and Hungary will be represented in the future in general information on the conditions for a visa, on the agreement of dates, on receipt of applications and supporting documents, on the collection of application data including biometric data and on the recovery of processing fees. In addition, our States will also be represented in the exhibition of Schengen-Visa as soon as Hungary applies all parts of the Schengen acquis, i.e. if the conditions are met in Hungary. And that is, granting visas for airport transit, passing through the territory of the Member States and staying in the territory of the Member States in the short term. In the longer term, there should be a common visa office between the two states, i.e. a common office. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This agreement between Austria and Hungary confirms once again how important and meaningful international cooperation is in practice, because we can better maintain Austrian interests abroad. We are a tourism country, and I think it is very important that we are very strong in all the countries of the world. It is also important and useful for citizens of foreign countries, because this Treaty will facilitate them in the handling of visa applications. It is a substantial structural improvement, and I am sorry that the Greens cannot accept this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14573	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Also 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14595	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has welcomed this presentation of foreign policy. This agreement is another step towards bilateral cooperation with Hungary. This is to be welcomed, because this, of course, also serves to improve neighbourly relations. I cannot quite understand the fears of the Greens, dear Teresa, because essentially it is about the fact that the visa application for Austria can now also be submitted to the Hungarian authority, and the question of liability, in case an error occurs, of course remains with the Hungarian authority, and there is no way of ruling. If the Hungarians make a mistake, this is also in the area of liability of Hungary, and they cannot address ourselves to us, to the Austrian authority or to Austria. But, Mr State Secretary, if you are here today and give us the honour: Visa questions were something that was particularly brilliant in 2005. We had a very unpleasant Causa to treat here. At the time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has assured us the restless reconnaissance of these dubious matters. It is alleged that there have been some 4,000 suspects. I would invite you to report to us today on this occasion a little about the current development: What did you do? What measures do you have? It has hit or has the ministry taken to prevent such irritations and insecurities of the population in the future? What has been done to restore the consulates, which, for example in Budapest’s affair or in Belgrade, have become somewhat disillusioned? In what form have you tried to eliminate all suspicions? I would also be interested: Has there been a result, arrests, ads, or has there been nothing behind it? I'd be glad if you could give us some information here, whether there's everything for the best anyway. That was, after all, a non-thinking dimension. We had 400 000 visa applications in 2004 and it is therefore nothing insignificant. I believe that cooperation between States, whether bilateral or European, is very important, including in the field of security, in the field of crime control. I therefore believe that such forms of cooperation are facing a major challenge and are at the test stage. For example, if we look towards Schengen, it will be a matter of ensuring that the quality of cooperation can be ensured – the EURO 2008 will require such cooperation. There are also quite positive aspects, such as the question of cooperation in the exchange of DNA data, which has led to our having many successes in reconnaissance. For all these reasons, we will vote in favour of this agreement, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14643	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14664	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Of course, it is reasonable to help each other where the other does not have a foreign office – that is not a question at all. Paragraph 1, which states that the Contracting Parties, namely the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary, can represent each other in the process of issuing visas under this Agreement, are certainly reasonable and acceptable. This is useful and makes much easier. It is also good that it is presented in this way in paragraph 1, because the final decision, the granting of the visa itself, remains in our hands. And this is not irrelevant. I too, Mr State Secretary, refer to the visa affair which has not been clarified by God to its extent. There's nothing done and nothing explained. It is deplorable how very irregular processes of such a dimension – that is surprising in a rule of law! – can not come to a precise consideration and processing. Mr Parnigoni, what is particularly shocking to me – and I must honestly tell you that I know freedom of movement in this direction or even in order to reveal such and similar things; clearly, we are currently not so big a party, we do not have access to important places, we do not have access to media in particular – is the fact that, although you have all this, you do not raise this matter, as it is so beautiful, so to speak. And now I ask you as the government party to try this again. It's your thing! Her countryman in Upper Austria has done really great work, but surprisingly – although he is a member of a now government party, but in principle good access to the media –: I can't! - Well, I'd try it again in your place. I think it's up to the citizens. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The question of issuing visas is a very sensitive matter, because we know how this is usually: bought visa, asylum application in Austria, removal of the procedure, sometime the emigration – and one has immigrated. – This is the first step! An advertisement in Serbian newspapers, Mr State Secretary, that we do not really want to, namely that our visas are bought and sold, is already too little. – I mean, at least there is the need to discuss things seriously and clearly. That is why there is a great scepticism on our side as compared to paragraph 3, which says: From the date that Hungary has adopted the Schengen acquis, by the way, a law anticipates a decision to be taken, and all the information that Schengen maturity will not be granted until it is really so far, it does not seem to be so serious, because you already decide something that requires the recognition of Schengen maturity – that is, from the recognition of Schengen maturity for those States who apply for it, namely Hungary, we do not only provide one another in the process, but we can also give the visa in different ways. This is, of course, already a next step, and this is, as it were, to enjoy with very great caution. So far, we have not had any good experiences with our own messages, now we are still completely out of hand: I think you should think about it again! It would also be possible, after the Schengen Agreement had been granted, to introduce these novels here again. Now it is, we think, still very risky and premature.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14729	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14750	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary on the mutual representation of both States by their representatives in the process of issuing visas is in principle in line with those agreements which we have concluded with Malta and Slovenia during the last legislative period. However, there is nothing to be said about it, it is all right that if you have no representation anywhere, that can also make another state, because that saves costs. In my opinion, cooperation in this area in the EU is important and meaningful. It saves costs. And if Hungary is to be a Schengen country, of course Schengen-Visa will also be managed and represented in this way. I think it's all right. It saves costs. The project makes sense. That is why we welcome it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14780	Mr Winkler, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14802	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I hope that I will now succeed in perhaps convincing the Greens to agree to this agreement. The answer I am going to give is essentially the answer I have already given in committee, but it is probably my answer. lack of eloquence that I have not succeeded in convincing Mrs Stoisits or in winning the heart of Mr Pilz's heart – which is what is causing me to break my head. But now I want to try to perhaps give the answer a little clearer: The exclusion of liability provided for in this Agreement is a exclusion from international law. That means – and so it stands inside – it is a liability exclusion between the states: Whatever happens, what one or the other Contracting State does or must do in fulfilment of a liability to a citizen, a third-party or a third-country citizen, it shall not be liable to the other Party under international law. So, in concrete terms, that means: If today – and we are now taking the more distant case – a Hungarian representation authority, for example in Chişinau, grants or fails to grant a visa to a third-country citizen or a third-country citizen, in doing so, is guilty, then this citizen may, of course, demand compensation or liability against this Hungarian institution in accordance with the rules of the applicable Hungarian law. However, the Hungarian side, the Hungarian state, can assume that in granting an Austrian visa to a third-party, for example, he had to come into liability – for example, had to pay or have been sentenced – not to ask back something from Austria. The exclusion of liability is a purely intergovernmental, international liability, as it is also found in relatively many contracts – not only in these types of contracts. That means in no way that it is excluded here that citizens who feel offended are trying, in accordance with the rules of the respective state – whether it be the Hungarian state, whether it be the Republic of Austria, including, of course, the law of official liability – to keep themselves here harmless. – I hope that this information is not only plausible, but also convincing. As far as biometric data is concerned, I think the answer has already been given. At the time, at the time of the last agreement of this kind, it was still so that it did not exist. And it is well known that it will not enter into force until there is a corresponding EU regulation. There is no such thing as this and, of course, the Member States would have to vote in favour of it. By the way, I can add to what I have already said in the Committee – and that seems to me to be an essential proof of quality, at least of the common visa acceptance office in Chişinau – that in the In the meantime, Denmark, Latvia and Estonia have also shown interest in participating in this common visa acceptance office, and that Sweden and Luxembourg are also considering participating. ==References== April will open this Hungarian body, this Hungarian authority, and I believe that this is very good – especially for the Moldovan people who need to have a Romanian visa not only in one of the poorest countries, if not the poorest state in Europe, but also after the accession of Romania to the European Union, if they want an Austrian visa and therefore have to go to Bucharest. It is there that I take away from a report of our message in Bucharest, which is also responsible for Moldova. And it is therefore urgent to remedy it. I think that is the first step – and this is just a first step! – setting up this common acceptance point here is a good thing and by the way, as I hear it, it is also very good in Moldova. On the question or criticism of Mrs Rosenkranz regarding the other possibilities, I must say: This is only a framework, a legal framework, including a constitutional framework, which is created here if you want to take further steps as soon as this is possible at all. This, of course, depends on whether this Schengen enlargement comes about. Theoretically, it would be possible that this next step will never be taken. It is not automatic – and I would like to express this – that depends on both the will of the Contracting Parties and, of course, on the will of the Contracting Parties to the Schengen Agreement. It will then come to this second step and possibly to a third step, including the collection of biometric data. So far as the agreement is concerned, which is the subject of these negotiations. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am from the Lord. Parliamentary Parnigoni on the status of visa investigations. I am very pleased to inform him that the very in-depth visa investigations – not only from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not only from the independent Visa Commission, but also from the Ministry of the Interior, from the internal revision, as well as, of course, from the public prosecutor – have resulted in what all members of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs – the Minister, I also repeatedly said from this point of view – have said that they are individual cases and not systematic networks, as has been claimed. In fact, there have also been very penable investigations. Before I came here, I had a detailed conversation with our inspector, our internal revision, and I can say: We have studied very carefully, and the interior revision, the Ministry of the Interior has looked very closely. Finally, it has remained with a relatively small number of irregularities. So, in fact, there are some black sheep, and of course I also add that there is no reason at all to be satisfied now. There have been these individual cases. A case has been brought to justice, but it has nothing to do with the so-called visa scandal in the real sense; it was a member of a message that has been irregularly issued from very other motives, not from profitable motives. It has been charged in two cases. And in four other cases, an investigation of the prosecutor's office is under way as to whether charges are to be filed. So I believe that the fact that, after these in-depth investigations, only relatively few cases are specifically examined, is proof that this network has never been completely unjustly claimed and that from the outset we have responded properly with all the hardness and all the emphasis. In the meantime, there have been many – I do not want to list them all now – and very concrete measures have been taken to avoid this in the future. Regular investigations are carried out. The reporting obligations have been substantially strengthened. So there will be more rotation in the future, so that people are not in one place too long. A number of measures are being taken to prevent such cases from happening in the future. Of course, completely excluding abuse, one will never be able to commit criminal acts. But I think that human beings have been done, in order to avoid, at least in the future, such cases may occur. As for the advertisements in Serbian newspapers mentioned by Mrs Rosenkranz, which we have often said, I can tell her: There has been regularly demarches with the Serbian government. There has even been the threat of judicial action. As long as such a measure does not conflict with local law, no other State can do anything about it. If today assistance is offered in a Serbian newspaper in granting a visa, I can do just as little about it, as if I can forbid an insurance agent standing in front of the registration authority, in front of the motor vehicle authority, to offer his help. It is not in these ads: For payment, I get illegal visas! – But we regularly do something against such, even attempts, where it is suggested that there could be irregular visa procurement. I therefore really think that the citizens can rely on the Austrian embassies and the Austrian consulates to work very properly, that everything is right, that everything is done with rule of law, and that, of course, there are liability possibilities in the case of errors, even in the case of guilty conduct of state institutions, in order to return to the agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14918	Mrs Stadler is speaking next time. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14939	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! The current government template, the agreement between Austria and Hungary, which regulates the mutual representation of visa procedures, as we have often heard today, is a pilot project within the framework of the European Union. And it's also a step that could be the start of common visa positions in the long term. This common commitment to responsibility, especially when it comes to security, is absolutely necessary and right in the European Union, because cross-border cooperation in the agonizing of organised crime is essential. I am very glad that our Federal Minister for the Interior, Günther Platter, has been very much deepening since the beginning of his term of office in cooperation with the neighbouring Ministers of the Interior in the European Union. Then: Especially when it comes to data exchange, automatic retrieval of data, the transmission of data at major events or in joint use, and mutual assistance in the event of a disaster or serious accident, it is imperative that there be a confident cooperation between the European states that this is possible. You don't get a trusting one with each other without anything else, for that is also something to do. The European Union is therefore launching a number of projects to deepen and also professionalise this cross-border cooperation in order to ensure the security of people in the European Union. Austria is a leader here. Not only the present agreement between Austria and Hungary, but also the Prümer Treaty or the Hague Programme are forward-looking projects in this cross-border security performance. It is therefore also necessary for us to take such steps to meet the new requirements for combating crime and thus to ensure the safety of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, we have all experienced the recent discovery of a criminal ring of child pornography in Austria. It has shown that we must do everything we can to ensure absolute protection for the weakest in our society. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is one of the safest countries in the world. It is a central task for us to protect the freedom and security of our citizens. Freedom is certainly not imaginable. Therefore, cross-border cooperation in the security field is a very central task in the coming years. I know we're on a good way here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e14988	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. You've done 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15009	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The countries of the European Union are growing together. The agreement on the cooperation of Austrian and Hungarian representatives abroad in the Government template is a small, but, as I believe, very important step towards the European Union's integration. This type of cooperation between the representative authorities of the European Member States has already been mentioned in the Government Convention and is therefore part of the consistent implementation of the objectives of the current Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen, but especially for the smaller Member States of the EU who do not all have embassies, it is necessary, first of all, to make optimum use of the available resources, secondly to avoid expensive double-tracking and third to create a common added value. Mr. State Secretary Dr. Winkler, you have already announced in the debate on the novel of the Consular Fee Act that the Vice-President of the Commission, Frattini, is being pushed forward with the idea of a common visa acceptance body, and I would like to expressly welcome this from this point of view. I would also like to confirm, Mr State Secretary, that this common visa office in Moldova is really well received, that it is well accepted and that it is also a good support for the small state of Moldova. This has also confirmed to me Mr Grigory Petrenko, the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on Foreign Policy and European Integration of the Parliament of the Republic of Moldova, on the verge of the OSCE winter meeting in Vienna. Ladies and gentlemen! I see this agreement as an important mosaic in the building of the EU, and I therefore welcome this agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15049	The next item is the speech by Mr Haubner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15071	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! As has already been pointed out several times, the government document on mutual representation in visa matters with the Republic of Hungary is a framework agreement which makes it possible to provide mutual assistance in visa procedures. It is, as has already been said, a so-called EU pilot project. There are many similar agreements that this House has decided since Austria's accession to the EU. This is a small but important step towards further expansion of our common Europe. There are similar agreements with the Republic of Slovenia and with the Republic of Malta, which already work best in practice. The statements made by our Secretary of State have shown that all the reservations could be cleared. I think we can all agree to this agreement here. It is only a few days ago that the European Union has its 50th anniversary. Birthday, and the Europe we know today – of course, with all its problems, but also with all its challenges – would certainly not work so well if there were not a number of such agreements. But I would also like to point out the practical possibilities of this agreement. Austria and Hungary are among the smaller countries on this earth, and it is not at all possible for these small states to be active with diplomatic representations everywhere. This framework agreement allows us to be present in cooperation with Hungary in several countries. Here is also the thanks to the employees in the consulates and embassies who do not always do excellent work under simple conditions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this agreement we also contribute to security. And security is a major issue in Austria. Not for nothing are we one of the safest countries in the world. As we have heard today, this year we will have around 200 police officers more compared to the previous year. This is also of particular importance in terms of – and as a sports speaker I consider this to be very important – the European Football Championship. Even though Hungary will probably not be there – they are only fifth in their group; they have defeated Moldova with 2 : 0 yesterday, what is not very hospitable, but cooperation with Hungary in the context of the football European Championships will not work at a sporty, but at a security-technical level. So you see: The bilateral agreement with Hungary and the European Football Championship are in our best hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15120	The next item is the speech by Mrs Pfeiffer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15141	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say to this Agreement on mutual representation in procedures for issuing visas, I am very pleased that we are cooperating with our neighbor Hungary in a reasonable way. I also see it as an agreement of reason. As someone whose roots lie in Hungary – my grandparents, on the other hand, were Hungarian citizens – I have a very special relationship and ties with this state, and I am therefore very happy about the cooperation that already works well at different levels. Cooperation at borders, customs and executives, has long been exemplary. Many things, ladies and gentlemen, have improved in recent years. The Hungarian government and also the Hungarian population are working hard to be a legitimate member of the European Union and are also striving to meet the requirements that are not always easy to meet. Who would have thought a few years ago that we were experiencing the fall of the Iron Curtain? The Hungarian uprising in 1956, which I have experienced as a five - year - old child, also comes to my mind. The recording of the large flow of refugees back then was a matter of course for us. And that's what our Hungarian friends don't forget. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] This cooperation, ladies and gentlemen, is also very welcome, and we will therefore be happy to give this request our approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15190	The next item is Mr Deputies' friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15211	Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Schengen area will be extended by a number of countries at the latest from the coming year onwards. Personal controls on Slovakia, Slovenia and Hungary will be removed if the conditions are satisfied. This is a first step towards more European integration, but it requires that the new borders be well monitored and adequately controlled by the Austrian side as before. With the present government template, a number of additional cooperations in the field of foreign representations have been established from the Schengen accession of Hungary. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Hungary has been since 1. Member of the European Union. Last year, an agreement on cooperation with foreign representatives was concluded, which is now supplemented by further cooperation in the field of visas. This Government template is the legal basis for the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Hungary to represent each other in the issue of uniform visas and to grant each other any appropriate assistance. I believe that this is also a contribution to administrative simplification. The necessary Community legal basis for this is full Schengen membership. In concrete terms, this cooperation includes, in addition to the assistance provided by the representation information and the simple agreement of dates, the receipt and transmission of applications and supporting documents as well as the collection of application data. Included are the collection of biometric data and the inclusion of processing fees. The issuing of visas will be substantially simplified for the representative authorities. However, this will only be possible when issuing visas for the airport transit for transit and for short-term stay. This, ladies and gentlemen, is also true, because for longer-term visas the respective country is to bear the responsibility. Hungary is continuing to develop economically and also in the area of security in large steps. I think that if, at the end of the year, Hungary fulfils the conditions for being a Schengen member, cooperation in the field of visas should also be possible. Therefore, we from the ÖVP would like to give our approval to this government template.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15259	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15281	Madam President. Mr State Secretary, thank you for your reconnaissance. I really mean that now, because you have explained the matter to me very clearly with the exclusion of international liability. You are the international legalist, I am only a “little” Member. But I still have to explain to the honourable Members why the Greens do not agree to this agreement. [[Abg. Scheibner: You don't need to explain that!]] It is now appropriate, where there is a 75 percent majority of two government parties, to conclude agreements in which concessions such as the collection of biometric data are made, for which there is no basis within the EU. Now I am almost trying to say that you have no idea what it means, but Austria decides a constitutional provision that says that everything will be possible if it comes to it sometime. We have no idea at all, Mr Kößl, what may be ours, but we now have a framework with a majority of the Constitution – it is also the word ‘framework’ in it. From a parliamentary point of view, this does not seem to me to be very useful. No one can tell me that it would be an incredibly bureaucratic effort or whatever, if you know what biometric data means, to conclude a new agreement with these states, primarily about Schengen-Visa. I am sorry – and I am really sorry in that case – that the Green Group will not give it its approval. Mr State Secretary, I will hardly be able to speak at the first reading tomorrow on the budget without asking the question of what it looks like with regard to the resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely in the context of – you know much better than I do – with the Austrian representative authorities and the handling of visas. Everyone who has ever been to Bosnia-Herzegovina and has seen the suffering of members of Bosnian citizens living in Austria, but also Bosnians and Bosnians who are now Austrians and have relatives who want to visit below, know what it means to want to get a visa for Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – This has a lot to do with visas. Mr Human Rights spokesperson and friend of the Balkans, this has a lot to do with it! What is the subject is still not big-duty, but the President. And this visa agreement gives me the opportunity to remind you now that I do not believe that Austria's opportunities to facilitate the granting of visas are taken into account accordingly. This is a question of money, staff and equipment. I have already noted recently in the documents that we have only received today: So you won't rip a tree! to say it in Austrian. This situation is unworthy – by Sarajevo I definitely know it, and it will probably be similar in other countries – you have to improve it! I have to say that there are all these confessions that we want to bring the Balkans, the so-called countries of the Western Balkans to Europe and give people the opportunity to travel. And if it is not possible to enforce this requirement for visa freedom for Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Crna Gora, then as a national state, we could change the access to visa as positively as it is – only, missing, I say now, the will, in this case the political one that expresses himself in figures. And this is very unfortunate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15323	As the last speaker in this debate, Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig spoke. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15345	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Return to the subject matter: It is about the agreement between Austria and Hungary on the mutual representation of both States in the process of issuing visas. We very much agree with this agreement on the part of Social Democracy, because on the one hand, it is another sign of good cooperation between Hungary and Austria, and on the other hand, I believe, it is also a matter of working together in a Europe that is growing together. And it is also a question of giving citizens relief, especially when it comes to the movement of persons, the associated freedoms and the opportunities that arise. We have already heard that today's agreement establishes a framework for the information and application of visa applications. It is also about the fact that only one place in which the data must be received and that the collection of the application data can take place in one place. In this context, I think it is also important to pay attention to the protection of personal data. This is because it clearly states that EU legislation on the protection of personal data will apply. I also think that the reference to the collection of biometric data in paragraph 1 will be sufficient, and I am sure that this very sensitive data will be handled very carefully in the future. A lot has already been said about Hungary's Schengen maturity. It is true that until Schengen maturity only the Austrian representative authorities Schengen-Visa It is only then that the power of representation should be extended and a common body established. All in all, I think, it is a very good agreement between Austria and Hungary. Especially in the year of the 50th. The European Union's birthday should be clear to all of us, Europe can only succeed together. We politicians should do everything we can to ensure that Europe will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15390	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the present State Treaty, whose Article 1 para. 1 is to be granted authorisation in 31 of the supplements. With regard to the aforementioned constitutional provision, I first place in the sense of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the conclusion of the present State Treaty to give approval to a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[19:27:25]] 14. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 117/A by Mr Mag. Barbara Prammer, Dr. Michael Spindelegger, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, Ursula Haubner, colleagues concerning a federal law that amends the Federal Law on compensation fund law (47 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15457	We shall now proceed to item 14 of the agenda. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Madam President Mag. Prammer. Please, Madam President. You've been doing 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15485	Madam President, Dr. Glavischnig! Gentlemen on the government bank! I would like to thank all the political groups very much, of course, especially those Members who have helped to ensure that this five-party proposal has come very quickly, very constructively, with which we want to amend the compensation fund law. What is the point of this change? – In essence, two points: One point is that we see the situation coming to mind that certain compensations have already been granted under the General Fund, but later on, for example, art objects that would of course also be possible as a natural refund. In order not to have a double track and also to open up to the victim the possibility to claim the object, we want to create exactly this possibility that has not yet been given. The second point, which is included in this novel, is one of the most important to me: The application deadline for the submission of applications to the arbitration body for natural refunds is to be extended by another year. We have also stated it in the explanatory statement: above all because some local authorities did not use the arbitration body until the second half of 2006 to examine applications for natural restitution of public assets and other local authorities are expected to do so this year. – The content of this novel. But I would also like to take this opportunity here in the context of the debate on the compensation fund law to give you, ladies and gentlemen of this House, a brief presentation of the state of affairs. In the context of the compensation fund, a considerable legal and search effort is being worked very intensively. From this point of view, I would like to thank the 132 employees in the compensation fund very much, very much for their work and for their tireless commitment and I am confident that we will come to a good and rapid settlement of the compensation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You need to know that applications are often made very easy by applicants, and the research work in the legal as well as in the factical is done by the employees. We take a lot of effort and a lot of work for applicants, because I believe this is also our task. That, of course, is also the reason why perhaps some criticism might be voiced that we are too slow. I really invite everyone very cordially: Take the time, visit the compensation fund once, look at what extensive files need to be worked on there, and you will be able to give the employees your recognition much higher. Quite specifically on the figures: They know that more than 20 000 applications have been submitted, namely 20 641 in concrete terms. At present, “only” – I am now saying under quotation marks – 4 628 applications have definitely already been paid out, but 13 390 applications have already been processed, and 15 195 applications are legally completed. Therefore, we can really say and say with good reason: We will have decided on all applications by the end of this year, which means that payments can also be made in the course of 2008. I think that's an ambitious goal. Thanks to the employees we will be able to achieve it. And with this, the Republic of Austria is fulfilling an important contribution it has to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15542	Thank you, Madam President. Next item is the report by Mr Dr. Sonnberger. He wishes 4 minutes of speech. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15566	Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, I can go back to 2001. The Washington Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the United States was signed in January. The main point was the establishment of the General Fund for compensation with a donation of 210 million US dollars. The subject was also the It is a matter of concern to the Commission and to the Council. And more than 20 000 applications with over 200 000 individual claims have been made. At that time, the Schüssel I government has put in place concrete implementation measures – internationally much attention –: on the one hand, by the Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel and the diplomats responsible by Schüssel Sucharipa and on the other hand by Undersecretary Stuart Eizenstat as representative of the United States Government. This government has also shown impressively how unfair the European sanctions against this government were. President Khol described this agreement as a kind of coronation of extensive measures and laws to counter the victims of National Socialist terror and to restitution by means of provisions and similar laws. In this House, a total of seven provisions laws were passed: four enforcement laws, three return laws, the victim protection law, the aid fund law, the reconciliation fund law for the slaves and forced workers, the National Fund Act and the compensation fund law, which is now being renewed. I thank the negotiators of the Washington Agreement. I would like to thank the Cultusgemeinschaft, which first of all the complaints in the President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: And I would like to thank the Austrian economy, which has spent 210 million US dollars, and also the Members of this House, because the compensation fund law was also passed unanimously and by a large majority. It was right to maintain legal certainty, although certain social benefits as well as pension schemes were excluded and preferred, because they were exclusively national regulatory statements. 20 641 applications with more than 200 000 individual claims were or will be dealt with by a court of international law under the English Presidency with 132 staff members of the Fund and members of the Board of Trustees and the Committee. I would also like to express my express thanks to this group of people for the valuable work done. Today's change of law is essentially about three points: For example, if compensation has been paid for art objects or properties, a natural refund should be possible. However, the condition is that the amount received is reimbursed to the General Fund. The deadline for the application for natural refund shall be extended until 2007. Furthermore, an authorisation is made for the transmission of personal data from the National Fund. I am pleased that all parties will give their approval to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15628	Thank you, honourable Member. The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Stoisits. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15652	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! It's kind of amazing how the ÖVP manages again and again, Somewhere, to draw the bridge to the so-called unjustified sanctions. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can tell you the following: If a republic such as the Republic of Austria, in connection with the question of dealing with the damage caused by robbery, expropriation, builds up such failures over the decades – which I do not now charge individuals, but only notice it – then I really think it is cheap to say: It's so wonderful, we got it in 2000 – decades after the robbery, decades after expropriation! – managed to negotiate 210 million US dollars into a fund! Now we promise ourselves for years, every time, every occasion! I think this is so cheap, and I also think it is quite inappropriate for the matter, and I very much hope that not too many people who have still not seen a penny of these 210 million dollars have heard your speech. However, this is not indebtedness or responsibility of the General Compensation Fund, but it is justified in the fact that there have been decades of failure in dealing with the reprocessing of Austrian history. That's why it's important to me to have said that. - That's the one point. The second point is not entirely insignificant, not to say, particularly significant: Today's State Secretary Winkler also worked as head of the International Law Bureau on this agreement, for which I thank myself, although I still - and he knows very well - do not think it is the absolutely big throw. And I want to demonstrate this to you by means of a number. About $200 million is going on in this entire “abuse story”, which is the money that hopefully is now fully paid out in some time. As part of the research carried out by the Historical Commission and in the context of the subsequent work on the question of the exploitation and expropriation of Roma in Austria, which was actually completely hidden in the Washington Agreement in individual cases, it is so that the research results speak of an amount of up to €100 million in assets that have been robbed and not restored from Austrian Roma. And now when you see these relationships: 200 million dollars in total, flat-rate as a sum paid to all victims or entitled persons – and to a large extent the victims of “arizations”, i.e. Jews or now their heirs – then one has to bear in mind these relations, which means: The wrong thing that happened at the time, for which never even the best attempt of compensation, in order not to use the Austrian terminology of “reparation” stands in space here, and on the other hand, that 210 million dollars – that is, dollar and not euro; from today’s point of view one has to say: pitiful; no, no one can say anything for it, Mr. Federal Chancellor out of service, I have just said: pitiful, because 210 million euros would be more money for the victims today, for the deprived – which is not a thing because of which one must constantly set himself in light on the basis of what has been done. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel]] However, I would like to thank everyone for the general approval of the initiative taken by President Prammer for the renewal and thus for the benefit of the injured here, and for the fact that today the work of the General Fund for compensation, which is being carried out within the framework of the National Fund, has already been decided that this work of the Austrian National Fund, which the President has acknowledged, but also of security, money and basis, needs to be done. We will now have the opportunity, in the context of the budgetary consultations, to inform ourselves very carefully about the way the National Fund can be secured in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. And I don't hide that there's some criticism that'll hopefully fall on fertile soil. The last word has not yet been spoken at first reading, only at the second and third readings does the decision come to be taken in the case of laws, as you all know, and I am still optimistic. – Now I can’t talk anymore, but you’ll have an opportunity to get this discussed in all the details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15727	Next, Mr Aspock, Mr Aspock, is speaking. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15749	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! After the rejection of the last collective action in the USA and after the announcement of the legal peace by the Austrian Federal Government on 13 December, the Austrian Government issued a letter of formal notice. In December 2005, the General Fund for compensation for victims of National Socialism began the first prepayments. ==References== In January 2006, the fund was disbursed with the sum of – it has already been mentioned – 210 million US dollars, with an amount of 25 million US dollars fixed for insurance losses. The current compensation payments represent provisional benefits which have been made possible by amending the compensation fund law. Thus, prior to the necessary assessment of all claims to the compensation fund, applicants may receive preferential compensation payments whose applications have already been decided by the applicant committee. The condition for the receipt of such a provisional benefit is the issue of a declaration of withdrawal in which the applicants waive all further claims, except for any further payment. The prepayments shall preferably take into account the older volumes of applicants who were still directly affected by the Nazi tracking and asset withdrawals. At the end of January 2006, the first thousand advance payments were made to applicants around the world. – So far as development is concerned. It can be said that today's willingness to compensate for this Republic of Austria is a model example – I would like to say almost: all around the world. Now, however, I have come to some other aspects of the whole and first of all I find a very surprising agreement with Mrs Stoisits. I was just as surprised at the preparation of one: This immediate compensation has actually lasted decades. Who were the powerful in this country in the first decades of the Republic? – It was those who are still sitting today with a two-thirds majority in this House. The widespread attitude, ladies and gentlemen, in Austria at that time was precisely caricatured by a legendary Helmut Qualtinger. And now I've given you the reason why it took so many decades. I will find a very surprising agreement with Mr Stoisits later on. Now on a second aspect that is much more important to me than this look into the past: Why not at the beginning? Because we were the poor robbers, and so on. We know all that is happening throughout the party history. who has played in the meantime, very precisely. – I now come to talk about things that are up-to-date today. First of all, I can come to Croatia to join the EU. – Before applications from Austrian citizens can be processed or reintroduced by the Croatian authorities, the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Croatia is necessary. These bilateral discussions began in mid-2003 and were successfully completed in April 2005. The proposed agreement refers only to the assets expropriated after 1955. The text of the Agreement was adopted with 22. November 2005 initialled, but still not ratified by the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian President Stepan Mesic described the agreement on the compensation of the Danube swabs as a dangerous precedent and thus justified the non-ration by the Croatian Parliament. With reference to the motion for a resolution or other arguments which I shall put forward briefly, I am referring here to the second agreement with Mrs Stoisits. She has said that robbery, murder and expulsion are so terrible things that you can't just put this aside. And here I give her the right – but that can not only be true, ladies and gentlemen, in certain cases, in this case in a state community must apply to all, and this must be demanded by all states! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I now make the following request because I see the time is running so fast – “AVNOJ” and “Beneš” I do not need to explain to you –: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15834	Next, Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15855	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed and have always contributed to changes in the compensation fund law, because I believe that it is also necessary to be flexible in this important and sensitive question. It is also necessary to review the implementation of the laws adopted by us over and over again and, if one sees shortcomings, to adopt the corresponding amendments without waiting for long. Of course, we are, of course, willing to do so, because – that has already been mentioned – this is really about time. As good as it is, even if the heirs of the victims of National Socialism receive compensation, we want, first and foremost, to provide as many people as possible who have suffered directly under this regime of crime, also late – very late, but still – with a corresponding compensation. I am already giving the previous speakers, who have just spoken about this ‘late’: It is late, and it is unfortunate that so many decades have been needed to make at least these last areas of the – under quotations – “reparation” – because this is certainly not possible, but at least symbolic reparation. And, Mrs Stoisits – she is not here – ladies and gentlemen, you will also admit to us that, after being discredited in this House, in Austria by various political groups and in Europe today, we look with a certain pride at the fact that it has been this government of Schüssel/Riess-Passer, which has fixed this failure, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] That is why we will, of course, also agree with this amendment. I too would like to join in thanking and recognizing all those responsible and organizers in the Fund. 13 000 applications processed are a very large number, and it is also important, especially in this sensitive question, that no errors occur, that everything is actually implemented correctly. It is about a lot of money, and everyone has the right to be targeted at the money that has been donated there. However, it is also necessary to put unnecessary administrative expenses, obstacles and barriers in the background and really help as quickly as possible. Mr Aspöck! I also give you perfectly right that there has been injustice in other areas, with victims of that time. You know that together we have always been committed to solving this injustice and very, very, very sorry that in many countries – including member countries of the European Union – this awareness, which we have now – and it has been in Austria for a long time – has not yet taken place across parties here in the High House, at least I assume – has not yet taken place. I only defend myself a little or I am always careful to mix one with another, in both directions, dear colleague Aspöck. I am always annoyed when we have discussed Beneš decrees here in Parliament, AVNOJ regulations, when something is recalculated by the other side. [[Abg. Dr. Aspöck: No bill!]] One has nothing to do with the other. However, it is not fair to share. There is no good and no bad injustice, but there are human rights violations, there are war crimes, there is injustice, and wherever it happened, no matter who, no matter who, it is to be condemned and condemned accordingly. But there is nothing to calculate each other and not to mix. Today we are discussing the compensation fund. A clear yes to this regulation is quite unattended. But I am very much in favour - we will nevertheless agree to the motion for a resolution, that is not a question - of holding this debate in a different place, in its own place more in detail, because I believe that this too is worth being discussed once. And we should do that too, because it is already interesting why all the demands that, if different countries are members of the European Union, everything will get better until now.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15903	The motion for a resolution tabled before by Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck's motion for a resolution, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e15982	As the next speaker on the speaker list, I call Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16004	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! It is truly a very sensitive matter, which is behind this compensation fund law. If the accusations have become loud here that they have made it too late, then it may be right, but it is important that it has been done and that we are dealing here today with the settlements of a very tangible matter. I do not think that the work of those responsible is high enough. It is a very extensive work, a very difficult work and, above all, a very sensitive matter, and therefore also from my side thanks to those responsible for doing this. Thanks also to the President for the fact that there are always uncomplicated solutions in these cases, that one reacts quickly to practically re-emerging problems, that one tries to solve them, that one does not wait long. It is reasonable – if you now come to the substantive regulations – to the § 10 para. 3 to change that, if the natural refund is possible, one can nevertheless perform it as a natural refund and then take back the compensation. This is a very desirable scheme, which is certainly very reasonable in practice. It is also quite appropriate to extend the deadline once again to allow people to submit another year, especially when they know that arbitration agencies in the countries were not established until 2006. – Therefore, there has also been an uncomplicated, practical solution that can be supported. And that the exchange of data between the National Fund and the compensation fund should take place is in the public interest, so that there is no data protection concerns against it. The institutional and human intertwinedness of both institutions is already in place because of the positions. The data are also available in both funds. That is why it is only right and cheap that we are now formally following up on this to enable the data to be exchanged.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16052	Next, Mr Donabauer. You've done three minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16073	High house! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) On Sunday, 50 years of the European Union was celebrated. That must have been a holiday for Europe. What we should remember in connection with this decision-making today is that it has succeeded in ensuring 50 years of peace in our country, on our continent, in our home country. This has brought us a great deal of attention to this community, and that is why we must not only judge and look at it from a monetary point of view, but we must also raise our awareness of the human aspect, of the humanitarian aspect. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website There were tragic times, there were fateful times, there was a sad time – especially between 1938 and 1945. At the end of the day, we have to understand this in some way. We also have to try to bring about our support, but also our understanding, for all those who had to endure special suffering during this time. But above all, we have to learn that great calamity often begins small. I think that's also a task we're supposed to do. If today there is a five-party application for compensation fund, then Austria is once again exemplary in Europe. I hope that many other countries will follow this path or this direction. But I would also like to expressly say here that in this country we have talked years and decades about this time or all that has happened. All this was solved only after 2000. That is why I think that, just as we decide together, all of our thanks to Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselge, who has been leading in this field in our country and acting as an example for Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is a matter of a time limit, it is in further succession about the amendment of § 10 para. 3rd. I think these are all very important measures which are important for a further good process in the compensation fund at the end of the day. But not only is it offered compensation, but there is also a documentation archive where scientists were very critical about this time, where they were commissioned to fix all these problems and all these excesses, in order to give the afterworld a message, a teaching, a reminder.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16132	The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. You are registered with 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16153	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Everything has already been said about the content of this small, but necessary, and – as far as the period-limitation is concerned – very important novelle. - I don't want to repeat this now. I am pleased that a five-party request has been made and that the whole House will obviously agree with it. What I didn't like is that two things have been mixed together again, which you shouldn't mix. – But, as I said, I think it is positive that there will be unanimous decision-making. Madam President, Mr Prammer has already mentioned the large number of requests, and this shows the great effort and the great responsibility of the staff of the Fund, because, as has already been said, it is a very sensitive matter, because it is also very difficult to research the links and bring the documents together. That is why I would like to thank you, just like other speakers, for the fact that excellent work is being done. I would also like to say this in the direction of the audience gallery: Thank you! It is a very important task for us, for Austria, and I am pleased that there is such great progress and that, as has already been said, the payments will be made next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16190	The next item is the speech by Mr Praßl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16212	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In front of us, as a result of parliamentary unity, there is a five-party request to amend the compensation fund law – a law that was put on track in 2001 and was necessary. While for decades a legal solution of this kind was spoken of, nothing happened at all. It was only with the cabinet bowl I that it was possible to set a very important accent in the area of compensation rights. Legal conditions for the injured were finally created. Of course, this law was necessary and important for the ability of our Republic to act. All five political groups of the National Council are committed to this legislation. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we want to make a joint proposal to adapt this compensation fund law. The provisions of the compensation fund law allow former owners or their heirs, properties and movable assets to be recovered. – Zig thousands of applications have to be processed, and I would also like to express a great deal of thanks to all those who deal with them and work on them. On the other hand, this amendment also seeks to establish that a subsequent natural refund is also possible. Ladies and gentlemen! A double cover of compensation cannot, of course, be possible. Therefore, the compensation already received must also be reimbursed. In addition, the proposed change in the law is intended to re-regulate the exchange of data today. The settlement in the context of compensation also requires an exchange of information between the General Fund and the National Fund. In order to ensure a successful handling of the matter, it must also be possible to provide personal data. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that there is a five-party agreement here and there is also agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16260	As the last speaker, Mr Marizzi is speaking. 3 minutes is the voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16281	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I would like to join with my previous speakers: Today, when we decide on the amendment of the compensation fund law, we respond to the needs to which the fund is exposed. The history of the Fund has already been sufficiently explained here: starting from 1995, the recognition of co-indebtedness, or the Washington Agreement of 2001 in the end, to the Federal Act of 28. May 2001. We do not want to thank the then Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, who were 28 years old. In May 2001, the Federal Act introduced it. – This issue has therefore become a five-party request. The National Fund of the Republic of Austria is an institution that is no longer possible because it is trying – and, we say, very well tried – to rebalance enormous injustices caused by National Socialism and to compensate the victims and their heirs of stolen property. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The President-in-Office referred to the following figures: Of course, these figures are behind many, many human fates that cannot be treated today in the short of 3 minutes. Finally, however, I would like to say the following: Nothing can be recovered with the Fund. – That would be a misleading expression. It can only be tried that Austria is taking on this responsibility and, as far as it is, being unjustly removed, is still being compensated. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Since it concerns all five parties in this House, I would like to thank Hannah Lessing and her fund staff for the fair and great work, and also all those who have passed this law, on behalf of all – and you, personally, allow me.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16325	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft federal law amending the compensation fund law, together with the title and receipt in 47 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, Mr Aspöck, on compensation and restitution for displaced and displaced persons. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:09:25]] 15. Point Report of the Immunities Committee on the Request of the National Criminal Court Vienna (091 Hv 24/07a) for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Werner Kogler(60 d. b.) 16. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Criminal Court of Vienna (092 Hv 24/07h) for approval of the official prosecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Werner Kogler(61 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16407	We now come to the items 15 and 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. No one is reported in the word. That is why I am closing the debate. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Immunities in 60 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the Regional Court for Criminal Matters of Vienna,..., for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Werner Kogler will be in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutors and the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council. Werner Koglerbestands; therefore, an official persecution of the deputies becomes the National Councillor Mag. Werner Kogler does not agree.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request made by the Immunities Committee in 61 of the supplements to decide on the following: “In consideration of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna,... for approval of the official persecution of the MP to the National Council Mag. Werner Kogler will be in the sense of Art. 57 para. 3 B-VG found that a link between the criminal action claimed by the private prosecutor and the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council. Werner Koglerbestands; therefore, an official persecution of the deputies becomes the National Councillor Mag. Werner Kogler does not agree.” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this request for a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. The agenda is exhausted. Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16503	We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Ing's request. Westenthaler, the Family Committee on Reporting on Amendment 33/A by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Childcare Act, BGBl. I No. 103/2001, amended to 30. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:12:35]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-29-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00017_d8e16534	I am still announcing that, at today's meeting, independent requests were made for 174/A to 185/A. Questions 581/J to 599/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Friday, 30. March, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. Before I close the meeting, I announce that it will be held immediately after this meeting of the Court of Auditors in the local V. This meeting is closed.
