ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2659	The meeting was opened. ==References====External links== Meeting of 16 and 17. ==References====External links== Meeting of 17 March 1990 January 2007 the Parliament's management has remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Einm, Gaál, Haberzettl, Keck, Scharer, Spindelberger, Riener, Dr. Lichtenecker and Dolinschek have been reported as prevented. [[11:03:22]] Angelobung
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2693	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that the mandate of Deputies Adolfe Herta Mikesch has been granted by the relinquished of Deputies Dr. Ursula Plassnik. ==References====External links== The National Council meeting was given the mandate of Deputies Doris BuresFrau Laura Rudas. Since the electorate is present and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mr Rainer Wimmer, to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2748	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2769	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2785	Thank you. . I warmly welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[11:04:43]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2812	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Lock with lip confessions: Climate protection now – The job engine of the future!" First of all, Mrs Deputies, third President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. I give it to her and draw her attention to the fact that her speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2844	Good morning! Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! The interest in climate protection should not be so great: The Minister for the Environment is here, but perhaps the Minister for Economic Affairs is still taking place – that is to say you, Mr Bartenstein – that would be nice! [[Call to the ÖVP: There are several ministers there!]] Several ministers, yes. In recent weeks and months, we have discussed very intensively the issue of climate protection, but I think it is time to make nails with heads and end with constant confessions written on the paper, but they are not worth much of the content and efficiency. I believe credibility is generally a certain problem of this federal government, but it was also a problem of the last federal government, especially you, Mr Environment Minister, which can be seen by looking at your climate change balance. I would like you to not just make yourself here today and say: Yes, we are on a bad path, but now everything is getting better, because it has never been as good as now, and the government programme is as good as never before!, but that you are also a little self-critical about the past, draw the right conclusions for the future and also take the right measures. So I'm at the first point: renewable energy, green electricity in Austria. [[The speaker put in place a table entitled “Power: Share of Renewable Energy in sinking flight”.]] Oekostrom has been much discussed in Austria lately, and Austria is always trying to present itself very well with “performances” – under quotations – from the past. What you see here on this chart is the developments of recent years and a trend forecast of how things continue if you don't change dramatically if you don't make an absolute turnaround in energy policy in the Ecostrom Act – and that's the opposite of what happened in the past by shortening the funding by 80 percent! The starting point for the share of renewable energy in Austria was 70 percent in 1996 – that is, not so long ago – and has now fallen to 57 percent. 57 percent! The Austrian Federal Government wants to reach 80 percent over the next four years, and I would like to hear a few measures today about how you want to achieve this. There is definitely no lip recognition, but there is a need for action – action and proper funding, and unfortunately the government programme does not find anything to do with it. On the issue of credibility: Minister for Economic Affairs, you manage energy policy, you shape Austrian energy policy, and you also shape European energy policy. I believe that it is already time to implement what is being preached in Austria at European level. What I learned yesterday about what is happening in Brussels at the moment, which stands for Austria, is tough! – You act fundamentally against the way you position yourself in Austria! In Brussels, within the European Union, Austria, through you, is currently a lobbyist against climate change targets, against binding renewable energy targets and against an energy transition as it would be necessary. [[Call the ÖVP: That's wrong!]] That's not wrong, but that's definitely the truth, it's from documents that have now appeared. The big question is how the European Union is further positioning energy policy, important decisions are being made – and Austria is acting here on the side of the brakes and not on the side of the innovative countries! Denmark, for example, also the great coalition in Germany are for binding goals, Austria not. You can explain this to the Austrian population: that the Austrian Federal Government in Brussels does not make strong efforts to set climate protection targets at international level beyond the Kyoto target. You know, the Kyoto target is a drop on the hot stone. If the course continues that way and only this Kyoto goal and nothing else is agreed, Austria will not look the way it now looks in the future. Your children, your grandchildren will not see any glacier anymore, the regions of the Mediterranean will probably be uninhabitable, it will be too hot, days over 40 degrees will be the rule in Austria and Central Europe and no longer the exception. In order to avoid this, it takes a change of course and a turnaround in the trend, and European policy is needed to do so! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Federal Minister Bartenstein! Why do you block binding Kyoto targets at European level? Why are you blocking that the European Union is contaminating itself for stricter, more rigid and committed objectives in climate protection? Why are you blocking this, Minister Bartenstein? Why block the setting of binding renewable energy targets? – Austria has no problem at all, so I don’t understand when you come up with arguments such as: The job market is at risk and is an obstacle to Europe in the medium term! The opposite is true: It is not an obstacle to jobs, it is a job creation to work for climate change and renewable energy! This is not only evidence of studies, but also of practice in the meantime, and it is also evidenced by the Austrian companies that are very good on the road in this area. Active climate protection is therefore not only an environmental bid, but also an economic command. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I do not understand why at European level you represent the interests of the gas lobby, perhaps of Iran or of the Russian energy giants, but not the Austrian interests. The Austrian interests are as follows: Climate protection and renewable energies. Again and again, you argue that this is an opportunity for the economy. - I think that's undisputed. There is a small, fine industry in Austria that has created thousands of jobs. Individual companies invest extremely much and have a good chance to play in this global market, which is now opening up. But in Austria they need a functioning home market and support – and not disability! One example: the company Fronius in Upper Austria; Ex-Bundeskanzler and now Klubobmann Wolfgang Schüssel has visited her. This company has predicted that already 5 000 jobs in the area of solar power alone, and more than 20 000 jobs would be possible in this area. 20 000 future-proof jobs – if this is not an economic opportunity, I don't know! By the way, this company spends more photovoltaics than the Federal Government for the whole of Austria for its research budget in the field of renewable energy sources alone. A single company spends this only for its research funding! – Is that not a certain misunderstanding, Mr Minister, a small misunderstanding? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The Economic Research Institute predicts nearly 100 000 jobs in this area. - That's a huge chance! If you continue to prevent this in Austria, you also prevent these companies from getting a foothold in the world market. This is what the Japanese companies or American companies will do. The “economist” now writes “The greening of America”, pictures the Statue of Freedom with an energy saving lamp in hand, and the “economist” is not a left-wing environmental protection magazine but a liberal economic magazine. In America, too, a radical rethinking begins, and the first laws on climate protection are likely to happen this year – and we have been discussing the convention for 15 years and do not act! – This is the accusation I make to you both, Minister of Agriculture and Minister for Economic Affairs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I believe that the economy in this area is particularly concerned can no longer hear the destruction of jobs by means of renewable energies and the establishment of climate change targets – the opposite is true! To conclude: I believe that it is time – if you yourself have written so few measures into your government programme – to support a little. You can be helped. You have already written down some of the headlines from the Green Climate and Energy Change Programme for the government programme, but it is a little watered down. You yourself have admitted that you have written it down; that doesn't matter, it's not a problem. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Why do you get upset?]] No, I'm not upset, I'm just missing the concrete steps and measures. Headings alone are a little too little. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You can be helped – we are happy to help. This afternoon, we will make a comprehensive proposal in which we will make a number of proposals on how the energy transition in Austria can look like, how it can be financed, how it will create more jobs, how it can create new, future-proof jobs and can also relieve households. This is a very important point: It is not just about the economy, it is also about households. Be aware that in your household you will consume 20 percent more electricity than you actually need for your comfort! You could keep the same level without losing comfort without having to shut down the refrigerator or read your newspaper at the Kienspan in the evening and consume 20 percent less electricity. – This is easy with a comprehensive energy-saving consultation. Each household would save at least 100 € per year. We do not need to wait for a tax reform in 2010, the discharge can happen at once: through comprehensive electricity savings advice – a project to relieve households, a project to protect the climate and also a demonstration project that you could undertake if you join our proposals. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have now budgeted € 3 million for energy-saving advice, with € 15 million that could be made universal, and that is a mini-investment compared to what it actually brings. – This was just a simple example of our programme; there are a number of other proposals. Mr Federal Minister, if you were to make yourself here now and say that you had done everything and the government programme was great, then I would refer to the past. Nothing's great! You have a huge problem, and I think you also need a little more backwind and a little more suggestions in this situation. I would also like to make it very serious for you not to repeat these proposals, but to take them up once and for all, in the sense of a living parliamentaryism - the opposition also has a good idea - and perhaps to make a little more concrete in the measures so that in 2010 we do not face the situation, a budget that would by far exceed the Eurofighter dimension, namely, € 2 to € 4 billion, for penalty payments for the failure of climate change targets. Investment now and do not pay punishment later! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2958	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e2979	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I am very happy that so many young listeners are here today – about their future in climate change! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, say that there are only lip confessions, I have to tell you: They are constantly talking – but we are acting! [[New applause with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is the difference in our climate change and climate change policy! The data in European comparison show how efficiently we have managed, namely: Decoupling economic growth to environmental performance, CO2 emissions. Compared to 30 industrial nations, we are in place 5. The Institute of the German Economy says Austria is exemplary in the issue of emissions, environmental performance and economic performance. And that should make us proud. It is also true, of course, that we have not reached the end of the path, which reaches the achievement of our goals – the basis of 1990 minus 13 percent; by the way, a very ambitious goal – as well. The second point we can see as a success report is something you have mentioned: Austria and the European Union have always known how to work internationally as a model. And it was also the drilling of hard boards, in all formations – at UN level, at international conferences in Kyoto – to point out that climate change cannot be decided in Austria or the European Union alone, but that we must take partners on board. The fact that there are first seeing signs where not least an Austrian in America has given rise to this is something positive, which should also give us courage, because of course the booming countries and economies such as the USA or China and the Asian region will be the key to the question: Stop climate change and a maximum of 2 degrees of global warming and no more! We have this task to pursue together. What is the starting position? Where are we? What have we done? – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, during the EU Presidency of Austria in the first half of 2006, we started to set very important impulses. I recall that a European Union energy saving potential from 20 percent to 2020 has been enshrined in the Spring European Council. I also remember that it was Wolfgang Schüssel and we as a whole who, in a massive way, insisted that Europe should set itself this goal. We have also sent a signal to set the share of renewable energy in Europe to a target of 15 percent by 2015 and the share of biofuels to a target of 8 percent. And we have also given the signal that nuclear power for us, as for many others, is not a solution to operate climate protection. These have been very important requirements that we have developed together. With the biomass action plan, we have laid the basis for a European planning instrument to jointly develop climate change protection. And with the EU sustainability strategy we have adopted, we have put climate as an important priority in this strategy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, do not forget that in recent years, since 2000, we have given very important impetus to climate protection in Austria. We increased the federal funds by €30 million per year. We have thus made environmental investments in the country, especially in renewable energy and in energy efficiency, we have launched an eco electricity law that will bring us up to 2010, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, a 10 percent share of renewable eco electricity – more than you have ever set in your papers as a target for the year 2010. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] This is applied climate policy! With the road pricing for trucks in the past few years, we have made a clear signal of cost-truth, a first important step to redirection traffic flows, and have given a real signal in the field of transport, which is certainly the central challenge in climate protection. We have sent, painfully for industry, after long discussions – we two know what we are talking about – an emission trading plan, a cover for the Austrian industry to Brussels, where today the Commission says: exemplary, one of the most ambitious emissions trading plans. [[towards Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] So we have not only in the transport sector, we have also put in place a valid plan in the industrial field in comparison with all the other areas of the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, we have not only covered the industry, we have also promoted the industry. One of the most booming sectors in the Austrian industry is environmental technology. 20 000 jobs – a strong trend – are already securing the environmental technology industry, the job engine of the present. There are two sides of a medal: Environmental policy and economic policy, and with the environmental objectives, with the achievement of climate change objectives, we want to further boost the environmental technology job engine. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I will, together with the Minister for Economic Affairs and the industry concerned, force an environmental technology offensive so that we can also do business with environmental technology in the water sector, in the wastewater sector, but above all in the modern alternative energy supply. Average sales growth in environmental technology is twice as high in Austria, which is 7.3 percent, as in the rest of the production of property. The first important sign, too, that environmental policy can not only achieve environmental objectives, but also boost the economy, ladies and gentlemen. The last point I want to make today is what the Federal Government has done in the government agreement on the formation of the great coalition. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the comparison must make you sure: Never before has a federal government set itself such ambitious goals and implemented measures to operate climate protection in Austria. Together, we want to see energy efficiency as the main objective. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] Clearly, we need to be more efficient in terms of energy saving. Good for the environment, good for the wallet is the motto, and together with the federal states in the area of space heating, insulation, new construction, passive house standard, low-energy houses, renovation of very problematic post-war buildings will provide an important impetus. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I am also talking about this with the federal states. By the way, the reorganisation sector is also a work engine, as is the case in a few other areas, because it is very labour-initiative. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We will bring €500 million into an energy and climate protection fund to enable technology, development and investment. It has never been used so much money for climate protection and energy issues in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But never so bad!]] We want to increase the share of renewables in electricity generation to 80 percent by 2010, to 85 percent by 2020. And if you're talking about measures, Yes, we will also develop a master plan for optimal use of hydropower. Ladies and gentlemen! We will – and this very quickly – make even more ambitious what we have presented in the field of transport, namely 5.75 per cent addition of bioethanol and biodiesel, namely not only 5.75 per cent by 2008 but 10 per cent by 2010. We will thus achieve a CO2 reduction of more than 2 million tonnes. We are also responsible for this in Europe. It pays off once again that the Minister of Agriculture and the Environment has the responsibility in one place, because we see exactly in this area: alternative energy future good for the environment, but also good for rural areas and a new income base for Austrian farmers, and this is now to be developed together. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek]] You see, without a claim to completeness, very, very ambitious goals with concrete measures, and we will be able to achieve our climate change target by 2012 - minus 13 percent, one of the most ambitious in Europe and worldwide.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3092	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants in the current hour should not exceed 5 minutes according to Rules of Procedure. First of all, Mrs Bayr. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3116	Ladies and gentlemen! The world has fever – that is why, among other things, it is because we have heated it too much over the last decades. Although climate protection is, of course, a global challenge, an Austrian contribution, a noticeable, efficient contribution is more than urgently necessary. In this sense I also very much welcome Minister Pröll’s last week’s “Freühlingserwachn”, which comes late, but it comes anyway, his admission that our figures are grossly bad, his admission that it is now high time to really do something. – Yes, it is, and I am sure that a large majority in a SPÖ-led grand coalition can really be found to be able to take decisive measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What measures?]] - I'll be right back to this one. The energy and climate protection funds with the €500 million mentioned will be used to mobilise additional investments, as these € 500 million alone will not, of course, be enough. And that this works, for example, shows the city of Vienna with a very dedicated climate protection programme, which has existed since 1999 and where many measures have already been implemented and are now taking place. I want to mention three of them. On the one hand, in the last year alone, the promotion of photovoltaics – no, it will not – which last year amounted to €1.2 million, has triggered € 4.5 million in investment. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is being halved by the way! It's going to be 1. - Yes, half of it!]] A very dedicated thermal house renovation programme not only helps to clean up 50 000 homes in the long term and thus to save a lot of CO2, but also creates 2 000 jobs, especially in the construction industry. And the state-of-the-art forest biomass power plant in Vienna helps save 144,000 tons of CO2 a year. Climate protection is paying off for Vienna. This is shown by the fact that the per capita CO2 emissions in Vienna amount to 5.7 tonnes, while at the federal level they make up 11.2 tonnes. So these are very big differences, and this shows very clearly where the trip should go. As a new environmental spokesperson of the SPÖ, the issue of climate protection will certainly be one of the priorities of my work. I would now like to take an active part in the recasting of the national climate strategy, where it is very important for me to really have an honest discussion on the basis of annual reports in Parliament, where it is not a question of changing small political funds, but of really seeing how far this programme is taking, what is working, which is not working. I would like us to develop this honestly together in the sense of a common and healthy environment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I believe that, of course, the measures we have to put in place in the country are particularly relevant. I think we should start thinking about what a postfossile era looks like. It is clear to all that in a few decades' time coal, gas and oil will be history, and I believe that in this short period of time, which remains for us, it makes sense to do more intelligent things with fossil resources than to burn them. I'm just thinking about the pharmacy, for example, where there are quite different possibilities. If we invest in research to promote alternative energies today, we will now create the jobs of tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. In fact, the issue of public transport is very important. We know that the transport sector is growing more and more, more and more CO2 is emitted. The 6-billion-€ package set up in the Coalition Convention to invest in the rails, which can be a real alternative to motorised individual traffic, can, in my opinion, help motivate people to change, to leave the car ever more often and to be on the road with attractive public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Austria needs to get involved in the discussion about the process after Kyoto, after 2012 and see that we get a broad and sustainable alliance that ensures that real effective measures are put in place everywhere, also in the USA, also in Australia, also in Japan. Only in this way will we be able to achieve a somewhat tolerable warming of 2 degrees in the global average. All the measures we put in place under the CDM programme, i.e. in developing countries, must be truly development-relevant, must be anti-poor, since we also have to deal responsibly with natural raw materials in the countries. It cannot be that we now almost only understand this as a free buy, but these are really important measures. Ladies and gentlemen, last but not least: The discussion over the last few days has shown us that many Austrians are willing to do something for climate protection, to really throw themselves into the stuff, to leave the car standing, to heat up differently. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I can promise you: We from the Social Democratic Party will be a strong partner of the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3193	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3214	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change is visible to all of us, it is noticeable to all of us, especially in its impact, it causes many people to think about what is happening in this world, but, of course, as Austrians, we are not solely responsible for this phenomenon, for this development. However, unlike many other countries, we have not only recognised the problem very early, but also started measures very early. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You can see that at the result!]] Mrs Glavischnig, it has not been done in environmental policy with the constant insecurity of people outside, as you do. They have criticized the last Federal Government for its environmental measures. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Right!]] – Do you know who the environmental programme was negotiated with in the last period? With you! With the greens! We then took this negotiation result one to one in the coalition pact with FPÖ/BZÖ! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Written!]] So, if you're criticizing this, you're criticizing yourself! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Unlike you, I was there!]] Take this, please nice, once to know, and be so honest, and say You do this to people, too! You are criticizing something you have to answer for yourself! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You weren't even there!]] I was there! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want prosperity for many, we want social security for all – we need a strong economic location to do so, we need economic growth. Our economic growth in Austria is thanks to God – thanks to many good economic policies in order. Industrial production has increased by 40 percent in Austria over the last 15 years. At the same time, however, the emissions of industrial gases have fallen by 20 percent. There can be no better evidence than these two figures for the success of environmental policy in Austria. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's not a miracle either, because we've done a lot: Record budget – the Federal Minister has already mentioned it – for climate protection projects, landfill regulation, which, for example, reduced methane production and methane emissions by more than 40 percent. We have introduced truck-road pricing, carried out an ecologicalisation of the tax system. We are implementing the Biofuel Directive prematurely, long before the EU tells us to do so. We have also implemented a mega programme in the new government programme: The efforts in the field of renewable energy sources are being reinforced; we want to reach 45 percent of renewable energy sources by 2020, 80 percent in the field of electricity production. We even want to increase the use of alternative fuels to 20 percent. Of course, we also need an agreement with the population – not everything can do policy. In the area of mobility, the biggest problem lies. In the field of Today, there is the largest increase in CO2 emissions. On the other hand, everyone can do something, and I really want to start a call here to all the people in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek: First of all to the Minister for the Environment!]] It's not just a matter of budget and politicians. We do a lot of things, but it is also the responsibility of every individual and everyone outside, the responsibility of you, which you may now watch on the television screens or otherwise pursue the debate. We can all do something, and we should all do something! A comment, Mrs Bayr, on investment in the country or abroad. I mean, as well. It's clear: There are many countries that are much worse in their energy efficiency, in their efficiency in terms of CO2 than Austria. There, every euro used is much more effective in improving the emission situation than we already have at this level. I therefore believe that it is very correct that we also take money into our hands and support projects in which, by the way, many Austrian companies are involved repeatedly abroad, because we can achieve a multiple improvement in the environmental situation with every euro we use. Climate impact is not a national problem that keeps us at borders. So it makes a lot of sense to continue our efforts to protect climate in the country as well as to support projects abroad in which many Austrian companies are involved. Together we will manage to achieve our admittedly high climate change targets.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3360	The next item is Mrs Dr Gabriela Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3385	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers, especially on the part of the ÖVP, have also stressed the importance of Austria. Mr Kopf, you pointed out that the Austrians should make a personal contribution to improving the climate balance. You made an appeal here. People are supposed to drive less cars, was their appeal. Mr Minister, you yourself said that the transport sector is one of the most difficult things to achieve the Kyoto targets. I ask you now – yes, of course I see that! [[Abg. Head: Don't you see that?]] But I tell you, Mr Kopf, if the individual people are willing to change from car to public transport, then unfortunately they experience their blue, their black, their red miracle every day. I'll tell you. If it's about finally driving the train to work, then maybe it's too late, then maybe there's no space, then there's trouble with the ticket machines, then there's x obstacles. When it comes to providing attractive public transport across the board, you have organized a string concert in the past period. Look You yourself after: The relevant legislative text would have provided for at least €70 million for public transport to provide the federal states with good bus concepts. And what did you do? – You didn’t spend even €7 million on it! This is your personal appeal to the Austrians, as measured by what you provide to people in an alternative way. And that's where I'd like to use it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Certainly, everyone has to do something, but first and foremost we have to make it politically possible for people to have changeover opportunities, to make greater use of conversion opportunities towards eco electricity, that they have transfer possibilities in the transport sector, that they have conversion opportunities in the energy supply, that they have conversion opportunities in the use and thermal renovation of their home. – There is no front and back! There are no millions! You will only be put something as a plan for the future and so on in the room. I now bring you a very concrete concept, then to your appeal to the individual people: We want to do something in the transport sector. Here we have a doubling of the negative, climate-disturbing exhaust gases since 1990. The air-conditioning backpack of the passenger car is twelve times heavier than the air-conditioning backpack of the train or public transport. We really need to do something here! Here we pay more than 1 billion pönales, just because we have a cheap fuel tank compared to others. And what we're supposed to do, I'm going to show you on my board. We Greens have developed the idea of a mobility card for every person in Austria. The mobility card works like a credit card: You don't have a sloth anymore when you automate, you don't have to do it anymore, you get the optimal rate charged. Just as every person in Austria has an e-card, he should also have a mobility card and thus be able to use and use public transport without barriers. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This mobility card must be implemented immediately, Minister! Her bioathanol plan, Mr. Minister – plus 10 per cent in 2010 – does not help any counterpart at all, because the gasoline will be suutous – with and without ethanol! The ethanol plan even harms consumers because it goes against growing areas for food. Read the paper! It's right in there. Talk to the hosts! They're afraid everything's getting more expensive, including sugar: Sugar, a flood product that could be rationed if we re-polate too many areas towards bioathanol, towards energy plant for the transport sector. That's why I'm for the concrete alternative: We need the public. Thank you, Mrs Bayr! We need barrier-free, good access and work together on constructive concepts that are truly sustainable!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3443	The next Member to speak is Mr Ing. Hofer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3465	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! I think the bioathanol plan is all right. The criticism is not really appropriate. Because look at this: They used to grow oats for their horses and thus ensure mobility. We do nothing else in this context. What we must recognise, however, is that in recent years we have not done what would have been necessary to implement our own objectives under our climate change plan in order to actually achieve our Kyoto commitment. I have always felt that the Federal Minister did not believe in ever achieving these goals. Austria has now reached an increase in CO2 emissions from US climate protection. Now we have very good goals in the government programme, but we are missing the way to achievement. How can we actually achieve these very ambitious goals? And here, for me, the case of sin committed in this high house is the Ecostrom Act. This eco electricity law will make it difficult to achieve these objectives. Look It is only the area of wind power: Since June 2006 no wind power plant has been built. This is no longer the case in this eco electricity law! There are currently 600 windwheels in Austria. If we were to increase this number to 1 000 windwheels and use 400 modern, powerful plants, we could triple the electricity demand, the generation of electricity from this sector. We could supply 400 000 new households with clean, renewable energy. So if we want to use our rich resources in Austria, if we want to use the solar power, the geothermal energy, the wind power that hydropower wants to use even more than before, we need a new law, an Austrian renewable energy law according to the model of Germany. That would be the right way for Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are also ways to save energy. It is also in the government programme that more attention will be paid to the passive energy house standard from 2015. I say that every new house that is being built today and is not built according to the passive energy standard brings Austria away from the goal of energy autonomy. We must therefore react more quickly. We need to ensure that there is a return to a commitment to housing promotion funds, so that the housing funds are not sent from the federal government to the countries and then some of these funds are used to stop budget holes – just as happens in Burgenland, where part of the Bank Burgenland scandal is paid with these funds. We need this money to promote passive energy houses. Then we would no longer have to finance heating checks in the future! Then heating becomes cheaper for people! Therefore: Re-establishment of the purpose of housing development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We also want a tax relief for all those who choose to buy a vehicle that consumes less than five litres per 100 kilometres. I'll drive in. Three-litre car. I've only got 40 hp, but I'm very happy with it. I always find a parking lot. I really can only recommend this to everyone. For me, a very, very important matter of heart is the exit from the EURATOM Treaty. I know that there are always the arguments why EURATOM is also important to us because it invests in the safety of nuclear power plants because it invests in modern fusion technology. I'll tell you: These investments from EURATOM concern only new nuclear power plants, and we do not want new nuclear power plants. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For the merger, it must be said that radioactive material is also highly affected – to a high degree! Although the half-life is by far not as dramatic as in nuclear fuel rods, this material is affected. This technology will become real only from 2050 – if at all! – be commercially useful. Currently, we gain 57 percent of our energy needs from renewable energy. The target of the Federal Government is 80 percent. 78 per cent we must achieve if we want to satisfy Brussels. I am therefore surprised that there is a letter from the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where it says that this objective cannot be achieved. You know, energy policy and environmental policy or climate policy, these are two sides of a medal. We must simply summarize these two areas! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I am convinced – and I conclude with that – that a people who have built this country out of the ruins of the Second World War is also able to make energy autonomous with the existing resources of Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3568	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3589	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not wish to criticise your goals that you have taught us today, Mr Federal Minister. Actually, as an Austrian patriot and as a politician looking to the future, you have to say: Yes, these are very ambitious goals. In a comparison – also as an Austrian patriot – I wish Austria would be a football European champion next year. It is similar to that that the feasibility can be estimated. I'll give you the right, though. These are ambitious goals. Although we do not yet know how you want to get there, especially with regard to renewable energies, we take note of this. We also see climate protection as necessary. This is a commitment to the next generation, to hand over a functioning, a more life-worthy environment. Finally, climate protection for us is also a concept of home protection, in a globalized world to protect the resources of our home country Austria accordingly. This also includes home protection. And that is why it is necessary to promote investment in research and development and to do more and no less. The famous World Bank economist Nikolaus Stern said only a few weeks ago in a much-remarked study: 1 per cent of the gross social product is needed to counter global climate change, but up to twenty times to remedy the damage of this climate change if nothing is done. – Therefore, climate protection is of course a problem for all of us. But one thing – and I would like to draw the Greens to the fore – is certainly not climate protection, namely a hort of the famous and now germinating and modern eco-populism, Madam President Glawischnig. This is certainly not climate protection! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What do I mean by that? – That, for example, some of the political movements of climate change also see a bit as an alibi protection for green policy, which is now being lived in all parties. You do not have a single right to represent climate and environmental policy. All parties take care that this happens. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, then do something!]] What I am opposed to and do not like is that under the motto of “climate protection” people are being played out against each other and are dealing with an exaggerating ban policy that is not at all necessary. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] For example, if we discuss car transport, public transport, individual transport, we cannot Your only approach is as follows: Away with mobility, away by car and as many taxes as possible on driving, increasing the oil tax and increasing the vignette! – This is not an approach of very progressive, forward-looking climate protection, but it is backward and directed against climate protection because people do not go along, Mrs Glawischnig. [[BZÖ and Abg. Dr. stupid.]] This starts with your 100 km/h zones on straight, four-track highways – like at Linz, where it is so beautiful. There you can see the 100 km/h board and in the background the smoking Voest. Wonderful! That's a typical picture. Only: Nobody's going to go with you! People will not believe it, especially those – and I come to Mrs. Moser – who depend on the car, on the car: namely the commuters, hundreds of thousands of commuters in Austria, who thank you very much for trying to raise the cost of driving by tax increases! There we will be the lawyer of these commuters and represent them accordingly here in the House, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Climate policy is not a proficient tax increase policy, but a wise, balanced mix of motivation, ultimately also from incentives and promotions. That is why we will be introducing a motion for a resolution today, a twenty-point package for a live-worthy Austria, which is exactly what is going on in this direction: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: bring in 160 speed!]] It is not harassment, it is not bans, but suggestions, for example, as is the case in the Scandinavian countries. If there are high emission values, then there is a flexible design such as public transport and its tariffs, then at once the use of public transport is free. Recently, an example was shown in a documentary on television. That is the crucial question we see. That is why we are going in this direction towards a targeted promotion of environmental protection measures, as we see in Carinthia, for example. Carinthia is a model country – you know, a BZÖ-regulated country – where we already have 43 percent share of renewable energy! [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Yes!]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: The worst country!]] – It is 23 percent across Austria. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Every year there – this is a lot for such a small federal country! – €10 million in funding for solar energy, for example, is financed by a cost of building solar plants of up to €5,000, which is a significant relief and an incentive for the construction of solar installations for which we are very much in favour. This is a policy of incentive! That's a smart promotion policy! Therefore, Carinthia is also a model country and leader in the respective sector as regards solar energy and also on renewable energy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] Minister Pröll, 8 October 1988. Please take part in a European Council on 27 March. I think it is necessary to take a close look at these points that we are proposing and to draw a close to sustainable and active climate protection in Austria without shock and with incentives.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3729	Next, Mr. Ing. May. Kuzdas. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3750	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! I would like to start with a quote from a top manager: Environmental protection is an opportunity and not a burden that we must bear. – I think we agree that environmental phenomena in recent years – El Niño, Flood 2002, extreme heat periods, winter without snow, hurricanes over Central Europe – have no doubt that the climate is changing. There is an exorbitant difference between the damage caused by climate change and the prevention measures – that has already been mentioned by my previous speaker. Prevention is better than treatment! Late – much too late! – the states have come together to negotiate the global climate. One of the results was the Kyoto Protocol. It is questionable whether these objectives are actually sufficient to achieve sustainable improvement, but it is at least a start. There are large concerns in Austria: Road transport – and especially the “tank tourism” – industry and electricity generation. What we need is not only policy measures, but also social rethinking – a rethinking in dealing with valuable, especially fossil resources and a rethinking on energy generation. Policy can make a lot of things for housing, for example. And this is also what this German government has in mind: for solar plants – I do not see Carinthia as a model country, because solar plants are widely and intensively promoted throughout Austria – and other areas that have potential for the future, such as photovoltaics. There are no uniform promotion directives. I looked up yesterday on the official homepage of the state of Lower Austria: There are promotion directives that expire in 2006, and something new is not yet to be found. [[Abg. Kainz: The best example is Lower Austria! Pioneer country!]] I call the example of photovoltaics quite conscious, because it has a great potential for the future. In our district – in the district of Mistelbach – there is an innovative company, the Photovoltaic Technique Neudorf, which already deals with this topic with over 50 employees and has so far been left by the state policy in Stich. However, the topic of photovoltaics is not only interesting for residential construction, but there are also attempts to use it for noise protection walls on motorways or for electricity generation. Second example: Use of electric vehicles. Those driving electric vehicles are still being put up as self-breaders. Nor is the support of vehicle manufacturers particularly strong. It is surprising that many car sellers and employees of car companies know nothing at all. A user of an e-vehicle recently told me: When I paid my car at the cash desk, the lady at the cash desk was very surprised when I told her that an e-car was paid. Electricity service stations are also rare in Austria. There's only 134 of them. In Switzerland, for example, there are now 800 gas stations where electricity can be used, and in Italy there are many cities where electricity stations can be found on the Central Strip. In Austria, on the other hand, there are major obstacles that prevent interested parties from buying an electric vehicle. The stock is also very small in Austria with about 600 copies. – These are just two examples that show that social rethinking is necessary. I also believe that an initiative for public passenger transport is of great importance. This mobility card, presented by Mr Moser, is good, but nothing new. We are already very, very far with it in the design. [[Abg. Oil: Where?]] The government programme of this Federal Government provides for a substantial increase in the use of renewable energy, in the conversion of households to renewable energy. In the future sector of environmental technology, we strive to double sales. In fact, environmental technology is a job engine that will be used in the next few years. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There is still much to do to save our global climate. You'll be one of me: We must be aware that we have not inherited our environment from our parents, but have been sponsored by our children. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3800	Next, Mr Grillitsch. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3822	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think the last few weeks have made it clear to us what climate change can mean: Snow shortage and hurricanes. It is sad that weather statistics are constantly confirming to us that these weather scenarios have come at ever shorter intervals in recent years, ever more violent and more regular. This, of course, has unquestionably an impact on nature. I am also saying this today as a farmer's representative, because farmers are particularly predestined to talk about this issue because they have their workshop in the wild. Ladies and gentlemen, it is our task, as I believe, not to take this issue lightly, but to think what we can do about it. You know: to blow less CO2 into the air, i.e. to consume less oil, gas and coal and ultimately use more renewable energy. Therefore, I am very grateful for the fact that the Federal Government, under Wolfgang Schüssel from 2000 to 2007, has set itself very clear targets, but also clear implementation mechanisms, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: “Clear goals”? - Of course not!]] International comparisons confirm that this path was right. Today we are the first in the share of renewable energy sources, and we are also in the first place when it comes to organic farming, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We are continuing this path! A climate fund has now been created where we can research and develop, but where we can also start a technology offensive, where we can create work, where at the same time we make a significant contribution to protecting the environment, and where we ultimately also strengthen independence and security of supply. Also with the examples we have set here in this Parliament and with Minister Pröll, where we have created the market, with the Eco electricity law, but also with the Biofuel Directive, we are, I believe, really on the right path, to benefit from our domestic potentials, which literally grow in the window, with new technologies. Dear Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, I'm telling you: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes!]] The trend change you have been addressing has long since been in place! [[Abg. Oils: Where?]] Did you sleep her, Mrs. Glawischnig? – While we are acting here in Parliament and in the government, Green has become the color of the playful hope! [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Less 15 percent!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] 20 years of opposition, never assumed responsibility, never designed – a pity that you missed this opportunity! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I think you didn't get something in Upper Austria!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We make God thanks to politics that does not cause debt to our children. In particular, we want to make greater use of those potentials that grow in our fields, in our meadows and in our forests, because we know that renewable energy sources are ultimately also a job turbo for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3929	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. You also have a speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e3951	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister, somehow makes a funny feeling here. There is a strange, grotesque discrepancy between what is at issue here, and what answers are being tried here from the government bank. I am immediately forwarding that the global climate problem will not, of course, be solved by Austria alone, but we have many opportunities. And that's also the title of this current hour, that we need not only fear the world's downfall, but that at least what Austria can do involves enormous economic opportunities. This must be realized once. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why, first of all, I do not understand the emphasis on the Greens – but that is what we are used to – but I do not fully understand this lethargy of the ÖVP. But I'll talk to you soon. Once again to describe this discrepancy: It is not only the “economist” who is now constantly turning to these topics, it is also the Hamburg “time” for those who prefer it. It is obvious that the global leaders “War again will be terror” or anything in this direction, but “Global Warming” and “Fight against Climate Change” will be the thing. And if that is the challenge, I have the impression here that everything possible will be written in programs again – sometimes not even that – but that you will otherwise give up on the blessed little and nothing. I would like to do this briefly on the basis of the government programme – and what is actually in contrast to that, essentially the instructions for action of the Wifo White Paper, and this is a political advisory institution of the best instance and the very first kindness. The representation of this discrepancy simply shows the gap between what you believe you should do or what you explain here, and what actually does not happen. This difference could not be greater. Once again to your government program. In order not to quote the “economist” now, but in “SPÖ Aktuell” – the German Chancellor is just not in the hall – the government declaration and the government programme are described, as the words “environment” and “economy” in combination do not occur at all. Instead, there are half-sided concerns about how to restore cheap electricity to the industry or how to drive 130 km/h anywhere. – This is the authentic interpretation of the government programme by the Social Democrats, and that was to be feared and expected. The strangulation of the sensible measures of the Ecostrom Act was indeed an evil prelude. There you can tell what you want, Mr Environment Minister, that is what has actually been done, what has negative effects, and this is unfortunately and in advance obviously happening to the SPÖ in action. And you just have to be kept out of here regularly when it comes to really doing something – in a strange populist alliance. As I have already mentioned the Wifo White Paper: This is a clear indication of what it will be all about. – It’s also about claps and not about curds and rumbles. The real desk is the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Mr. Environment, you know that, and there one blockade after another is carried out. If it is now said that an Energy Economic Fund or an Energy Research Fund is being imposed, then we want to know first of all how it is taught. There is still a danger that it will arise due to a little intelligent fusion of compounds and OMC, which will result in the money that is obviously "circling around" in the energy industry not investing in alternative energy sources and in the opportunities of domestic resources, but in large-scale gas power plants and gas pipelines from somewhere else. This is a completely wrong attitude. I can remind you at this point that it is not only about the opportunities of domestic jobs, but also about achieving energy independence. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It cannot be that we have to wait every winter for how Putin or his successor has just been laid on or what is happening in the Middle East. On the whole, everybody understands that, you talk to the people outside the constituency: The ruble is not supposed to roll in Moscow – it is supposed to be, but not with our energy funds – but – in that case, the term “circuit economy” fits twice – the money is to stay in the region and work here. We have not only commissioned the studies of Wifo, but also TU, we ourselves have commissioned them for the Styria, and it turns out that if we march towards energy autarchy, tens of thousands of jobs alone in this state would have to be created with relatively little resources. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] My final sentence: In reality, we are dealing with a political failure, less with a market failure, and this is an inventiveness that you have to answer. And if we do not invest effectively in Austria, the initiatives at EU and global level will, of course, remain totally unbelievable – that is why: Do something!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4038	The next speaker is Mr Weinzinger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4059	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Madam President. The credibility is a problem in environmental policy, the head-redner of this debate, Mrs Eva Glawischnig, has said. - She's right. I remember: Many years ago, in the framework of my citizenship, Professor Otto König gave a lecture series in which he pointed out what was important to us. That was at the time of the Vranckky government, that is, a long time ago. [[Abg. Grill:... already invented phone!]] The phone was invented back then, yes. But already at that time, bad people have been able to see what is happening to us. Professor König has described in a plastic way how the slopes come down, how the floods can no longer be kept in the hemisphere, how the ice melts, how the water reserves are lost, how the water will rise as a whole – and we did not believe that, at the time, 15 years ago, we thought it was an immeasurable exaggeration. Meanwhile, the slopes are coming down, the glaciers are now melting, but there are floods as we have not known them. In the meantime, we are experiencing hurricanes that sweep over Europe and over our homeland, as we did not think possible. - It's all come true. For 15 years, the opposition of the government has said: Do something! For 15 years, the government has said: We're doing great, we're world champions anyway! Figures and percentages are mentioned, and figures once again, and how much money the government offers – that is, of course, the taxpayers' money – to solve environmental issues. – But nothing is actually done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: There is no such thing!]] When we started to talk about Europe and about the unification of Europe, do you think? – The three freedoms were always mentioned. [[The speaker lifts the right hand and shows the number three with his fingers.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Four!]] – For God's sake, I have shown three fingers. Is it with the left? – Three freedoms were promised: freedom of establishment, freedom of movement for money and freedom of movement for goods and services. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Passenger transport...!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The freedom of movement of goods can tell you a lot not only to the inhabitants of Tyrol, but also to the inhabitants of the Inn district. Maybe something went wrong? Perhaps we should consider whether it is really necessary to have a shirt until it finally comes for sale, up to 15,000 miles through Europe? – Because the buttons are sewn there and where else the ironing takes place, because the fabric comes from there and in another place the cheap labor force is used, children, if possible, to make this shirt. Why can't we think about putting our economy back into tighter spaces so that these huge transports are not necessary? That's something, isn't it? – A small contribution to climate protection. Lip confession Climate protection – yes, it is a lip confession. I'm the one you've quoted. Job engine of the future – I can't say that, but it's a vital need to really do something and not just talk about it as in the last 15, 20 years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4145	The last speaker within the current hour is Mr Schalle. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4166	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank the Austrian media, first and foremost the ORF, for being permanently confronted with climate change through information and situation reports last week. In the government programme, I do not find any precise measures on the environment; the objectives too are dirty and equipped with infinitely long periods of time. Mr Minister, I have also recorded your statements at the various television shows, but all that is said is not very accurate, too little efficient, but above all I am lacking in short-term scheduled projects and foreseeable action. You said today, there's a master plan. I hope he'll be up soon after you try to solve your problems. Especially in the field of climate protection, full use by the government is necessary to create the necessary framework conditions. We from the BZÖ, which we have vehemently insisted on measures to achieve the Kyoto objectives during the two previous legislative periods, will therefore again be putting forward a motion for a resolution today in order to help this new government so to speak. Mr Pröll, I ask you: What else needs to happen so you finally get back to active? The weather extreme and CO2 emissions that are currently taking place must also have a nose. My appeal therefore: Do not rest and seek, but continue and do! Because we are still far from reaching the Kyoto goal. In the event of non-achievement, environmental disasters are only too logical a follow-up, which in turn allow costs up to €6 billion to be expected in Austria alone in the next five years. Active climate protection therefore does not mean, for me, to submit a report once a year in Parliament, but rather to act speedily and truly. Apart from the awareness-raising of each individual to do something for climate protection, it also needs support and support. The introduction of a climate protection driver's licence would, as it were, promote a life-long action from kindergarten age. Promote the following: There is a need for concrete uniform and random support measures to achieve a further CO2 reduction, whether through support programmes. the old house renovation in terms of thermal insulation or window and door densities, or the respective type of heat and electricity generation through the conversion to renewable energy. I have talked to many people who would immediately be willing to switch to solar systems, but the costs for this are too high. This includes an Austria-wide uniform funding programme. Sustainable fine dust control can only be achieved through targeted and promoted measures, for example through the free use of public transport – at present, I believe, only partially implemented in Carinthia and Styria, as well as retrofitting with diesel particle filters, but also the use of biodiesel must be promoted. Mr Pröll, I ask you: Where is the reforestation of wooded forests? Are you sure you know about the studies on forests and climate protection? You only need to drive through the Styria with open eyes and you will see that for years no longer has been farmed up! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Our 20-point programme for a life-worthy Austria is also a job engine for the future. It is clear that Austria as an EU member must enforce its position in the EU. Mr Pröll, you are also invited to do so. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Of course, Austria has to think and act for itself. Climate change is also a world problem, however, where only a real co-operation can lead to success. And success for me means leaving an intact environment to the following generations. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] Mr Hofer von der FPÖ: Your plan to distribute the DVD to the schools or to make it available to them is certainly a great idea, but first, let's give the Minister of State the book of Al Gore "An Uncomfortable Truth" so that he knows where it goes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4276	The duration of the current hour has expired. The debate is closed. [[12:18:16]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4298	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4441	Before entering the agenda, I shall inform Mrs Mag. Stoisits requested that the Constitutional Committee report on the application 90/A(E) concerning Carinthian local panels be subject to a period of up to 6 months. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. This short debate will take place after completion of the agenda, but at the latest at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4467	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4492	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 6 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 90 minutes, green and FPÖ per 72 minutes and BZÖ 36 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. [[Abg. Scheibner: Madam President.]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal... [[Abg. Scheibner: To the Rules of Procedure.]] The vice-president, Herbert Scheibner, spoke on the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4548	Madam President. I do not know this agreement in terms of minute allocation. I also do not know on which Rules of Procedure they are based, because according to § 57 para. 5 can be limited to no less than 60 minutes in the overall speaking time of a club. So far, they have kept it that way, and I assume that this will continue to be the case in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4572	Mr Klubobmann, we are immediately looking at what has been agreed in the Presidency, and that is exactly how we will do it. I am going to interrupt the session briefly in order to be able to clarify this question.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4603	Ladies and gentlemen, I will resume the interrupted session. We were able to eliminate the ambiguities. A false table has been used for calculation. I regret this circumstance and apologize for it. I note that according to a previous Presidential Protocol, the minutes per group have already been agreed in the case of 6 'Vienna hours', and we have now also used them in the calculation. That means in concrete terms: The SPÖ and the ÖVP each have 84 minutes of speaking time, greens and FPÖ per 66 minutes as well as the BZÖ 60 minutes. – This is also the agreement of the President. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:29:14]] 1. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 95/A by Dr Josef Cap, Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Federal Ministry Act 1986 (Federal Ministry Act Novelle 2007) (22 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 94/A by Dr Josef Cap, Fritz Neugebauer, colleagues on a Federal Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act (23 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4680	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. That is what we are getting to the debate. The first to speak is Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4710	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to comment briefly on three points: firstly, on the Lex Molterer, which is contrary to the Rules of Procedure, second, on the Federal Ministry Act, which is not limited to functional purposes, and thirdly on a current case of a most serious human rights violation which, in his opinion, is facing a Member of this House. First of all, the Constitutional Novel. In short, Mr Lopatka should also have the opportunity to represent Mr. Vice-Chancellor Molterer, Ministry of Finance. Conversely, State Secretary Matznetter should have the opportunity to represent German Chancellor Gusenbauer. In principle, the Federal Government can regulate this, as it would like, it is an event law par excellence. Vice-chanc Molterer seems to have forgotten that he has no “own” – under quotation marks – State Secretary, none of the ÖVP, but only one of the SPÖ in the Ministry of Finance, so that one has tried to regulate it in this way. Ladies and gentlemen – this comes from the fact that if you want to regulate this kind of husch-puche at night – please note – from the SPÖ as well as from the ÖVP – that this constitutional provision is contrary to § 19 of the Rules of Procedure of this House. [[In the case of the Greens, the BZÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] § 19 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council states that State Secretarys may take the floor only in the absence of a member of the Federal Government to whom they are attached, when they are present in agreement with it. Let me take the floor. Of course, they can always participate. Today, too, a large number of ministers and State Secretarys are taking part in the meeting and may take part in the debate in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. But the constitutional provision you decide today is clearly contrary to § 19 of the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure are not a paper, but also subject to a two-thirds vote in this House. I expect from the government groups that they will immediately give the House a clarification of this matter, because it is not possible for us to have two conflicting laws, both with two-thirds majority in this House of SPÖ and ÖVP. [[In the case of the Greens, the BZÖ and the representatives of the FPÖ.]] The rest of this point, which concerns the rights and duties of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, is going well. Second point: the Federal Ministerial Law Novelle. Well, that reflects coalition acrobatics, how the interests lie in detail, without prejudice to functional purposes. I would just point out, for example, that the fragmentation of research agents who have already been accused in the last period is being further corrected instead of being corrected, now there are five ministries instead of four, and that, on the other hand, one is looking for responsibility for the integration of immigrants and immigrants in vain. There seems to be no one responsible at all, even if some point is in the government programme. And so on. Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Club will comment on this and justify the rejection of this point by us. Now to the third point: A Member of this House claims serious human rights violations to him. If almost the entire federal government is gathered here and we are fully gathered here in the house, then, I think, you have to take this very seriously. Mr Strache compared the media coverage of him with the "storm". He said she reminded him of the “stormer” style. Ladies and gentlemen! The "Sturmer" was a German weekly newspaper from 1923 to 1945, published by Julius Streicher. The “storm” was a special class anti-Semitic het page, as we all know. I quote only very briefly three editorials, one from September 1938, in which Jews are called “bacillus” and “Pest”. I quote literally: The Jew is “a blackmailer, an enemy, an evildoer, a spreader of sickness that must be destroyed in the interests of mankind. ” - Quote. Other articles also point out that “after the destruction of world Judaism” the “Jewish problem” should only be considered solved. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Madam President! On the matter! What does this have to do with the Ministry Act?]] - I'm getting to the point. I tried to explain this to you. A member of this House claims serious human rights violations against him, and I take this very seriously; the comparison with the “storm” and Austrian media and our behaviour thus implied. Second quote: “A judgment must come upon the Jews in Russia, a criminal court that prepares them the same fate that every murderer and criminal must expect: Death penalty and execution. The Jews in Russia must be killed. They must be eradicated with stump and stalk.” – Is that enough as a characterization of this paper? In the Nuremberg trials, Julius Streicher, the editor of this newspaper, was accused of crimes against humanity, was convicted, sentenced to death, and executed in 1946. Mr Strache is not present now, but I ask him and I ask you, Ladies and gentlemen from his club: Either Mr. Strache is serious about this or he doesn't mean it. If he's serious about this comparison, I'm just expecting a call, a big J'accuse against the media in this country, a call for help par excellence. And all of us in this house would have to stand behind him if he was attacked in the style of the “storm. ” And I think none of us would be too good for it. I expect this to happen: not only a call for help to the Minister of Justice, to the Minister of the Interior, to the Federal Chancellor, the Vice Chancellor, but to all of us! And he'd get this help. But if he doesn't mean that he's making a comparison here, by the way, the media coverage in Austria reminds him of the style of the "storm" – what is that then? What's that? Is Mr. Strache the “little Jew, ” who is“ released for extermination, ” who opposes the“ storm ” powerlessly? What's that? – I consider this to be the most tasteless, tedious version of an attempt to stylize myself as a victim! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you want to condemn him to death now, or what?]] I expect Mr Strache to apologize in an appropriate way! But I also expect my colleague Cap, who will talk about me, for example, to say whether this is also a sin of youth, a folly of youth. – That was what Mr Strache did yesterday, Mr Cap! I also expect the Federal Chancellor to express himself in an appropriate way on this case. This is not a comparison that is drawn here, but: This goes into the market of self-understanding democracy, I think, and it was not a slipper 20 years ago. That was yesterday! I don't expect any abuse or harm like in the last few days. In any case, we, the Greens and I will not be satisfied with it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4792	Mr Klubobmann, I have to say at this point that you have not spoken on the subject, not with a syllable. I will now try to be balanced in the debate, because I should have interrupted you too. Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4819	Madam President. High house! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, you didn’t read my press release yesterday, I also criticized this “stormer” comparison – and there’s nothing to add to it. There goes the accusation or the call that one would not have said so, really into emptiness. I also pointed out in this yesterday's issue that the words have to be measured on the acts, and that was then also brought to the "ZiB2" – you will also have noticed this if you have looked at "ZiB2". I therefore have a detailed opinion on this point, as I believe. However, the issue we have on today's agenda is the Federal Ministry Act. This regulates the division of work between the individual members of the government. I think – and this is discussed here in plenary – that the way in which a new government gives itself the division of work is also an expression of the majority relationship as expressed on the day of the National Council election by the Sovereign, by the elector. It is also, of course, an expression of how two coalition partners have come together in the negotiations, which have decided to organize the division of work, the thematic division for the benefit and for the benefit of the country. I think it is positive that it is a Parliament's right to discuss it here and ultimately decide on this division of work – just as it is very, very positive and an expression of democracy, that here in the House there is also the sovereignty of budget, of funding, by the budget debates taking place here and deciding on the government budget. This is, of course, a delicate balance to be taken into account here, a delicate balance between the two government parties and their members in the government, but also a delicate balance between the executive and the legislative. And we always want to look very closely at these, because we believe that it is important that this Parliament is democratically involved in these decision-making processes as far as possible, that the government fractions are, of course, – but that is to be clarified in the inner relationship – involved in these process of making opinions and decision-making on the basis of the Government Convention. At the same time, we want to make sure that the rights, opportunities, but also the dealings with the opposition parties are improved here and that much that was perhaps common in the past is no longer happening here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why you're sending only the Secretary of State!]] Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler, I have now studied your application for the history of representation, which you have kindly distributed to the clubs, and may tell you: You're a little spiritual in the government! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler shakes his head in no way.]] It has now changed a lot: For example, we are very sensitive about the question of representation. We attach great importance to the fact that the member of the government concerned is largely present here if there is a parliamentary action. Of course, there can be a situation – for example, due to membership of the European Union et cetera – where representation is necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it now!]] I know. [[Abg. Scheibner: There is nothing to change!]] But we already attach great importance to the fact that this representation is guaranteed here in the final effect. Now I would like to refer briefly to the discussion in the Constitutional Committee. I welcome the criticism that in the future we should try to ensure that, when templates come, these arrive in time for the study by the opposition parties. I admit that this time it has not succeeded in this perfection, but we want to make an effort in the future that this is possible. But, of course, the spirit of government cooperation is important, and the spirit of government cooperation is a question to be answered not only in the strict sense of political content but also in response to whether there is a team structure, a team character, whether the individual ministries, where there are special points of contact that are different from the two government groups, find themselves working together so that there are results with which we can be proud of the plenary and present the same. I believe that this is important, and it should also be different, and that is why we will now try – we will see if it succeeds – to develop a new coalition here. "Coalition-new" means that the mistakes of the great coalition, as they had certainly occurred before 2000, before 1999, are not to be repeated. This includes dealing with each other, a functioning team structure, a functioning information system, but also a conflict culture that is designed in such a way that every conflict, every difference of opinion for the benefit of the country and for the benefit of the people who work and live here, is implemented, that there is not here a mere dispute culture and a mere conflict for the sake of the conflict. – These are loud things that, as I mean, are very, very important and where to focus. I would like to express with great pleasure that it has succeeded in carrying out a competent concentration in the field of culture. I believe that this will be for the benefit of the cultural creators, the country of culture Austria. This can be seen by looking closely at the division of work. If it is really tried to make full use of those points of the Government Declaration, which may not have yet been formulated, and on those points of the Government Declaration in which there is a need for working groups or expert groups to do so, then I believe that, in the course of the work in the committees, but also in the committees in Parliament, we really achieve a useful implementation for the country. The same applies, of course, when it comes to the budget being drawn up, where it is also a question of the country's real benefit. So I'm hopeful that from these principles, from this orientation, we're trying to start the work. There is also the following: We will be able to measure our actions! Those who will measure us will be both the High House and, in particular, the population. I think we are well advised when we try to make this project useful and useful for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4890	Next, Mr Magistrate. Stadler. 10 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e4912	Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, on this soap we don't climb you: If you do not have more to say on this ministerial law and on this constitutional abuse, as we believe, than you have said today from this Rostra, and therefore look for another subject, this is your problem and the problem of your group. The fact that we are all responding to this statement in order to impose the debate on us by you does not take place, you can forget that, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: We would have been interested in you!]] You can forget that! You have other options, according to the Rules of Procedure, if you want to have a serious debate. That's not how we start this – under the abuse of the Rules of Procedure! I remember your words when you reminded us – like Mr. Professor! – while we were still sitting, everyone urged that we should not abuse the Rules of Procedure. – Today you have provided a debated example of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Not at all!]] Ladies and gentlemen, but now on the matter itself: One could take some humor with this federal government. That we have a Minister of Defense, the Civil Service, you take it with humor. The fact that we have a family minister who doesn't like children is to take it with less humor. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's absolutely unfair! That's not true at all! Take it back!]] Ladies and gentlemen, you can read that! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Take this back!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, when the big coalition presents itself here for the first working session, you are going to pass the Constitution... – Mr Klubobmann, you have the opportunity to correct it. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Take this back!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Take this back, Mr. Deputies!]] You can read this in books. But if you, ladies and gentlemen, pass right at the first working session on the Constitution, then the end is to humour, because what you are doing here today is that for the first time you are writing the great coalition into a constitutional provision. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Take this back!]] Even earlier coalitions have not dared to write into the Constitution a system of representation based only on the distrust of two parties that must form one another government, because there is no other coalition majority and because no majority has come about. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first real case of sin! Mr. Cap, you have sworn that you will do differently. – This is the first fall of sin against the federal constitution! Because you are sluggish against the Federal Constitution, where two State Secretarys are to represent each Minister and Chancellor, which is so far not in the systematics at all – you know very well – because you are already sluggish there in closingness, this is also a contradiction to the Rules of Procedure. Mr Van der Bellen has the following right: It does not correspond to the provision in § 19 of the Rules of Procedure. This means that, if this provision remains true, we will have here in the future State Secretary, who may not be present here, who may represent here, but who may not say anything. Look, you can make the whole thing easy: You do not need to adapt the Rules of Procedure to your great coalition, but simply do not do so today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The only one of these representations, ladies and gentlemen, is the abuse of large-scale coalition power. Mr Cap, you said you did differently. – They do it the same as before! This is the first case of misuse of great coalition power, and it promises nothing good if you continue to do so. If you had already wanted Mr. Lopatka to represent Mr. Molterer and Mr. Matznetter as Chancellor, why did Mr. Matznetter not become State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery and Mr. Lopatka at the Minister of Finance? This would have been quite simple, since it did not need this representation. Or do you not even trust each other so that the Lopatka has to look after the Chancellor of the Federal Republic and Mr. Matznetter on Mr. Molterer? – This is great coalition logic, we know everything, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Hornek:... Street!]] But now that you're still constructing a constitutional abuse, that's a strong piece! [[Abg. Hornek: Watch your fingers!]] I recommend you, ladies and gentlemen, before you get mediocre and run into the knife, just a little study of the federal constitution. The Federal Constitution appears in Article 78(1). 2 and 3 presuppose that the Secretary of State is in a mandate with the Federal Minister to whom he was admitted. So we will now have the bizarre situation that we will have State Secretary here in representation of a member of the government, who is not even entitled to refer to this member of the government. This means that the guidance chain and thus the political and constitutional responsibilities chain is broken through. We will have State Secretarys here who are not at all responsible for the constitutional responsibility of the member of the government to represent them here because they have been assigned to a very different member of the government. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, this can also be understood by someone from the Federal Farmers' Association if I refer to you. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: What is this?]] [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: This arrogance is not superior! That's unheard of!]] It's so easy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Further violent calls to the ÖVP.]] Yeah, we know all that. Look, the union officials are silently affected because they know exactly that it is your distrust of the red half of the empire. That's the whole background! [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] This regulation you are calling for today is the “black distrust” against the “red budget policy” you fear. That is why, before he became Federal Chancellor, the Federal Chancellor had to sign a declaration that he did not affect the finances of the “most beautiful finance minister of all time”, ladies and gentlemen. As you still do not trust this, you now need to write a mutual control and representation system into the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. That's what I call abuse of the Constitution! This is more difficult than the attempt that Mr Van der Bellen has tried in a continuation of the debate today. This is an abuse of the Constitution! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Abuse of the Constitution at the beginning of a major coalition is very difficult, Mr. Federal Chancellor out of service. You as a clubman could have handled this differently. If you do not trust your “compulsory partner” then there are other ways of establishing control. But please, for heaven's sake! In the past, at least the Constitution was left in peace. In the past, if the Constitution had already started to adapt to major coalition distrust, at least at the same time the Rules of Procedure had in mind. This is already the beginning of your dealings with parliamentarianism and with Parliament by saying from the outset: What's in the Rules of Procedure, we're not interested, we've made it up to each other, that's where the railway is going! The article 78 of our federal constitution is simply adapted to the coalitionary needs! Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a way of dealing which a constitutional parliamentarian can take note of here in the House. This is the central point of the abuse you are doing here today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] On the basis of this speaking time agreement, I have too little speaking time to make it clear to you... – Look, if I know that the ÖVP is upset, then I know that I am absolutely right, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grill: Too much!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This is a reliable indicator! It was still like that. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Look, all your condolences about the budget discipline are already contradicted by a fact that is discussed today: We have the vanity of a foreign minister who no longer wants to be a foreign minister. Now she wants to be “International Minister”. That's why the whole ministry has to rename itself, which costs enormous costs, and everything has to be changed, because out of vanity a minister says: I don't want to be a foreign minister anymore! – as the generations of ministers were before. Don't shake your head, that was your idea, you even said. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You even said that you invented this “glory” change. This is associated with a million effort, you know exactly! You know, if you urge budget discipline down to the last official, then you should go ahead with good example and not organize such crazy vanitys, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Although you – and I am again with Mr Cap – have sworn that you will shape this Federal Ministry Act and the division of competence in the law in such a way that there are reasonable arronded assets that there are viable ministers, you have come to science and education and have broken the agendas there into four or five ministries. – The Ministry of Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, have forgotten to list. There are also scientific competences. Not only has it been promised to the students in this country things that have then been thrown over, but now you go here and split up the important science and education field that is not open to any future, because you trust each other so much that no one alone may have the power to be alone in the future through education and science. But you are still trying to fatten ministries with competences where, if they did not have them, no one could explain why these ladies and gentlemen are sitting on the government bank and getting a salary for it. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the problem behind it! Therefore, this division in the field of science and education. They did not come up with the idea of splitting the farmers' sector or the workers' sector. You didn't trust me to do that. But the science and education sector is on the rise. And I think this is the next sin, ladies and gentlemen! I address these words to you, ladies and gentlemen of Social Democracy in particular: If you continue to be presented by the ÖVP at the Nasenring in such a way that you have to change constitutions because of the ÖVP and because of the mistrust of the ÖVP that you have to split up ministries because of the mistrust of the ÖVP, where you have already tried hard to arrange the resources of competence if that is the policy of the future, then this great coalition promises really nothing good in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5202	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. Voluntary time limit: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5224	Madam President. High house! First of all: It is interesting that MP Stadler already suspects that the coalition parties did not trust each other, and that is why they are worried. – I have read somewhere, you partyobmann don’t trust you. And I understand that, honestly said, after this speech, and very well. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's why we don't change a constitution!]] Secondly, It is a humor free zone in this area. If you, as one who claims to represent Christian values, a family minister apostrophes as those, “that supposedly doesn’t like children”, in fact – unfortunately, she says – could not have children herself, then this is an immense understatement and a naughtiness! We strongly reject that! [[Congratulations with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You should also have a little more respect, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for 200 000 farmers, whom you obviously do not trust enough intelligence. We also reject that at this point! [[New applause with ÖVP, SPÖ and the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are deciding today on a division of work of the Federal Government – the Federal Ministry Act is nothing else – and of course it is true that at the beginning of a four-year legislative period, the tasks will be re-allocated. Therefore, this is not a waste, but the question is: What makes sense? I am pleased that some essential elements are based on the proven basic concept of recent years. For example, the infrastructural agents have remained in summary: Rail, road, airspace. I think that's very, very useful. We have left agriculture and the environment in summary – a true ministry of life, where everything is included from food to air, water, rural care. The agendas of business and work have also been summarized – a very meaningful combination! Member of Parliament and Professor Van der Bellen, with all due respect, you have rightly acknowledged the language and style – I will come back to it – but one thing I would like to say to you: In 2000, they compared this meaningful combination of economy and work – two sides of the same coin – with the state of the state. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Yes!]] And there was an issue of the union union that compared this with the Nazi era. – That’s just as inappropriate! [[Abg. No, it's not!]] It is a sensible objective cooperation which is to prove itself to be effective in youth employment, full employment. And after all, there is now also a new State Secretary for Labour who will do this very well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the field of education, the cultural agendas are now summarized. I think that's a lot of fun. It would have been nice – Wittmann once demanded this, twice, 2000 and 2003 – if one had done so in research. This is now left to the fingertips of several ministries. But I'm sure they're going to try and get something positive here. Education is divided into four shoulders, which, I believe, is quite useful in order to bring something forward here together. On the State Secretary's Rule: I'm quite different from the opposition. I tell you honestly – also from my many years of practice; I have been in the government for over eighteen years: We have a completely new situation today. In the Austrian Presidency, there were 51 Councils of Ministers, formal and informal. In the German Presidency, there have been 45 or 46 such meetings so far, I believe. It's strange in itself: Under the Austrian Constitution, any Secretary of State may represent any Minister in the EU, but he cannot represent and explain, for example, here in the House, in the plenary or in a committee, what he has negotiated in the representation of the Federal Minister or the Federal Minister in Brussels, in Luxembourg or wherever. Therefore: In my opinion, if you already value sparing and flexibility, my approach would be to allow for mutual representation schemes in the interest of the team character in the Austrian Federal Government. In my opinion, this would be the right approach. We have also fulfilled the wishes of the Federal President: He receives the office for the office of Presidential Office, he receives the same representation regime in the EU. [[Abg. May. Stadler: That's different again!]] Therefore: Stop using the legend that's a "Lex Molterer"! This is a very sensible arrangement that we are making here today. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] However, with the President's permission, I would also like to speak a few words on the subject, both Professor Van der Bellen and Klubobmann Cap and Mag. They've been talking to Stadler. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Quite openly: I very much welcomed the fact that Klubobmann Street has made a distance from the NS time. I think this is absolutely meaningful and necessary, because it must be so that in Austria we speak with these dark chapters of Austrian history once and for all clear text. It can't be that shadows are left here. Of course, it is true that in this area especially among young people there is always a closeness – even today – to violence, a proximity to right-wing radical thought, to denial, for example of the Holocaust and many other things – you have to see – as well as a tendency to soldatically change and participate in combat games. That is the point. [[Abg. Oillingers: Also older ones!]] - Older, yes, too. But I think it is important that we also adopt the model function of politics and find the right words here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Some shoot at pictures...!]] And that's why I'm saying quite openly: It was late, but important to make such a removal, only: Dissociating from history is simple, that's what every government has done and any politicians to take seriously. That's quite clear. The real test, however, is, in my opinion, how we deal with these things today, what we are going to do to young people: whether we are able to reduce enemy images, whether we are able, for example, in the language, to engage in a very conflict-rich debate, but with peaceful means, to lead with democratic means, whether we are able to conjure up enemy images, or whether we are still giving up a piece in the election struggles in polarization, in the escalation. That is the crucial point. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's what I'm saying quite openly: There was too little for me. Mr. Klubobmann Strache, it was too little for me. What I noticed – and there I am also the opinion of Klubobmann Van der Bellen: In a distance from the “Third Reich”, from the neo-Nazi scene and from all these things, it is not a matter of immediately entering the counter-attack and now the Austrian media are only moving near the “storm”, or what I know! I am a good example of the fact that I had to put in a lot of things – some of them rightly – from the Austrian media scene, but also just about the thought – only the thought! – having had something to do with totalitarian regimes: Friends, that's beyond! That can't be! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of SPÖ and Greens.]] The whole house must also stand up and protect the Austrian press landscape and journalists. Mr Klubobmann Strache, you do not have to take Alfred Finz there either. I have a lot of understanding for your situation when photos of your youth suddenly emerge from the right corner of the corner. But that you suddenly want to get some photos and give the impression – and that's nothing else – that Alfred Finz would have something to do with this scene, with kiss, honey or who always, that's not possible! ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website His family was victims of National Socialism in many areas – for example, the grandmother was killed in Gugging. Do you even know what is done easily with such things?- Oh, my God! If, sometimes rightly, you feel that you are doing wrong, then consider what you are doing with such comparisons with the media, with Alfred Finz or with other things! Therefore: If so, then distance to 100 percent: from history to it, but also from current trends, which are always there, and which are not only perhaps located in a political group. Then this must be an example of how we want to deal with each other in this new legislative period. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Do not limit, talk to each other, but say what is – and not impoverish! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5410	Mr Klubobmann, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, spoke. I would like to draw your attention to Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5434	Mr Klubobmann Dr. The bowl has claimed that I trust power. Ewald Stadlernot. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I'm right about that Mag. Stadler enjoys my trust, because otherwise he would not be Klubobmann's deputy. You have to put that right here. [[Call the ÖVP: Is right next door!]] They claimed that I had generally brought the media towards “stormers” style. No, no, no, I'll put it right: I've connected a medium with this, because what happened here in diffamation, denunciation and manipulation is scandalous! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What?]] [[Abg. Brosz: Which medium?]] They claimed that a photo apparently does not correspond to the facts. It is a fact that, unfortunately, there is a photo of Mr Finz and Mr Gottfried Kussel. That's a fact. – And no more and no less I've tied up. I am also correct that I have not put anyone in a right corner, but only noted that these incredible representations are also illustratible for other people, if you want to be mean and defamation. – No more and no less.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5515	Mr Klubobmann, I would just like to remind you that § 58 of the Rules of Procedure understands something else by an actual correction. Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5539	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Estimated Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to respond briefly to the previous statement, because today there are so many critical points in the debate about the Federal Ministry Act and the government. I'm not going to conform with Van der Bellen and don't think that such an important debate – this is also about the High House – should now be overshadowed with other issues. This debate is to be held and it is to be held, I am for it, but not at the current item on the agenda. Nevertheless, two sentences to do so. Above all, the yesterday's line of defense of your clubman's stretch is to be condemned. There were these two points inside, both this “stormer” story, but it was at least equally absurd and, of course, nonsense to use ungainly other politicians a bit as a shield for their own defense strategy. I say something to you, Mr Graf and Mr Strache: I met Mr Finz. To put him in such a series now, to adapt him here and to put him near a terrible ideology, that is really unfair, because Mr. State Secretary Finz is an untadeled man, an integrated man who has not broken anything; and this must not be blamed on how you did it yesterday. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] The same applies to myself, by the way, when you showed a photo from a press conference in which I spoke about tax reforms, but I am also put in a series with some sports photos. [[Abg. Straw: Diffamating, dispensing, but even being wretched!]] – Mr Strache, considerate You yourself: It's not just unfair, it's not a defense strategy, it's damaged. You're going on yourself! You wouldn't fall out of the crown if you came out here and said: This “storm” comparison, including the list of others and the in-the-near return of others to any ideological precipice, was not meant. You could say that in a speech. Then everything would be off the table. We will certainly continue to deal with this matter. [[Abg. Strache: Only you have to do with violence!]] But what is at least as interesting, Mr Cap and Mr SPÖ President Gusenbauer, are your opinions on this. And it does not come about that today a number of Members of your group seem to have been led by yesterday's Parliament in the 'ZiB 2'. It's not even there. This probably also has a reason to be associated with it. I do not want to put anything on your mind, nor on Mr Gusenbauer. But, Mr Cap, if you and the entire assessment of this story that you have made in the last few days, the saying also applies: The location determines the position!, and although you are still physically sitting in this sector, but mentally perhaps already there, then you have to explain it even more precisely and, above all, explain to your own party friends, who obviously make a higher claim as regards the demarcation to nationalism and right-wing extremism and also to violence. [[Show more & left]] [[remaining right]] That's not all from Daddy, which can be seen in these photos. And, frankly, your statement and also Mr Gusenbauer's speech, like many people in this country, are simply too few. That was too little, is too little, and it needs a corrective position! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But now I come to the Federal Ministerial Act, which for me is nothing but what we have discussed the last time, but now it is available: a red certificate of assignment to the ÖVP, a certificate of competence, a black government under a red chancellor. One has an example of a calculation, a calculation example, namely 19 is not divisible by 2 so you go up to 20. In reality, there are 21 ministries that are occupied by 20 people. This is nothing but one of the largest governments in the history of the country in the Second Republic, one of the most expensive and largest governments in the Second Republic! Only the governments of Sinowatz and Vranitzky 1 were larger. Then you'll come. Otherwise, all were smaller, our first government for example had 16 members. You really have one of the largest governments in the Second Republic, with additional costs in the legislative period of about € 1 million alone in salaries – and I am not counting the structural additional costs, sections, personnel and infrastructure. That goes into the millions at all. First of all, you must explain to the voters that while you have not extended the competences, you have expanded the number of seats of the ministers. That's not okay. It's not been saved. This is also not okay because you are always talking about saving the citizens and writing it down in the Government Convention. Health insurance contributions are increased, fees are increased, mineral oil tax is increased. Where you need it, you will be lowered or not increased as in the care money, as in the social benefits, but the government, it will be expanded! It costs more. More money is spent here. The Minister for Social Affairs is coming here and he is already formulating a next tax increase. He wants to introduce a property tax, but he does not say how to finance it at what border and where he wants to finance it. Mr Cap and also Mr Buchinger, this is really – especially in the social field, on which I am still speaking separately – an actual capitulation advertisement in writing before the ÖVP, which you have formulated here. That also fits so well with the current Social Minister, that is a symbol. The Minister of Social Affairs – we read this today in all the newspapers – will leave hair in the next few days. I really think it's great that a Social Minister becomes a symbol of an entire political group and a party: They already had to leave hair at the Ministry of Social Affairs in the Federal Ministry Act. Their voters were obviously shaved as far as the election promises are concerned. And now the Minister of Social Affairs comes and can be publicly cut, lets the hair fall, because he has no competence at all in his department. Nothing left. The name also reveals a lot of things. That means no more Ministry of Social Security and Generations – that's gone. Social security is no longer available. Aw, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The issue of generations is gone. You must go to the ÖVP every time, Mr Social Minister, whether with long or short hair, to the Minister for Finance Molterer, to the Minister for Economic Affairs Bartenstein: Can I do all that I ever want? – Because You don't have any more skills! That is what we blame you for breaking election promises in the social area, having no more competences and therefore also throwing your claims overboard, which you have put before the election. And you can read that very carefully in the current Federal Ministry Act. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would like to come to a special point, health, because it seems that very imaginative action is being taken. It is taxed, health insurance contributions are increased. But we say we have another proposal: It should be borne in mind, especially in the case of medicinal products. That is why we will also present today an initiative to halve VAT on medicinal products. It is currently 20 percent, which is the second highest tax in Europe, only in Denmark it is higher. It is 20 percent and is intended to be reduced to 10 percent so that customers, in this case the patients, are relieved because the drug prices are too high. We are very excited about how you will be treated by the Social Democracy and whether you will give us your consent. There is also approval in the doctor's room because it is correct because we today have a state that about a meal is taxed at a luxury restaurant with 20 percent, a medicine is also taxed by 20 percent, or the food only takes place with 10 percent and here there is an imbalance. We therefore want to make a corresponding relief for the people who need it. Just like the tax reform that does not come, as does the care allowance, where we continue to support an increase. – These are all the points you have just forgotten and have not been taken into account in this ministry division. Two more sentences on this representation system. Even here, of course, we practice massive criticism together with the other opposition parties. It cannot be that there is an abuse of first order here, so to speak, of the party propaganda on the back door also being written in the Constitution. What's the background? – The background is that the Black Minister of Finance does not want to be represented by the Red Secretary of State and vice versa. This means that in the government dominant mistrust between the two parties is ultimately a pro- and party thinking, which will be written across the back door in the Constitution. I am really sorry for the Constitution, ladies and gentlemen. That can't be! And that's where we're going to fight against it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It can't be, Federal Chancellor, that you seem to be fleeing from Parliament here too. I'm glad you're here today, maybe you're also taking a position and saying: Yes, I am going to be here in Parliament in all the special actions and important matters of Parliament, and I am speaking and replying to the honourable Member, and perhaps not a Secretary of State, who, according to the Rules of Procedure, cannot speak, but who, so to speak, gives the silent observer of the government bank, but cannot make a statement at all. Perhaps you have also made this representation specifically because you are still planning many, many media gags, from the time of the public service, where I still hope that they will not take place, up to the public haircut. It takes time, it takes time. You have to invest a lot of hours. There you have to invite the media, and then you don't like to go to Parliament instead. I expect a federal government, which is present here in Parliament today, at least in part, to be present even if it is important to consult important matters of the House. I hope that you, on the part of the Members, also understand this as a matter of concern.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5631	From the government bank, Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer spoke. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5653	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The debate on the Federal Ministry Act has so far been very interesting and gives an opportunity to explain a few things that may be important for the deliberations of the House. Why have we renamed the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of European and International Affairs? - Because something's changed. Austria has now been a member of the European Union for more than ten years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is seeing essential European agendas, and it would be a misleading concept if we were to continue to consider the European Union as something foreign. On the contrary! Austria is an active member of the European Union and European policy is for us domestic policy. Every policy of countries outside the European Union is international relations. That is why it is absolutely right to make this change also in the name of the previous Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it takes account of the meaning and content, for us European policy is internal policy. That is why this name change is absolutely sensible. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Secondly, with regard to education and research: I think it's very important that this large area is on several shoulders. If we have decided that culture and art should be made together with education, because it is primarily about the connection between the education of children and young people and the pre-accession of culture and art, then it will be understood that the second major focus, namely universities and research, needs its own place of business. Now there are traditionally different research pots in Austria. I think the arrangement that has been made makes sense, namely that in the future university research is responsible for the Ministry of Science and the Ministry of Technology, because it is also about the link between the university and applied research. And economic and business research, where there are two funds, is clearly the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Technology. That is to say, we have stored the competences where there is the closest link with those concerned, and therefore, in all that some believe that one should merge everything in this area – this differentiation is probably a more meaningful one, because it takes account of the different target groups also in the research landscape. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: This is the speech of Gorbach!]] Thirdly, What seems particularly important to me is that this federal government has decided to re-establish its own ministry of women and equality policy. We all know the reports on wage development, especially for women in Austria, and are convinced that we must do something for equal wages and equal work. And that is why it is important that this government has decided to make its own ministry in the Federal Chancellery responsible for ensuring that women have a better perspective here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What I do not understand is the criticism of social policy by Mr Klubobmann Westenthal. We can do a comprehensive joint reading of the government programme, but what is formulated here in the social field is to strengthen social protection for Austrians. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also at the tuition fees?]] If only the minimum pensions have been raised to € 726, this may be a bagatelle for you, but for 222,000 men and women in our country, that means 36 € more pension per month – and they really deserve it! [[Call the Greens: That's very little!]] This is a success of this government! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is an old one...!]] Secondly, If Minister Buchinger will be responsible for drawing some of the poison teeth in the pension area by, for example, extending the long insurance scheme until the end of the legislative period and eliminating the unfair double deductions at the corridor-pension, this means a pension increase of between €50 and €180 per month for 60,000 people who will retire over the next two years! – This is social policy, of which the people who need it have something in Austria, and a strengthening of the social protection we are proud of! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: “The best system in Europe”...!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On your third comment, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler: Their proposal to reduce VAT on drugs does not lead to a reduction in the amount of patients, but is exclusively a point of reference between the Minister of Finance and social security, because most of the people in Austria are referring to medications based on the prescription fee – completely independent of how expensive the drug is. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And if you want it?]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Purpose!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You can use it! – No one will stop you from devoting that purpose!]] In other words, your proposal does not lead to a discharge of patients, but only to a shift of funds: away from the Minister of Finance, to health insurance. – That really does not work, Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I can tell you what brings something to the people concerned: ==References====External links== In January 2008, the prescription fees in Austria will be limited to 2% of the net monthly income. This means, for example, that a pensioner with 900 € net per month will not pay more than 18 € per month for prescription fees in the future. And now I'm telling you something: There are enough women and men who are chronically ill, who sometimes have drug costs of 50 €, 80 €, 100 € and more, and for which this type of limitation means a real relief – because this federal government takes care of the rights of patients in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As far as the findings concerning the new rules of representation are concerned, I would like to point out that not every constitutional change that the House decides is a constitutional abuse. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's right, but it is!]] My understanding is that constitutional rights in Parliament can be changed on the basis of a broad majority, which is necessary for this, and to call a constitutional change a constitutional abuse, I do not think it is a priority. [[Abg. Scheibner: We already know this from the nineties!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Coalition Abuse!]] If we are discussing this representation rule, you can take a second to the factual argumentation. It has already been pointed out that at European level each minister can be represented by another Minister or State Secretary. There, the close commitment of the State Secretary to a minister does not apply. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A bad example!]] Many parts of the legislation are being completed jointly at European level. And in the Austrian Parliament, it has not been possible to take a different stand here. We believe that it would actually be best if all members of the Federal Government could represent each other. But why not bring this proposal here? . I can tell you this: because it was the Members of the political groups who said that we only have more State Secretary sitting on the government bank, and therefore we cannot extend this rule to everyone. If your common wish is that everyone can be represented on one side, the political groups of the House will be free to make an amendment until the end of the debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We want the place to stay!]] You can also improve the proposals on the table. We have nothing against it, because we believe that the government is together with Parliament, is ready to defend and represent politics here. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then you can also put up a cardboard comrade! He can't say anything!]] And I'll tell you quite openly: I will come more often than you are right, Mr Westenthaler, and Mr Vice-Chancellor Molterer, too, because you do not need to be afraid! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the fifth point, I would like to point out: I find every political criticism and debate here in the House that concerns content legitimate. But at the level of personal attacks against members of the Federal Government, I find it absolutely inappropriate to get away from the leather here. We should not let this style break in at all – here I am acting for the entire federal government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen has been subject to statements by Mr Klubobmann Strache in the last few days and also yesterday, and I think it is important to talk about such fundamental questions, especially when one knows that in Austria, despite all efforts to deal with the National Socialist past, it is a little difficult for some. I believe it is important that Austria not only confesses its responsibility to what has happened, but also commits itself to drawing the necessary consequences from it. And therefore there should be no one in this House who has only any understanding of the atrocities of National Socialism, and all of us should contribute to the fact that there is never a return to such times and to such apparitions. I say quite openly: I have experienced enough in this area and know how difficult it is. In my own party, I took care that the brown spots of the past were prepared. That wasn't easy. There were people who were also politically active after the Second World War and where we were confronted with sometimes being pushed an eye or two eyes. And we have faced this challenge, as painful as it was, because I believe that in terms of one's own history, whether it be an individual or a collective, one should have a clear relationship. That is why I believe that we all have to make a common effort here and that everyone should be able, not only in terms of the history of our country, but also in terms of his own history, to draw consequences, to make distances and to make clarifications. Mr Klubobmann Strache, even if you have restricted the circle of media in Austria to a medium that is not known to me or which you have not mentioned, I would like to say quite clearly to you: There is freedom of the press and media in Austria, but there is a very fundamental limitation of this freedom of the press and media, namely the prohibition law and the law on national socialist re-activating. And if there is a newspaper in Austria that operates à la “Sturmer”, then it would be the responsibility of the Federal Minister for Justice to ban this paper. I do not know any newspaper in Austria of the usual media that would fall under the Prohibition Law, no paper that could be accused of having “storms” qualities, and therefore I am seeking to neglect such comparisons in the future in the sense of democracy and freedom of expression! They are not justified and absolutely not useful for political discussion!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5930	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e5951	Ladies and gentlemen! I can, above all, fully agree with the last of the Chancellor's words. Mr Stadler, I think your statement yesterday cannot have been more than a beginning, which in turn must follow clear words. [[Call:Strache! Street@item incidence access is by owner only]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Strache!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: It was a stretch!]] - I'm fine. - Sorry, I promised, yes: Mr. Klubobmann Strache! The problem is that your explanations lack ambiguity that you always integrate such a one-sided side and ultimately relativize everything you might have tried to say in clarifying it through really highly politically worrying attacks. As I said, I think it was a start, but you have remained guilty of many clearer, clearer words, and I can only ask you to do so. As far as the system of representation which we are actually discussing here in the House is concerned, I think that one can be quite shared about the meaning of this regulation, but I consider the debate here – or not the debate, but the subject in the debate – to be over-estimated. I can assure you that I and, I also think the Members of my group, as Members of a government party, have great interest in the fact that the individual members of the government are at our disposal here in the House, personally speaking and responding. And in this sense, I see this regulation, which we are deciding today, as an additional possibility, if this is not the case. The Federal Chancellor has just indicated this and promised you – and I have written it down before; I know him many years ago – and I think he will certainly see every opportunity to speak and answer to you himself. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Why does he go again? Then why is he gone again?]] I've met him all these years as a man who doesn't have a direct fight... – Well, he can assume that there's no attack coming from me where he has to speak and answer. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's why he's gone now!]] – So: I know he is a man who does not withdraw from a debate, a constructive criticism, a non-constructive criticism, and he, as he has said, will be speaking and replying to you in person in the future more than you love. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the Federal Ministry Act is concerned, as has already been said, we are partly concerned with redundancies. With regard to the division of work and business and business and work, I think it is with the new Minister of Social Affairs: I would also have liked to see this done in the Ministry of Social Affairs. However, I would like to point out to you that, of course, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour also applies to the field of labour market policy, as agreed by both parties in the government agreement. And there are very substantial reorientations in labour market policy agreed for us, such as effective measures to combat youth unemployment and active labour market policies. The educational resort is now divided into two departments. I believe that this is a good thing, since in the next few years there will also be two major construction sites to be worked on – two large construction sites that are really important for children, for young people in our country and thus for our society. As far as family agendas are concerned, they have now moved to the health centre. I would also have found that they would have been well removed from our new Minister for Social Affairs, but I am also very hopeful that we can work together with the new Minister for Family Affairs to achieve some important things, and I already look forward to a joint work very hopeful and optimistic.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6044	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Stoisits. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6065	Mr President. Poštovane lady i gospodo! Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank – ministers, state secretaries, the two Federal Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! I am not at all the opinion of our Federal Chancellor that the fact that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs now no longer means “Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs” but “Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs” would have some kind of force of expression in the direction he outlined it, but quite the contrary: We now have a ministry called the "Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs" and thus expressing that European affairs are a matter of, I say now, former foreign ministry – but this is absolutely not so in political reality! Then: Minister Buchinger, Minister Schmied, Minister Hahn, ladies and gentlemen, you will go to EU Councils of Ministers, European affairs will be represented in Europe's foreign affairs, which is now a political matter, because European affairs on the issues of your responsibility are yours! . The Foreign Minister also represents European fishing on certain issues, but essentially it is precisely those highly sensitive and most controversial foreign policy positions in the EU, which are hardly marked by consensus, where the EU states differ. And now, instead of focusing on foreign policy and international policy, Austria is turning the Ministry into “European and international affairs”, and this setting of priorities is still being expressed: The European is important for the foreign minister – the others we leave aside – and international affairs are secondary. That's why I don't think of this kind of renaming! And when I remember, I read somewhere that Mrs. Foreign Minister said yes: But she's still a foreign minister. Then: To say “Female Federal Minister for European and International Affairs” is first of all not very liquid, and secondly, it obviously corresponds to her self-understanding that there are very different backgrounds, where it is so much about external representation – now the word is appropriate – within the European Union. Tacheles doesn't do anyone – and that applies to all this Federal Ministerial Law! It is – and believe me, I have already partly contributed to some federal ministerial laws here, partly not decided – always expression of personal, and not now “personal” in the sense of individual to the person, but of political relations in coalitions. That's it, and nothing else expresses it! Otherwise, we would not get to the absurdity that the previous Ministry of Education, which has agendas from kindergarten to universities, suddenly does not mean ‘education’, but is reduced to ‘teaching’ – with people’s education and the like in it. The people who work in adult education institutions or participate in courses and lectures there will be difficult to subsume under “teaching” – but this is the competence of Mrs. Schmied, but who is now not responsible for “education” but for “teaching”! – That's all the result of this, I don't know, interrelationship within the Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen, now a few words about the Causa FPÖ – because it's not a Causa strache, it's a Causa FPÖ overall, what we've experienced in the last few days. And it also became Causa Gusenbauer by the way he judged it. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: That’s no “Causa” at all!]] Mr. Klubobmann Strache! If a member of this National Council, who in every new legislative period – and you only two months ago – is committed to Austrian democracy and to the democratic rule of law, says : [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: To the Republic, that means!]] I'm not a Neonazi, I've never been one and I'm never going to be one!- Oh, my God! – If you had ever been one, you would be one of the future or now, then you would have no place here in this House, and certainly not a right to speak! – This is a no-na statement! But – and that is what I give you as advice – if you don't want to get blamed for everything you ever said in your life – and be it as an 18-year-old – what you did, what you took part in, what you loved or whatever, then there's only one way to say, that Mr. Klubobmann Strache today, here and now – and there I am with Mr. Chancellor A. D., when he says that the real test refers to today's attitudes; there I am entirely asking him – even that simple sentence that is: [[ongoing calls to the FPÖ]] Yes, as an 18-year-old, I took part in military sports or defence-like events, yes, I was there as an 18-year-old – but today I regret it, today I regret it from the deepest heart! This has not been done in your distance, and that is why it fits exactly into the scheme that we have often discussed and experienced here in the National Council – and I am just saying: Tag Haider. Tag Haider: Well, if it has to be, I'm sorry – and the next time it's going on again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6151	The next speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6173	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Unfortunately, the Federal Chancellor is no longer here, but fortunately the Minister of Women, because I wish that perhaps the new Federal Government, what is going on in women's policy, will come into the present and find out a little from the polemics of the election campaign. Then: If, in an interview with the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany says that they are glad that there is now at last another independent women’s ministry, I think: Perhaps they are arrested by the fairy tale “The Emperor’s New Dresses” because they have not yet realized that the independent women’s ministry, which has been a truly independent one with health and women, was also with its own house on the Franz-Josephs-Kai, in the meantime located in the Federal Chancellery and now suddenly, without need – because it has always been called, one needs all the strength of the Women’s Minister for Women’s Work – was enriched with the agendas of the administrative reform and the agendas of the staff. – I wish you good luck, Mrs Minister, in this work, and above all, that you remain enough time and energy for women’s work! And you have said very well – at least in your interview in the “Salzburger Nachrichten” – that there has now been a standstill in women’s policy over the past seven years, and now you want to focus on poverty and employment. I should like to remind you – and perhaps you should have dealt with it a little – that in these last seven years the largest poverty reduction programme of the Second Republic has been launched, that we have for the first time granted to all women, mothers and fathers of this child care allowance – including those who were not previously employed, including the students, the farmers, the tradesmen – that we have set a foundation for an independent female pension for the first time, not as with you, in SPÖ administration periods and among SPÖ social ministers, the pension allowance of the minimum wage, but from €1 350 per month to four years – that we have already acquired their own entitlements at seven years of age. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Riepl: But there you were in the government too! There we were together in the government!]] – So the biggest poverty reduction programme in the pension, but this has unfortunately been done by you, Mrs Bures. Nor have you noticed that we increased the female employment rate by 6 percent at this time. [[Abg. Riepl: Part-time!]] In 1999, it was still 59 percent, in November 2006 64.7%, and in 2004 it was 62 percent. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] – We are seven to nine percent above the average of the European Union – but that is nothing but everything has not happened. They have also overlooked that, for example, in our programme to combat unemployment, we have made up of 300 million 100 million women exclusively for women and have thus been able to qualify 22 000 women in addition. – But you have escaped, Mrs Bures, because you were primarily concerned with the polemics of the election campaign – at the time you were also Secretary-General. But now – at least now! – you should come back to the present and perhaps deal with women’s affairs, because both will need you in your time. They have written – or at least it is in the newspaper; it is already going to be true – the efforts to make young women brave into atypical professions have fallen asleep. – Yes, have you overlooked the many programmes we have started, together with the Ministry of Research and more? In other words, many things have gone away from you, including coordination skills through the Gender mainstreaming, the gender budgeting initiatives, the initiatives against violence against women – two new emergency telephones, an appropriate homepage – especially the initiatives against traditional violence. This has never been done by SPÖ Women's Ministers before, there were no institutions for migrants! Mrs. Minister, your interview shows that you have not dealt with women's policy so far. Perhaps it was not a coincidence that you did not find the Ministry of Women, but landed in the Ministry of Health, and perhaps it is up to you and you should deal with women's affairs. I wish you all the best! It's too little – you're going to be measured by your actions, Mrs. Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6256	Next, Mr Aspock, Mr Aspock. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6278	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! As you know, I am new to this house, and as a lawyer I do not understand this “logic”: I hear again and again that “holy” laws are created, decrees, there are all things possible: provisions, regulations, two-thirds majority. And then how does the practice look? – Then the first speaker goes out and violates these laws! And the President says: Well, now I've let you talk, now I'm actually going to have to let the others break these rules too!, and then everyone else talks about it. – A “logic”, ladies and gentlemen, who do not inform me! I believe that all these statements, which have fallen next to this item on the agenda today, are actually unnecessary. We should talk about things where they are on the agenda, but things are not just talking! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am now speaking briefly on the agenda; I would like to leave a lot of time for my colleagues. – We liberals do not have the feeling that a coalition-new is coming here, we are more afraid of a coalition-old. And I think, in particular, that this cross-regulation of representation in item 2 – the constitutional problems have already been identified – is already very worrying. First of all, on item 1 of the agenda, I should like to draw up a very brief point: From the previous field of activity of the Federal Ministry of Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, family and youth are removed and transferred to the Federal Ministry of Health and Women. This will destroy the important area of generations, which cannot be in the sense of a policy for all generations and a living generation solidarity. The elderly and men's departments will be left alone in the field of the Social Ministry. The proposed name also no longer contains any reference to the consumer protection in place there. – I just hope that this does not allow any conclusion to the importance of this protection in the coalition-new or coalition-old. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now to item 2. . As you know, we have not already agreed on this point in committee either. This cross-regulation has been treated several times today and has been exposed as unconstitutional. There is another amendment which I would like to make briefly, ladies and gentlemen: If you write something into the Constitution, you should write at least semantically right – the request has not yet been submitted, but it comes from the coalition parties! ==References====External links== Point of this amendment, which will then be tabled by ÖVP or SPÖ – I don't know – the first two lines, then you have exactly the cross rule. That is the point: ‘(1) In the case of temporary prevention of a Federal Minister’ – I am now saying: Federal Minister A – “in agreement with another Federal Minister” – that is the Federal Minister B – “this, a State Secretary attached to him... with his representation...”. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that such misunderstandings have not deserved a constitution. If you write something into a constitution, then it should be clear, semantically correct German sentences.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6348	Mr Lopatka, State Secretary, spoke from the government bank. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6369	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the State Secretarys have been referred to several times in this Federal Ministry Act, and I believe that this law is a good basis for continuing the successful work of the Federal Government in recent years. This law reflects precisely the work priorities of the new government: Work priority number one: Work and business. – This is the continuation of the growth rate and thus the goal of full employment. As a second focus, the long-term protection of our excellent safety, health and pension system. It is very important and also takes into account the third point in the Ministry's law: an offensive in the field of education, in research policy. As the fourth focus of government work on protecting our internal and external security, and not least the fifth point to be able to implement an efficient state and administrative reform. And now, because it has also been addressed by the opposition, to the size of the government. Here we are standing up to comparable states. When I make Denmark with about 5.5 million inhabitants: There are 20 ministries there. When I make Sweden with 9 million inhabitants: There are 22 ministries there. It was also always a desire of the opposition, especially the Greens, to have their own women's ministry, and also a desire of the Greens to have their own ministry of science. – We have now created this with this Federal Ministerial Law, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oils: Environment?- Oh, my God!]] And one point I would also like to address, which has not yet been mentioned here: The President of the Federal Republic of Germany has had a number of wishes for simplification to be made in this area, which facilitates work and where it is difficult to understand how it has been. I would like to give you an example: If a Minister of Foreign Affairs, a Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs in Switzerland, has been in Switzerland, it has so far been the case that this Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs, who has represented him, has reported to the Federal Chancellor. The Federal Chancellor then reported this to the Federal President, and the Federal President published it in the “Wiener Zeitung”. This minister had long since returned from Switzerland back to Austria, when the whole thing had only gone the right way. - That's different now. It is true that this path has been shortened. Or: If the Federal President is abroad, he has had a representation so far. The Federal Chancellor had him to represent. It is true that we now have the same rules as with the ministers that this representation is not. Summa summarum, as a summary from my side: This new Federal Ministry Act brings through improvements, simplifications and strengthens the short way in communication.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6406	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6427	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We have already experienced several discussions about the novels of a Federal Ministerial Law. It is always interesting what views you hear there. But I think one thing is clear: ==References== There was an election on October. The Sovereign has decided. Two parties agreed: There's a government program. The Federal Ministry Act is an organisational law, of course based primarily on the efficient implementation of this programme in the interests of the Austrians and the Republic, and I assume that we should all actually agree – or at any rate – that a good policy for the Austrians should come out. That's what I'm going to assume. We should not discuss whether this is perhaps a competence there or there, because I also assume that the two heads of the party who signed this agreement believe that for people the best and the most feasible must be implemented. Therefore, it is also necessary to discuss whether we have 20 or 18 or 22 ministries. If I think only of the Constitutional Committee: There were proposals that more ministries would have become! That's what it said: Let's still share that! Or: Why is competence there? Great coalition-new also means the joint, the team. Cross-sectional matrices are everywhere we know. I assume that the work is being done here in the interests of the people, and I would also like to invite everyone – I have done so in every discussion – always to take account of the staff in the individual ministries. It is important that we associate with our public servants. Mr Lopatka referred to the fact that there are also wishes of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, and the Secretary of State also pointed out this in the Committee. I should therefore also like to make a four-party request from Mr Cap, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr President, on the report from the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 94/A by Mrs Cap, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Neugebauer, on a federal law amending the Federal Constitutional Act. The request will be distributed in writing, I assume, Mr President. The content of the amendment therefore implements the wishes of our highly esteemed Presidents, and I can explain this request in its core points. The procedure for the temporary prevention of a Federal Minister is being accelerated, which has already been addressed by my previous speaker. In particular, however, it is also regulated that a Federal Minister for Health, such as accident or illness, is no longer able to appoint a representative. Here, the Federal Chancellor, in agreement with the Deputy Chancellor, mandates his representative. As with the members of the government, the Federal President of the Federal Republic of Germany is not to be regarded as a prevention. Finally, it is foreseen that the office of President of the Presidency will be subject to the President of the Federal Republic of Germany and will appoint its staff and carry out the duties. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that there is not only a good government programme and agreement here, but we also have a well-functioning concept here as regards the novelle to the Federal Ministry Act. I also believe that it is timely and sensible to make these changes to the Constitution. I invite you to vote with us here – in the interests of our Austrians and in the interests of the Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6479	The amendment tabled by Mr Pendl, by Mr Cap, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner and Mr Colleagues, to the motion for a resolution 94/A is sufficiently supported, has been explained in the key points and is therefore under negotiation. Because of its size, I'll have it distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6592	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6613	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleague Pendl, yes – have I scared you now?, apologise, that was not my intention – it is true: A new Bun-de-Government should have in mind the well-being of the population – you said it rightfully: should, and you have stressed the “should” to do so. But the enthusiasm is ending, I have to say, if I look through the empty rows. Even on the government bank there are only a few mappers around. So, you're not really convinced of this project, I have the impression that I can understand it. If today Mr Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer has praised the social system and the health system, the increase in minimum pensions, then he has actually praised the policies of the last seven years! A federal government, which has been working with great zeal, with conviction and also with a enthusiasm, dear colleague Pendl, on this work, to work and work well for Austria! – However, this enthusiasm is completely missing. I only regret that Mr Cap is not here now because I wanted to tell him something; but perhaps, Mr Pendl, you can do it to him. I have certainly admired his attempt to bring in conviction as well. For many weeks and months, he has always kept us from the opposition, how badly we – as government parties – have treated the opposition, and he has said: You'll see, once we're here in the government, we'll do it differently! We have learned something about it since the nineties: We will treat the opposition equally, they will be involved, the applications will be handed over in time and, and, I tell you, I was really close to it – I have known my colleague Cap for many years and know that he is not allowed to believe everything because he is a dazzling rhetoric and party politician – but I was really close to saying: I think if someone says that so often and claims with such a persuasiveness – hopefully not played – then it will be true. And I thought: Let's take a look at this! Now it is so far – unfortunately! Mr. Cap is Clubobmann of a government party, and what happens now? – Now you could say: All right, often promises are made in the short term, and later on you do it differently. But this promise really did not last until the first request – that is to say, to the one we are discussing here today! It was a principle of the former Federal Government that, as far as it is concerned, 24 hours before the opposition committee were handed over the applications and the amendments. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] We have a few hours ahead of the committee – a few hours, Mr President, before the committee! – get this application through the Federal Ministry Act and through the State Secretary's rules! That is why I am surprised because I assume that the question of the division of competence between two parties has been resolved in weeks of government negotiations. Apparently not! And that's how we've been negotiating up to a few hours before the committee. All right, so... Cap – Promise broken! He then wanted to move this to the government and said that he had already addressed this at the Council of Ministers meeting critically, and it will no longer happen. Then Mrs. State Secretary Silhavy – and she is not here now – came to represent the Federal Chancellor in the Constitutional Committee, and she said what we really want, that is an initiative, that is what Members have to answer! Mr. Pendl, my dear friend! Did you negotiate this request we are discussing today? Do I really have to complain to you and to all the others next to you – the few who are still sitting inside – that you have lated this request made by you in hours of work? - I don't think so. But there's a little bit of a feeling that you don't just think the promise to bind up the opposition accordingly, but that you're still trying to sell us for stupid. That a former, long-standing Member of Parliament, hardly sitting on the government bank for a few minutes, already says: Please, what do you want, this is an initiative proposal, that is the responsibility of Parliament! – if that is the beginning of the new government in which you want to learn so much from the past, well, then good night! Then we already know what we have to expect, namely a large coalition of the nineties. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] There is still something interesting if we are already in these programmes and divisions. I really have the impression that you haven't reached the end. The last time I noticed that on SPÖ's side there was always talk of a government program with 177 pages. Now I've looked at the government programme: But these are ten pages less, namely 167 – a lot, at least a lot of lyrics and a lot of text, but not 177! I believe that even the Federal Chancellor has spoken of 177 pages. Then we said: Where are these remaining ten pages? Is there perhaps a little secret paper on this government programme that we cannot know here as Members? [[Abg. Großruck: You have included the Preambel...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Over-fucking!]] Mr Pendl, is that what it is? [[Abg. Großruck: That's where you added the Preambel!]] Or is it so – you just said that –: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!Unknown term type: "%s".? Ladies and gentlemen, we've all been here in the House for a long time, so we don't believe such excuses. You have even made the government programme the basis of a resolution here, so you are also responsible. Put these ten additional missing pages on the table once, so we really know what you're doing! Or are there still the hidden loads that you want to waste on the Austrians? What you heard now: You want to introduce wealth tax – perhaps that's already inside? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Tax on tax!]] Increases in taxes? What about the officials with the posts? Pension reform maybe? What is behind that, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government? – If you want to enter into a dialogue with Parliament, put it on the table accordingly! I do not want to repeat the criticism of the Federal Ministerial Law, which my Clubobmann Westenthaler has already practiced. 18 members of the government we had in the last legislative period at the beginning, now there are 20 – strange mathematics of the Federal Chancellor! Unfortunately, the issue of education has been separated again in science and teaching, although we have always seen education as a unity. The universities have told us again and again: Many of the problems we have in the training sector come from the school sector, and one should deal with this in one. The proportional breakdown of the research funds! A women's ministry as a title without means! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Mrs Silhavy still owes me the answer about the comparison of how many sections and departments the Ministry of Women has and how many sections and departments have, for example, the Ministry of Infrastructure, so that you can see the value here too. It is not enough to set up a ministry and appoint a minister, but the question is also: What can you do in this function? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: More than before!]] That is what we are going to look at, Mrs Colleague, just as we are looking at it with the State Secretary. The SPÖ has always been for the abolition of these “unnecessary” State Secretarys. Now we have not only as many State Secretarys as before, but now they are even raised on the sign: They're all the over-ministers now! I really appreciated the Secretary of State; I was not the one who stood up for their abolition, even before. I have always enjoyed this when the then State Secretary Wittmann came to the committee or here, in the representative of the Federal Chancellor Klima, gave his speeches. That was really like this: There the House trembled, we discussed, and there were heated and interesting debates. I would certainly imagine that in the future. But that one really considers a State Secretary to be able to be omniscient so that he knows in every department that he can speak and answer to our Members here – I do not think so, ladies and gentlemen! I don't think you believe this either, but now you decide. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With an initiative proposal!]] That, for example, Mr Matznetter can provide competent information on women's issues or on constitutional issues, or that, on the other hand, Mr Lopatka can provide information on the finances, or that Mrs State Secretary Silhavy will give us comprehensive information on financial compensation, I do not think, and nobody can. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] The Secretary of State should recognize himself in his own field, he should know his ministry and support his minister, but not work as a "Grüßaust". I say that clearly. He may not even speak – there you can also put a cardboard comrade here. This is a disdain of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. And that you don't care, I don't understand at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this sense, we say that we not only criticise, but we also propose how to do it differently, how to do it better. That is why we propose – and I am therefore going to make two requests – that the Federal Chancellor and the Vice-President should ever be admitted to a State Secretary, a true State Secretary, as we have so far had it; they also need it in the corresponding representation. Otherwise, every Federal Minister in his office should have the opportunity to appoint an official State Secretary – as is the case in Germany – or to be appointed by the Federal President. This should be a senior official – whether that is the Secretary-General or a section head – who really knows himself in the matter, who does not receive any additional Gage, dear Mr Weinzinger, but who can also be competent for us, for example in the committee, and can provide us with information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger]] This would be a useful way of representing the Federal Chancellor or the Minister, but as a Member of this House, we can also discuss with a competent representative and maintain a corresponding exchange of views. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 14 days ago you had three more...!]] If you really want to support parliamentarianism, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the SPÖ and from the government parties, then reject the present proposal and agree to our amendment! The first amendment to Westenthaler, Scheibner, I explained in the broad outlines, with the aim of introducing these representation possibilities by official State Secretary. The second amendment tabled by Mr Westenthaler, Mr Scheibner, is that: ‘The following point 24 is inserted:’ ‘A Secretary-General, or if no such one is appointed, the Head of a Section (Abs. 1) or a head of an equivalent body... may for the duration of the appointment by the Federal President with the function of an official State Secretary (Art. 78 para. 4 B-VG). § 9 applies mutatis mutandis to them. For the duration of this use, ‘only a fixed content of the amount according to § 31 para. 2 C. 3 lit. (b) the salary law 1956, as applicable in each case.’ [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's as high as...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is, I believe, a signal as we understand opposition policy: We will show the abuses you are doing here, but we will always show on the other hand how it can be better if we have the opportunity to do something. If you take parliamentarianism and yourself seriously, then think about it, read it through and agree to this proposal!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6810	The amendment tabled by Mr Scheibner has just been tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Scheibner, colleagues on motion 94/A was presented in the broad guidelines, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Because of its size, I'll have it distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e6967	The second amendment tabled by my colleague, Mr Scheibner, has been tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Westenthaler, Scheibner and colleagues on request 95/A were submitted by him, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7032	Mr Neugebauer has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7053	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can assume as well-known how coalition talks take place. First, there are the programmes, then one bundles them in resorts and seeks the appropriate personalities who can also exercise ministerial responsibility accordingly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Just like in the union!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then we occupy the positions, then you won't be elected!]] In contrast to the fear of Mr Stoisits, I say: Since the programme in foreign policy is in coordination in all European affairs cross-sectional matter through all departments, Mrs. Dr. Ursula Plassnikin has proven to be the overall coordination, and therefore the “Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs” section. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the same was also assembled in the Constitutional Committee, and Mr Scheibner has now also said this: Education, the all-encompassing concept. – After the Pestalozian dictatorship, you are without a doubt right. But what here is called “teaching” means the general education of knowledge, which is essentially done by teaching, viewing and practice in traditional form through school, therefore by teaching, and science is essentially concerned with teaching and research. That is, it stands outside the Taferl what is actually inside, and that is also a meaningful designation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What about the educational universities?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What are educational universities?]] Secondly, I would like to say: I believe that the arrangements with the State Secretary are useful. It goes too far to me personally, if I see, for example, the practice at European level. I suppose that the Federal Government will not bring back someone who will say on every occasion: Unfortunately, I must answer this in writing to you, but it will provide us with the competent ladies and gentlemen for speech and answer. The amendment tabled by Mr Pendl takes into account the wishes of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Not that every wish of the President of the Federal Republic of Germany must be fulfilled, but that he should also have the personal sovereignty over the staff of the presidency office in the future, I think that is only saxological! In the end, the new system of representation is also an administrative simplification. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to be able to replicate Mr Stadler's statement. Figl, Schleinzer, Fischler, Riegler, Schierhuber, Molterer, Pröll, many farmers' representatives in all parties and around 200,000 people who are trying to get good food to disqualify in this form is impossible! Mr Stadler does not need to apologize at all. I don't think the farmers put any value on his apologies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: Unlike you, I myself am out of the peasantry!]] For the Causa prima these last hours and days, Mr. Mag. Stadler called for humor. [[Abg. May. Stadler:... Functionary from the farm stand! That's the only difference!]] So the only humour, Mr Magister, that I still think is that it is relatively sausage for me, as Mr. Strache ordered his beer. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Then why do you talk for so long?]] But let me tell you one more thing, my colleague: You were not here when Mr Strache gave you his declaration of solidarity; you would have had to bow down to laughter – if the subject were not so serious and distressing! [[Abg. May. Stadler: I heard everything!]] I consider words like “Youth Torities”, messages from Mr Kalina towards Molterer: “Pharishment”, “hypocritical”, for a language that is certainly not adequate for the distressing situation and the reprocessing of history. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Stadler: You have a coalition!]] What I say to Mr Strache – and I have no reason not to believe him what he said yesterday – is that he needs hours and days to comment on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it should be clear to us that a clear condemnation of totalitarian systems and in particular National Socialism must be carried out without any doubt! That doesn't even allow a horrendous second!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7236	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7273	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen on the government bank and here in the house! I would like to start by saying something about the subject and put it under the motto: ‘At the beginning was the end.’ They of ÖVP and SPÖ begin the great coalition with a standstill and distrust, with the standstill and distrust of the old great coalition, the distrust in the form of the State Secretariat's regime in the constitutional rank, and the standstill is expressed in the ministerial organization. And then Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel tells us: That's great, business and work in a ministry, crazy! What progress! We have experienced this “progress” for seven years: what it means when employment agendas, if not only labour administration, but also labour inspection, worker protection control among the imperatives or directives of the economy, and not in the context of social security, social agendas, workers and employees. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Initiative proposal of the SPÖ!]] That makes a clear difference, ladies and gentlemen. We have now experienced for seven years what it means when the environment and agriculture are grouped together in a place. Of course, there are conflicts of interest when environment and agriculture... – No, Mr Grillitsch? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] – Well, of course, you dispute these conflicts of interest, which exist between agriculture and a genuine, committed environmental policy, I understand! You will benefit from this combination and this summary in a place! [[Abg. Grill: Give examples! You don't know anyone! Give examples, Mr. Ollinger!]] But what we would have liked and where I have believed somehow: Perhaps there's an idea behind that?, is that what Mr. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer said: The SPÖ has therefore taken a number of places, because the future is expressed in them. [[Abg. Grill: Give an example...!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There is no SPÖ plan...!]] Research Ministry: A Ministry of Infrastructure and Research. This brings together research activities in a ministry. That was the announcement. What do we have now? – The research is in three ministries – on five, thank you! – that is, even worse distributed than before, and that was bad enough. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Five!]] And that should now be future-proof and the hope for the future? Social and consumer protection: Mr. Federal Minister, it is bad enough that the working days are not stored in the Social Ministry. Let me know what a deeper sense it is that pensioners, disabled people or care and consumer protection should be presented as the Ministry of Social Affairs in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's true!]] What is the common position of these agendas? What makes sense and perspective? And what makes this ministry, which has already been heavily deraged, viable? Women's Ministry: My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, you say that is now your own place of business. We already had our own place of business; only a little more consideration would have been appropriate. For example, I would have found it exciting to put together women and the economy instead of leaving the Ministry of Women without any competence without any material equipment in the Federal Chancellery. But be it. One can be of different opinion, well sure, but explain to me, ladies and gentlemen: What is the overall basis for this division of ministries for a sustainable approach, an idea of how to continue, how to set priorities in Austrian domestic policy? Finally, I shall now come to the point on which I, of course, also want to comment. I put it under the motto: Actually, I'm quite different, but I'm so rare. This has been said by Ödön von Horvath, and it could apply equally to Mr Strache as well as to Mr Schüssel. I have found the speech of Mr Schüssel shining today, but he has forgotten what he has now brought in and what I share almost continuously, to apply to his last seven years of coalition with the FPÖ, to Mr Haider and to other inconceivable incidents that have happened over the past seven years, where we would have wished for and asked for these clear and clear words by a Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, Mr Strache is not here now. – I find it fascinating, and I have had to touch my head again and again: Mr Strache, as he speaks in there, as he speaks on television, has a certain culture of conversation, which sometimes makes Mr Westenthaler miss in public appearances. I kind of had to go by the ear, attack my head: Is this Mr Strache, who also said the horrors on the Viktor Adler market? This is one and the same! And then this thing comes, this thing you don't want to talk about. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Are we on the topic again!]] Yes, of course, we are talking about this, Mr Weinzinger, even because you want to avoid it. We also wanted to give Mr Strache the chance that he would actually find words. What's the matter? After several days: The others do it too. It was meant to be different. I was young and stupid. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You just don't want to hear it!]] [[Abg. Strache: And you don't want to hear the truth!]] These were your attempts to respond, Mr. Strache! That's not enough! Harmless and relieve by attack; impoverished by comparing Austrian media with the worst NS publications, that is an insolence of National Socialism, Mr. Strache! That's not enough, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. You're twisting everything!]] No, it's not about twisting, Mr. Strache! What we demand from you are clear explanations, and we do not just ask them from you – we do not receive them from you. You're making fun of yourself. You say the three fingers you showed, that was for three beers. Yes, who in Austria do you want to take around the nose with it? This is the typical bone-kledge argument that you obviously use in your circles and says: Haha, now we've shown them! That's not enough, Mr. Strache. Now we do not want to have a statement from you, because the explanation you would have to give would not only have been a general distance from the National Socialism – it does every legal radical and neonazi in Austria anyway; it does with three or with five fingers; it is not enough – but what we would have called for of you, Mr Strache, would be that you are involved in another culture of conversation, as you sometimes have it; that you drop your attempts at exclusion from certain minorities in Austria; that you moderate your language, which is often very violent when it comes to sending people home – “Daham instead of Islam” – because these are the precepts of an unspirit that we no longer want in Austria, Mr Strache. We would also have liked to have a clear statement not only from Mr Schüssel, but also from Chancellor Gusenbauer. That would have been necessary, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7482	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. I put the watch on the desired 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7503	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! The first part of your remarks, Mr Oellinger: do not be confused! We now no longer have a black and blue-orange government, in which one part of a lot that others have almost nothing to do with. We now have a red-black government. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: But you also have to say that!]] If we wait – no matter what is in it now – let us let this federal government work and then look at whether this balance I see there – there are only two mandates difference, the Federal Chancellor puts the SPÖ, there are “twin tales” among the ministers who are already looking at each other –, works. [[Abg. Oils: That's the way it is!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Take care of each other!]] – You don’t need to be afraid that things are happening that are not in our minds! Faith You're me! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the second part of your remarks: I'll give you the right. The pressure on you, Mr. Strache, is high, he is still there. I think he's gonna get even higher, and what you're doing is your business anyway. I think the Chancellor's statements are enough here. They were clear and clear. [[Abg. Oils: No, there was a bowl clearer!]] It is always necessary to see the whole thing, Mr Colleague, and it is now up to colleagues to take further steps here. On today's situation, on the Federal Ministerial Act: I don't know what I'm saying. Her appearance – and that was almost a performance now, Mrs. Rauch-Kallat. They come out, refer to the past seven years and represent them as if there had been massive and great improvements for Austria's women. [[Abg. Smoking Callat: I just remembered that!]] I don't need any supplementary education, Mrs. Oberlehrer! – No, neither is Mrs Bures! [[New call of the abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] They have been sitting with us in the round of negotiations and have agreed to all the improvements that we have been able to negotiate in this round of negotiations. Let's stay at the bottom of reality, and let's not talk a little nice, which has not been beautiful in recent years! Let us now take this together, and let us see that the situation of women is being improved. Look forward and not forever back! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll tell you how this can happen: Labour market policy is at the heart of this federal government, because it is absolutely important for women and men in this country, and I am also building on Mrs Marek, your party comrade, who will be responsible for this area, that she also take steps here. [[Abg. Scheibner: Is there another secret paper?]] This €100 million from the labour market service for women: Well, they did, but do you know what the supplement is now? – These 100 million € have now been added to qualitative objectives! We've been able to negotiate this. Women receive career guidance. [[Abg. Smoke-callat: Read it...!]] No, there were quantitative goals, you know exactly, there were no qualitative goals. That's new, that's social-democratic, and that's good, Mrs. Colleague. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] To the income sheath: You have to look into the facts, please. The income sheath has grown, and this has nothing to do with the fact that the female employment rate, the employment rate has increased. Especially because of the part-time working women, she has increased. Four out of ten women in this country work part-time in sectors that are poorly paid. Our manuscript in the Government Convention is that improvements for part-time women will be made, that a minimum wage will be negotiated, that is exactly the women... – since we have been d’accord anyway, but then stick to the truth and don’t say other things to the pensions for example. I take a final example before my speaking time is over because it was really a bit adventurous what you did. They say the pension reform was great, pensionable times, and with seven years of work every woman can retire anyway. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You also have to consider life's throughput. This credit is immediately used up for women. We must, and we have now negotiated this, take the child education into account even better so that women are not poor when they retire. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes!]] This is also a social democratic manuscript. Let us now take this together, and let us see together that the situation of women is further improving, that we are making poverty avoiding policy! Nearly 400,000 women lived, please, until recently at the poverty threshold. We managed to negotiate the minimum security, and unfortunately you and your ministry alone were able to do too little. I am still of the opinion, and this was our wish that the localization of the Minister of Women in the Federal Chancellor's Office should be the better because the more efficient way is because she can cooperate and coordinate much better there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7685	The next speaker was Mr Haimbuchner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7707	Mr President. Values Representatives of the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear visitors to the visitor gallery! I thought I was on the wrong show today, on the show “Wish What You Want”: Everyone talks about everything possible, everyone is allowed to talk about everything, because no one adheres to any regulations. Yes, parliamentarians do not even adhere to those rules they have given themselves. Not even that is the case! Mr Oellinger, I would like to say to you: If you sit in the glasshouse, don't throw stones! I miss once the clear demarcations of the greens of violent operal ball demonstrators. Where did you find clear words? And then let us look at your colleagues, your former colleague, Mr Joschka Fischer! Let's take a look at that! Joschka Fischer said: I was militant. He beat an executive officer. – Yes, what did Mr. Strache do? Mr Strache has distanced himself from everything possible! Yeah, what else do you want? What do you want? Should he come to you in the commanding office and sign everything there, or what do I know? What do you want? You're beautiful, please? There you can only say: Please, come in front of your own door! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] So, and now, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have a business discussion. Yes, so every member of the government can represent everyone in the future. I'm surprised that you didn't write into the federal constitution: Everyone is allowed to be represented by everyone, and once there is a need for man, perhaps by the Secretary-General of the Party, because it is so beautiful. – Mr. Kelsen would turn around in the grave! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, the EIA comes with “State-political responsibility”. That is where I recall Mr Morak's statement in the Constitutional Committee when we discussed it there: Yeah, there's always some dates. – Mr Morak, Parliament is not an appointment! Here's the Sovereign. Here's the people. And the Sovereign has the right to receive answers from members of the government! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not a big coalition wish. Mr Morak, you too are part of the legislative system, you are not there as a member of the government. You have the responsibility here as a Member of Parliament. That be to you, please, once written in the diary! That's what we can talk about. But that is even the motto of the ÖVP and even the great coalition: If you don't fit the Constitution, then you simply agree! Constitutional lawyers who are not away from your camp have been criticizing this for decades, and also the Constitutional Court itself. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: There are also the town boards!]] This is an event law that is unworthy. You install this beautiful B-VG, that's what you're trying to do with your...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7763	Mr President, I should like to thank I would ask you to take that expression back, otherwise I have to give you an order call.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7785	Mr President. I regret it; I take that expression back. As I said, I'm correcting: It's going to be messed up. I hope that in the future, the great coalition will become more statesmen and not in the future, because it does not fit the Constitution, it simply changes it, but that certain basic rules and also a certain consensus will be respected. We of the opposition will certainly take this into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7815	The next speaker is Mr Morak. Also 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7836	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the Government Bank! Dear Sovereign! - Where is he now? [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that we would have saved all of this. I'm saying that right from the beginning. If you had said, Yes, we take on government responsibility and go to the government, then there would be no two-thirds majority in this House and then you wouldn't have the problem. - That's just by the way. Nevertheless, let me say: We will soon have to deal with the architectural report in this Parliament. The architectural report, decided here in this Parliament, basically concerns many ministries – it concerns the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, of course the Federal Government, the countries and everything together. And now I'm asking you: Which Minister, which Secretary of State should be able to represent all of this? It's just architecture. And we have this in very, very many areas, that today we basically see everything as cross-sectional matter. Now, of course, you can say – I say as an opposition – that: We always have a problem with it, completely indifferent, as the government stands. I remember coming in 2000 for the first time and saying: Work and business are a ministry, and then suddenly, ladies and gentlemen, Petrovic told me: That's 34 years old, that's state! and so on, and so on. I mean, we're here on the problem that we might have to deal with each other differently. We should choose different words. This has also been mentioned more often today, and I think that we would do well to take each other seriously and not always organize any Jux. This Parliament has not been made to do this. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Shopf.]] I remember, ladies and gentlemen, as was said here – I think Mr Cap was also in charge, but the rest of his “manship” – how terrible it is that there are so many State Secretarys. And I also remember what it said in the committee now: Yes, these were the good State Secretarys, who somehow knew each other, but now we have loud State Secretary who does not know each other! So I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen: You probably only have to be dead as a State Secretary in order to be the wonderful State Secretary afterwards. That was wonderful State Secretary. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: No, no! Please stay alive!]] - Not dead? - Okay, good, not dead, but living as a parliamentarian. Then you'll hear it. Ladies and gentlemen, we have now also discussed the question: What exactly is thinking into the future? How do we organize the future? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without your appearances!]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's not true! You always have quality!]] Mr Oellinger has claimed that there would be no approach here at all. I'll tell you: We have business and work. – I think this is a forward-looking approach. We have Europe and international affairs. – I think that is also a forward-looking approach. We have the environment and agriculture. – I think different from you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, and I believe that this is also a future-oriented approach. And I think that school and culture are also one. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Madam Minister, I say to you: I'm happy about it – I know you may have been different sometime, but I'm happy about it – that we basically have school and culture together and not a so-called Ministry of Art. I think the words in this area have changed enough. I think this solution is a good one. The culture does well, the school does quite well if we basically do the mediation work here. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Burgtheater!]] - Please, don't bother me with your calls! Please, have mercy! [[Rejoicing with representatives of ÖVP and FPÖ.]] A Member of the SPÖ has said that she is grateful that the Ministry of Women has been established in the Federal Chancellery. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been in the Federal Chancellery for a long time and can therefore say: I have also done myself relatively easily there during the budgetary negotiations, perhaps you – it is not here at the moment – will have different experiences, Mrs Minister. I have only had good experience with this positioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7953	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e7974	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I really talk about it today, and I think today's decision... Okay, former state secretaries are excluded. [[Numerous calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: Only today? And does that mean that other speakers didn't talk about it?]] In my opinion, today's decision on the distribution of tasks under the Federal Ministry's Law reflects very strongly that, particularly in the area of family and generation policy, it is a government programme that does not provide sustainable and clear answers to the major social challenges, namely demographic change. There are no clear and comprehensive answers to the slow rise in birth rates, to the increasing age forecast and thus no answers to the danger of conflicts between generations. What, on the other hand, are you doing? In this important area we fill the whole apparatus of generation policy. In the past government under BZÖ participation, we have set the course in this area. We have clearly known a policy that makes it easier for people to live families, which makes it easier for people to take care of the family, and which also makes it easier to become self-determined within the family. We have made significant improvements in various areas of pension provision. We have increased the care allowance for the first time, we have expanded family benefits overall, and we have also formed a very functional alliance for families with the economy, which is very important. It was correct in terms of content, and it was also right from the division of the ministry. That is why I am already very shocked that the Federal Ministry for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, as it is still said, has been divided in such a way, namely by more black and a little red. I have to say: It's a false signal on the generation question that's being split up here! And you, Mr Social Minister, are really sorry about the agendas you have remained. They have actually been cleared, and the ministry is only more of a torso. If I look at what is in this new ministry, which now means BMSK, because the “K” – thank you, I have to say – is also for consumer protection, then I see: the general social policy, social security with exclusion from health insurance, accident insurance and unemployment insurance – there is no longer much left, general and special care, especially maternity and infant care – is very interesting, motherhood is a social matter; I would have believed that this is going to be the family ministry –, care for care as well as disability care and social assistance matters, general population policy – which is always that, because population policy in family and youth matters belongs to the Ministry of Family and Health – and the elderly policy is still shamed. That's why I'm saying: Conflicts are preprogrammed! And I wish you a good spirit of teamwork that these things work. Because of what I have heard so far, read and saw, I doubt this good spirit of teamwork. I am also somewhat surprised by what Mrs Heinisch-Hosek said earlier. She said that there are always twin tales that look at each other. Is there now a caretaker: in a black ministry a caretaker from the red side, in a red ministry a caretaker from the black side? I know this differently: We were partners in this government at the time and not mutual caretakers! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, for me, this is an absolute step backwards and not progress, and at least one should not overstep the term “future” in this area. A step back shows up for me also in the new women's ministry. The Ministry of Women really only has a symbol character for me. Perhaps one would like to revive a long-awaited legend by the SPÖ: that women's policy is voiced SPÖ domain. Then I can explain it to myself, but my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, the times have changed. I wonder, Why did you not have the courage to set up a genuine ministry of equality, as in other European countries? When I look at how it is elsewhere, for example in Sweden, I see that there is a Ministry of Integration and Equal Treatment there, not a Ministry of Women. In Denmark, there is the Ministry of Equality. In Germany there is the Ministry of Families, Seniors, Women and Youth, i.e. a real Ministry of Generation. And it's similar in Finland. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think – and it is a pity that the woman's minister is no longer here – in the present and in the future it is about two, three important problems, for example, that men have equal opportunities in the family and that women have equal opportunities in working life. And that belongs together. One cannot leave the agendas regarding men somewhere in the Social Ministry and everything else in another or in one ministry. That is why I really wish the Minister of Women very much luck in her coordination and coordination tasks. I think she should have a ministry that has competence and is capable of action. If she says that she will create childcare places with the countries with a 15a agreement, then I wish her really good luck, especially because no single euro is provided in the budget for childcare, not even what was negotiated by us in the last government for innovative childcare. So here are many thoughts in circulation, but little will happen in implementation. But I am also one who will ultimately measure the ministers or the government in their actions. However, we will not vote for this proposal, which is now in place, because it is the most expensive government, because it has a nonsensical system of representation, and above all because the future prospects necessary in the area of social security and families are not available. But we know how to do it differently, and I am seeking our approval of our amendments.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8044	Mr Buchinger spoke from the government bank. I'll set the clock to 2 minutes as planned. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8065	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! I understand that the Federal Ministry's Act also points very much about the demarcation and the changes from the Social Ministry to the Ministry of Health or also about the undisclosed demarcations on the field of economics and work. The ladies and gentlemen among you who have been here for a long time will probably have experienced a lot of game types of competence allocations and summaries. From my point of view, the decisive thing is that the contents to be taken into account in these departments in the next few years as government documents are here in the High House and that the administrative activity in these homes is carried out in the interests of the people of that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There it is in the Social Ministry that three major tasks for the future are to be dealt with. One is to alleviate those failures, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, which you have been responsible for during the last seven years as a Minister of Social Affairs and Social Affairs, namely hardness in pension law, which has unduly burdened tens of thousands of people in that country. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The best system in all of Europe!]] We will correct these hardships very quickly in the coming months, and then, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ, we will give you the opportunity to show you that you have learned from your mistakes over the past seven years and are willing to take the course for a more modern and social Austria with the new Federal Government. [[Congratulations with SPÖ.]] The second important task is to make the field of care security sustainable, and minimum security is also a major challenge to address. Not quite understood, Mrs Haubner, I have your reference to equality policy. If I heard it correctly, your men's department wouldn't have had the women's evenings. It wasn't your resort before, and it's not in this resort. I think that this is an exciting question that I would like to support in the next few years to be brought together into a ministry of equality. Finally, Mrs Haubner: For five sections, you have used a minister, a minister and another minister and a secretary of state for the execution – but we will do so in four and a half sections with one minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8114	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. I put the watch on the desired 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8135	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Today we will decide to amend the Federal Ministry Act. This will also have an impact on art and culture, which is very positive, as I mean. The Ministry of Education, Science and Culture is divided into two ministries, a Federal Ministry of Science and Research and one for education, art and culture. With this ministry we will for the first time have had art and culture under a common roof for many years. There will be questions of art to be dealt with as well as matters of the Federal Museums or also of monument protection, as well as areas such as film promotion or issues of working conditions of cultural or cultural education. It is very important – I have stressed this over and over again – that the Minister will now also be able to negotiate at his own level with the other ministers both nationally and internationally. And I welcome the fact that art and culture are combined with education in a common ministry. We have had many positive experiences with this. Think of the ministers Sinowatz, Hawkiek or Zilk who held both resorts. However, this structure also emphasizes that culture and education are always communicative vessels. An example of this is reading. Reading is a cultural technique, and without good reading knowledge there can be no good personal or professional development. However, if reading is not taught, promoted and cared for from childhood, access to art and culture, literature and theatre is also restricted. The resulting restriction of education and culture guarantees that the issues of cultural education and participation will also have much higher priority in the future. I would now like to make a request on the construction culture so that the construction culture is better discussed in public. [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8208	That of Mrs Magist. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8283	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8304	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! High house! After all, the afternoon has brought some knowledge, such as the fact that Mr Morak, who is now a Member of the Council of State, has suddenly gained the ability to speak freely, which has lasted for more than two minutes, i.e. a positive development, associated with the withdrawal from the State Secretariat. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, I was still waiting for the introduction of learning ability, because, given the development of the last days and weeks, one can really get there and publicly regret that not the FPÖ of Mr. Strache and Mr. Stadler has again done a coalition with the ÖVP, shows little learning ability. [[Abg. Lentsch: He didn't say that!]] [[Abg. Praßl: And not that supposed to be!]] Okay. The representatives of the ÖVP each know exactly what the other meant. You will certainly be able to clarify this with Mr Morak. As it sounded, a deep regret was quite to be heard. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] To the previous speaker from the FPÖ, we do not need to say anything, because he is neither present nor could have ended his speech without the soubling of Mr Stadler's speech. But he also used the old pattern once again. It is enough to distance itself from anything, from anything possible and then to add to supposed mistakes with others that cannot be placed in any relation. That is why I do not go into it any further, but go on to a further understanding of this afternoon, which I have accompanied with a certain amusement – I may be forgiven for that. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, a former Minister for Health and Women! – produced here and with Mrs Bures, who has consistently called her a woman minister, a debate began on whether there is now an independent women's ministry or whether there has been such a situation in the old government, although with all the business regulations in accordance with interpretations, there is no independent ministry of women at that time, nor is there such a one. That has, I have to say, a certain irony that I can't escape. To the actual correction of the Federal Chancellor, who, in his speech, was also aware of this error, there would be an independent women's ministry, to correct: There is no such thing as there has been no black-blue or black-orange in the past. There is a minister in the Federal Chancellery, who is not yet solely responsible for women's affairs, but has the entire public service and the media as an additional competence and fields of work. This is not even what Johanna Dohnal was then, who was actually solely responsible for women's affairs. I must say to the address of social democracy: It is nice and good to be oriented to the achievements of the era Kreisky, but not all that was an innovation at that time, it is still today. At the time a minister for women's affairs introduced in the Federal Chancellor's Office was new and, so to speak, a concession, since the time was not yet so far that there could be a ministry of its own to stay on this stand today, is a little poor. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If the Minister at the Federal Chancellor's Office, who is not only responsible for women, but also for others, has already stated in her interview, that at least she does not intend to come to the private sector with rules that she considers nothing of commitments, but rather sets best practice models in the room, then this also allows a conclusion to how bold or decisive this policy will be, which you make in the Federal Chancellor's Office. Finally, I would also like to point out a not completely uninteresting parallel between the Minister of Smoking and the current Minister Bures, who both had a common past as respective Secretary-General of her party and thus a great proximity to the party president and Chancellor. Minister Rauch-Kallat at the time did not succeed in freeing herself from this closeness and from this role to become an independent voice for women, but she was a defender of the government programme. Whether Mrs Bures, who links a long-term common story with Chancellor Gusenbauer, who was a loyal Secretary-General, succeeds in emancipating herself from this role and actually becoming a strong voice for women, will have to prove it first.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8379	Ladies and gentlemen! A brief debate will be held at 3 p.m. The next speaker would be Mrs Steibl, but she does not want to take the floor now, as she meant to me, because it does not pay for a minute. I am therefore interrupting the sitting until 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8414	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:01:05]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8444	We shall now proceed to the brief debate on the request of the honourable Members. Stoisits, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on application 90/A(E) for Carinthian Local Boards, a period of up to 6 months. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are now going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes available to the first speaker for reasons of reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Stoisits. I'll give it to him. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8478	Madam President. Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! – Thank you for your presence! You would not have to sit here if you did not want to, because deadlines are, as it were, original parliamentary matters. I'm very glad. It is not quite unexpected that Mr Faymann is present, because he clearly feels, although Parliament has not yet dealt with the request, already responsible – this honors the Federal Minister exceptionally. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] The ladies, of course, who stay here. Ladies and gentlemen, why did the Greens request this deadline debate? – Simply and simply because all the political parties now represented in the government – say: ÖVP and SPÖ – in the last few weeks and days in the public have assured that the topic “Solution of the so-called local panel problem” is a priority. It was also mentioned in the Government Declaration that by the middle of the year everything will be solved. The Federal Chancellor has even spoken about the fact that the constitutionally guaranteed rights are now still experiencing a special coronation through a constitutional law. It all sounds good! Permanently one speaks of a constitutional law; it is insanely important. In the debate on the agenda in the Constitutional Committee, the respective speakers of the parties said that this matter was so important that the solution was so extremely important and priority that now in the Parliament could not be discussed because a solution would have been envisaged by summer. – Yes, please, where, if not in Parliament, will laws, subsequent regulations and open political issues be discussed or where should they be discussed? I have not yet been aware of intensive discussions on this subject in the Council of Ministers, although it has been repeatedly stressed that it is a very priority issue. That is why we want to discuss possible approaches to the so-called solution here in the National Council and we have tabled a motion for a resolution which shows two possible solutions from this situation, which is really more than just a matter of procedure! motions for resolutions are always asking for requests to become active in the government. Now I don't want to see anyone with this never-ending story, which, according to Gusenbauer, will be finished in summer – I hope we will be able to experience it until summer – boring, will not do so, but only call two key dates: It has been six years and a half months since the Constitutional Court for the first time in the field of local boards and has said: We have a law, which is – unfortunately that is for some – unconstitutional. The Constitutional Court, who is wise, sublime and never somehow knows how – how should I say? – revolutionary and courageous, but always moving within the framework of the arguments that can be made by all – now politically powerful – has said: Well, if we now remove a law that was then decades old as unconstitutional, then the policy that has not recognized this constitutional illegality over the years now also needs time to fix it. The deadline given by the Constitutional Court of Policy was very, very long. But what did politics do, then black and blue, yet clearly black and blue? – It has left this period unused and continued to maintain the unconstitutional state in Carinthia. This has led to the fact that citizens, residents of this country have not only thought but have actually become active and said: You can't let everything happen, you can't especially like the fact that permanent breach of justice is almost accepted and nothing happens! This led to the “further measures” – under quotations – and not least to the recognition of the Constitutional Court of last year, which was promptly responded to in the National Council. - See! Within a short period of time, the National Council has submitted a regulation, adopted by the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel, and since 30. In June 2006, there is a valid topography regulation for Carinthia, which has two towns more than the one which has been in force since 1977. The two villages of Ebersdorf/Drveša Vas and Bleiburg/Pliberk have been since 30. ==References====External links== Since then, there has been a more than lupen-clean legal basis for setting up bilingual village panels in these two places. Now I don't want to tell the graphic story – in the truest sense of the word pictorial history; in these questions it's all about images, especially the head of the state of Carinthia – because it's not just about pictures, it's also about shovels and there's a work assembly that you put on, and it's always very much done with hands, sometimes with feet, when it comes to disassemblying in the truest sense of the word of the rule of law. For there were not bilingual village panels in these two villages in particular, but bilinguality was disassembled, existing bilingual village panels disassembled or with small add-on boards with one-language local panels to do what I consider to be the politically relevant thing or fact of recent years, namely: The breach of the law of the highest political responsibilities is made every time such an action occurs to a piece more saloonable. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We sit there – in a visual sense now – and are just too apathetic when an insight of the Constitutional Court, constitutionally securitised rights in the State Treaty of Vienna, simple laws such as the People's Group Law ignored and simply ignored and simply ignored, all garnished with the increase of the representatives of these institutions who want to help break through the right, in the case of minorities. That is why our initiative, which is not – and I would like to expressly say this now – the great solution to this question, but rather a small piece on the way to greater rule of law in relation to these two towns. Mr Faymann, the head of state of Carinthia, has not done anything since the realization, so to speak, but has done the opposite of what he would be obliged to do, and that is why, in our view, you would now be on the train, the instruments set out in the same federal constitution, for what happens if one disregards and scoffs the rule of law, so to speak, to help the rule of law to break through. This is exactly the point that moves people in Austria the most: How can it be that there is a head of state who doesn't care for anything, disregards the laws, detests the representative, who just puts a witch-cross over Taferlan? How could that be? Every minor crime of a citizen is suspected: If you don't pay, you'll be executed! Maybe some of you have already experienced that. It's not possible not to pay a penalty mandate, you're quite right, but the head of state of Carinthia can do and leave whatever he wants. And that's what Federal Minister Faymann is supposed to put an end to! The debate on this path to put an end to this, in a completely democratic process based on constitutional law, is to be held in the National Council, and the Constitutional Committee has rejected this. – That is why our deadline proposal, because we are interested in relevant solutions here, and because we do not want to wait until the head of state of Carinthia is pleased to do something, or until he is no longer head of state – whenever. We want them to be set up twice in a knowledge-designated local panels in Ebersdorf/Drveša Vas and in Bleiburg/Pliberk. That's almost a piece away now. Your sole responsibility, Mr. Federal Minister – not only yours; the Chancellor sits in the government boat, that is, he does not sit in the government boat, but he sits before him, he is the taxpayer – that is the responsibility of Gusenbauer/Faymann to do so, so that words are not words, but that the words also follow actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8567	Mr Faymann, Federal Minister, spoke next time. I would draw your attention to the fact that your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8588	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! That I stress – initially on the political issue – the formulation of the Coalition Agreement only to 100 percent It is a matter of course, however, of course, that the rules governing the implementation of the local authorities' knowledge of the Constitutional Court should be safeguarded in the broadest possible consensus with the ethnic groups on the basis of the previous proposals. However, I have spoken for another reason. – I spoke, because I took the view of President Jabloner that there would be a margin for a room that would allow me to give a direction, of course, and that both the lawyers of my house asked for an opinion, as well as the Constitutional Service. The Constitutional Service, which I have directly appointed, has today delivered to me its opinion and its opinion; I also assume that it is a matter of course for me that I make this opinion available to every club in this House who wants it in full. This opinion of the Constitutional Service does not provide any room for ministerial appointment. I would just like to mention two passages to you briefly, since I would like to make it available to you in writing anyway, which make clear the position of the Constitutional Service on this subject “the possibility of a ministerial arrangement”: If only monolingual local panels are provided for a place called Carinthia in the Topography Regulation, or if fixed bilingual local panels are only set up in one language, there is – specifically stated here – no application of Article 16 para. 4 and 5 B-VG before. – This is the point that would have enabled the direction in the right view of Jabloner. With regard to localities not mentioned in the Topography Regulation Carinthia, it should be assumed that there is no obligation for the country to apply bilingual town boards at the present time. A direct applicability of the Vienna State Treaty and the resulting obligation for the country to apply additional bilingual local boards could only arise if the Constitutional Court removes parts of the Topography Regulation Carinthia. I wanted to bring this to your attention as soon as possible – it has happened to me today – because I believe that Parliament and the Members have a right to get the latest information as well. I have the Constitutional Service as that body which, I think, has to give an undisputed opinion in an interpretation, and because one can say, of course, it is not an ordinary question which a ministry could explain on its own. I believe that this procedure brings a certain degree of legal certainty, and I ask you to take note of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8633	I would draw attention to the fact that all Members who have spoken now have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Mr Wittmann has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8658	Madam President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! The question raised here is, of course, one of the essential questions that the Federal Government has to address in this legislative period in the constitutional area. I think that this question has also found its way into the government agreement by essentially clarifying that it will be solved. One will bring a solution in agreement, in maximum agreement with the groups of peoples, and finally take into account that one will grant an opening clause, because it cannot be possible for one to set down the localities to be determined at eternal times in the case of shifts in the area of the ethnic groups. It is also necessary to enable future developments and to provide the peoples with a so-called opening clause. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The bad thing that happens in this discussion is that one has a head of state who treats the rule of law in a way that sets an example for the simple citizen not to pay attention to it. I think that the damage caused by this discussion, which will only be maintained for this reason, in order to change sometime political change in Carinthia, can hardly be remedied. I also believe that the whole discussion does not do well if one BZÖ council in Carinthia says that the rule of law is one and a healthy people's feeling the other. There we are in the debate that has already begun today; this is NS-Diction, because Goebbels declared 1939 that the Jewish question will be sent in a satisfactory solution in the shortest time of a German people's feeling. Ladies and gentlemen, if you say that the rule of law is the one thing, and on the other hand a division of the Nazi state in the field of ethnic group discussion, you should consider what you are doing with it. [[Inter-call at BZÖ.]] The call, Mr. Cot, is perfect. You said the Carinthian Slovenians were just “guest. ” Do you know what you're doing with that? Do you know what that means? Do you withdraw these “guests” from the guest’s right for good? You have a state treaty to fulfil, you have made an fishing observation on the Austrian Constitution. You are obliged to live up to this promise! You must defend any provision of this Constitution! – And you say they're just a guest?- Oh, my God! You probably confused your role here. You have to contribute to a solution where it is a matter of resolving, in coexistence, a local panel conflict in mutual agreement in the best possible way – instead of pouring oil into the fire! You are bound by this Constitution to which you have been praised! The division that is entering here is embarrassing and unworthy of the rule of law. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You shouldn't always say that with an eye twinkling – you don't mean it – these formulations and these flakes. I think that's the wrong way. We have a model effect here, and we should all contribute to a common solution and not call one a guest from whom you can withdraw the right of guest at any time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Only have you prevented it last year! You willfully destroyed the agreement!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Party policy against state policy, that's your foreign exchange!]] In 1955, our predecessors here adopted the State Treaty to which you are still bound, ladies and gentlemen, and on which you were praised. What you're doing in your diction is pouring oil into the fire is not allowing a solution so that you can always have a point with which you can score a bit regionally in Carinthia at the national level. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ask your mayor in Carinthia what they say about it!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Twice you have prevented the agreement!]] This head of state makes himself ridiculous with his words and deeds, mocking the rule of law. The division of a district councillor Dörfler should finally belong to the past. The health of the people and the rule of law do not conflict with them, but the rule of law stands above the people's feeling. The rule of law is what holds this Republic together, and in a democracy the most important, namely the legal brackets, to hold this state together. And if you want to get rid of this, you've lost nothing here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8760	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8781	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! High house! I believe that the applicants, in the case of the Greens, and also my previous speaker and SPÖ must already ask why we still have this issue on the paper today, why this still belongs to the agenda. I can go back a few months, more precisely about half a year, and point out that we were already very, very far here in the House, and not only in the High House, but also in Carinthia we were very far. Here too, there has been a broad consensus. I remember years ago: There were several consensual conferences and finally there was real consensus between the Slovenian and the Home Associations in general. But the SPÖ colleagues, in which the representatives and also the head of the Carinthian state, were abandoned by their Federal Party chairmen at the time. They lacked the courage to draw a final line under this chapter. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group! You have not even had the courage – you were beyond consensus on this – to approach a consensus in a way, but you have in principle denied it and, as Mr Wittmann said, have also poured oil into the fire. I'll come back again a little bit later. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is nonsense! That's funny!]] As for the SPÖ, I can now call for that courage that you left at the time. As the Federal Minister has already mentioned, this is clearly in the government programme and is our goal. The starting point is consensus, and it must be joined. To the address of the SPÖ, I should like to remind you that you should also bring your mayors in line accordingly, because here a certain amount of crack appears to be going through the group. As far as the motion for a resolution is concerned, I should like to say – and this has now been confirmed – that there are no solutions within, Mrs Stoisits, but there is only one driving that is not lawful. This has now been confirmed by constitutional experts, as Minister Faymann has already mentioned. [[Abg. Oil: What? What?]] Here is a breaking hammer method or a beating method simply not targeting that there is over it with instructions or with laws that there are forces placed in the barriers. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's incredible!]] You know that only a martyrdom is created, and that is why this is also the completely wrong procedure. We will by no means agree to this deadline. The fact that the line of the head of Carinthia is not always clear is no question, which is a certain variation, but there is reason to hope that he will now agree to this consensus again, as he agreed to him half a year ago. [[Abg. May. Stoisits: The line of the head of state is sun-clear!]] Mr Van der Bellen, he agreed to him at the time. In addition, he has already invited the German Chancellor Gusenbauer, who is now in particular on the train, to Carinthia. That is, the asparagus meal at that time finds its continuation and could have a deeper meaning right here. Since there is always a minority conference here, I can say – I think it will also follow a request – that for us, for the ÖVP after the election, what happened before the election applies: We stand to our line, we also insist that the numerical material available to us at the time was sufficient with the average of the statistical surveys. In addition, we should wait for an ECJ judgment in proceedings pending. Finally, Mrs Stoisits, and the Greens: A few months ago, at the invitation of the Enotna lista, we met together in Tainach and discussed this issue. I can only say that the Greens are glad that you are not in the government, otherwise you would have to fight now with election promises that you could not meet! Then you'd have a problem now. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's how you have the problem!]] Or it would have a problem for the Carinthian population, and we don't want to. We from the ÖVP want to see clearly the consensus here, which can only be implemented with the broad approval of the population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8883	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e8904	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, what you have said now, I really want to reject it with all my determination and in a sharpest way. [[Abg. Prince: The truth will be said!]] It is not a breach of justice from our side – that is what you have said here – but it is a question of the permanent breach of the law in Carinthia by the head of state and by country parties for decades, in all cases since the last few years. Constitutional breach, open constitutional breach, is what the head of state of Carinthia has been doing for years! And here you accuse us of breaking the right by asking the Federal Minister to enforce the right!Unknown term type: "%s".? That's absurd! That's grotesque! There's really no going on beyond! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please go back with me, Mr Auer, two years ago – let's not open the whole debate, two years! In 2005, the then German Chancellor Schüssel and Kärntner Landeshuptmann Haider Ortsplatten set up in places that were undisputed according to the old Topography Regulation of 1977. Well, 2005 was the anniversary year of the State Treaty, because one wanted to do something like that, because one wanted to show all over the world, one strives to comply with the State Treaty, and at the same time also wanted to show the Austrian population with different motives, we are strict. In 2006 this Parliament, by your party, by the BZÖ, by the Greens and by the SPÖ, will then jointly adopt a Topography Regulation which states that it must in all cases be set up in these two already discussed places, Bleiburg and Eberndorf, local panels. Only the head of the Kärntner state, who together with the German Chancellor in 2005, refused to do so. The head of the Carinthian state is – and you have not answered that at all; I find that to be boundless – the “healthful people’s feeling” and says I am the healthy people’s feeling. That's the presumption of totalitarian rule, that one says I'm the healthy people's feeling. On my own – and I don't need to use the Goebbels, who also resigned on them, – that's not the point! That's a breach of constitution, that's a breach of justice! Yes, you can laugh, Mr. Schalle, there you may laugh, because you would rather have the Slovenians somewhere else – in Slovenia or what I know where. Maybe you'll find the time and opportunity for us Your deportation plans will also be explained sometime. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! On the other hand, beyond party politics, I find that groups in Austria, for which we have to provide under the State Treaty, whose rights we have to exercise, have been denied the right for years. [[Abg. Wheelers: You are also on the back!]] On the other hand, I think that Mr Westenthaler says after Mr Wittmann's speech, that we will inform your social democratic mayors of what you are saying in Parliament. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With a nice loop on it!]] It's trying to do this. I'm going to start again. You are the same as Mr Strache. There you can take your nose, because you do not differ at all: Haider, Westenthaler, Strache – one and the same mixedpox. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, what is that?! That's a terrible thing!]] [[Further calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Mr Wittmann, I agreed with everything you said. But what I would have liked is that you say in a sentence how you intend to deal with this request. To you, Minister of State Faymann, another comment. They bring us an opinion on the Constitutional Service. – Beautiful and good, there is a legal opinion on it, only: If you quote the Constitutional Service by saying that the ruling opinion on this issue is different from the opinion of Mr. President of the Administrative Court of Jabloner, I would have liked to know what the ruling opinion is based on. My knowledge is that there is no ruling opinion on this incident at all, because there has been no such incredible incident that a head of state, a state government over years breaks the law and constitutional law of the Republic – and the half of the Republic is looking, making fun of it or turning with its shoulders and saying that we will try to produce a broad majority. At some point, we will already be able to turn people's feelings around and reconcile people's feelings with the rule of law. That, Mr Federal Minister, is too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9027	Mr Oellinger, I would like to urge you to take the choice of words a little more carefully and to pay attention to the dignity of the House. However, I would also like to ask that such debates should at least preserve peace and respect the dignity of the House in the event of interlocutory calls. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, there is no ban on the use of on-the-spot calls!]] [[Further calls to representatives of BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Above all, it is a matter of calm in the hall and of the fact that the speaker can still speak and you can understand something up here at all. Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It was quiet before!]] Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9080	Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The only thing that is good at this green deadline proposal is that this matter will be dealt with quickly. But that's the only thing. Your hateful titrations, Mr Oellinger, are really embarrassing for this House. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can bring to your mind the historical facts. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please, there you are the appropriate interpreter for the story!]] It was in 1976, when the Federal Government of Kreisky carried out the last secret survey of the mother tongue, and then 3 941 Slovenians were known to do so, 0.87 percent. These sizes must be assumed. Because that was apparently too little and because it came to boycott calls, a so-called fine determination was introduced. This fine determination only made it possible for these 25 percent to be reached in localities such as Bleiburg, Ebersdorf or also in Feistritz. That is, by means of statistical tricks and revolutions it was only possible that in Feistritz from about 5 to 6 percent was counted to 16 percent, to the Slovenian votes the invalids for this and then the 13.7 percent non-electors, and then it was only possible to reach these 27.7 percent in Feistritz. That means that these are statistical distortions, we have to assume that is fact. Only in this way was it possible to set up bilingual village boards in certain municipalities and villages. Take You know that, these are facts! Since then, since that 14th century. In November 1976, there was no further mother tongue survey. The only thing there was, these were the demands of the Slovenians. And to this day these rulerships cannot be counted! What is right in Europe must also be right in Austria, Mrs Stoisits! In addition: Article 7 of the State Treaty is fulfilled. He's been fulfilled a long time! And even the EU’s “three wise men” have found that Carinthia behaves decisively and that the Republic of Austria also behaves decisively. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second – and this also to the knowledge – is: The Constitutional Court is not a legislator! It can remove a law, but it cannot determine when bilingual town boards need to be set up. Something comes to mind what you also need to consider: The Carinthian people have a very painful history and had to find out between 1918 and 1920 and after 1945, what was going on by the murder and tossing of many loyal Carinthians and, again and again, the attempts to separate the South Carinthian territory. And, Mrs Stoisits, you too will not be able to make a Slovenian country out of Carinthia! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Sounds.]] If you are really talking about us introducing this right in Europe, talk to the Slovenian colleagues about the AVNOJ decisions and the Beneš decrees in the Czech Republic! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is infammation!]] That is why the Freedom Party has tabled a motion for a resolution and calls on the Federal Government finally to conduct a group survey in Carinthia and to carry out all legal and organisational measures to prepare such a minority determination. Then, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, we can talk about numbers and a genuinely fair minority policy in Carinthia.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9151	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9172	Madam President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning, a few words on the comments made by Mr Wittmann: It has already been said to you here and also stated for the Hohe Haus that last summer not the Carinthian population, but the SPÖ here in Vienna prevented a consensus solution! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On behalf of my colleague, Mr Oellinger, I would like to say briefly: Although they have spoken in great variety of words of a breach of law in connection with the head of state Dr. Jörg Haider and the local panel question in Carinthia, only: But they have remained guilty to us so far for a breach of justice. As you have heard, both the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Constitutional Service of the Kärntner State Government have confirmed that there is absolutely no breach of law. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: nonsense!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: You can't even listen!]] But I will take the opportunity here to bring some light into the dark, as your motion for a resolution, as you can see, is fully based on ignorance. One in this room will know that the legal basis for minority protection in Austria is, on the one hand, the framework agreement on the protection of national minorities, which Austria ratified in 1998, which states in Article 3: ‘Any person belonging to a national minority shall have the right to decide freely whether or not to be treated as such;...’. Article 1 states: Rights under this Framework Convention are part of human rights. – And as we all know, Article 6 of the Vienna State Treaty, which commits Austria to respect also these human rights, states. I see – we are very much of an opinion – a human rights violation, but not on the issue of minority protection, but on the establishment of minorities. The results of the working language collected as part of the census are the statistical data for the collection of the strength of the Slovenian minority in Carinthia. With the fact that, in the context of the statistical evaluation of the census, persons with the multiple indication of German and Slovenian were automatically and without knowledge of the person in the Slovenian People's Group, the Republic of Austria infringes the Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities and Human Rights. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But really not!]] It is all said here in the room below – this is perhaps also interesting for the visitors to the gallery. Let us imagine that there was a note in this census, on which it was stated: Language of use: German, Slovenian, Croatian, Burgenland Croatian – all possible. If you have specified German and Slovenian as a language of use, you have been automatically counted as a Slovenian – and that can't be it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, head of state Dr. Jörg Haider calls for a survey of the mother tongue, because only with such a one can the actual strength of the Slovenian minority in Carinthia be determined and only one corresponds to the framework agreement for the protection of national minorities and thus human rights. On the basis of the results of the parent-language survey, Kärnten, together with the Austrian Federal Government, wants to reach a permanent and definitive solution to the issue of the local panel in the sense of the long-term preservation of social peace in Carinthia by constitutional law. One thing is also to be held – that is why I do not understand the excitement in this connection with the Green Group: In 2002, Slovenia carried out an ethnic census with a collection of the mother tongue and the people. If it is possible there, it will also be a correct solution for Austria! Finally, I come again to the framework agreement on the protection of national minorities. This is set out in Articles 1 and 3 of the Treaty on pages 937 and 938: ‘The Republic of Austria declares that for it ‘national minorities’... Groups of Austrian citizens with a non-German mother tongue and a national of their own are to be understood.” In this sense, the Federal Government will be required to find a solution together with the Carinthian population.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9259	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Member. Stoisits, ladies and gentlemen, the Constitutional Committee for Reporting on the 90/A(E) application of the Supplements to the Carinthian Local Boards for a period of up to 6 months. ==References== I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[15:42:35]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9298	I will resume the negotiations on points 1 and 2 of the agenda. Mrs Steibl came to speak. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9323	Madam President. Dear Secretary of State! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the new Federal Ministry Act, we come to some important changes in the distribution of resorts. From my point of view, a very important change is that the areas of youth and family in a ministry have also been put together and also in ÖVP trades. This union, I think, is a good one, since these two issues, youth and family, are, of course, also closely linked to the health of people. The government programme shows that we, the coalition partners, have agreed on the most important aspects of family policy and that the family resort is also in good hands – namely, the Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky. I think it was good that at the beginning she might have polarized a little. So the family has come back to focus and it has not only remained at Sunday's speeches. I think that is also a very exciting discussion. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is very important to us to develop future prospects for this group in our society. The last government period has already shown that action has been taken. I am thinking, for example, of discussions from the negotiations, where the SPÖ collegiates have also said that family policy on the part of funding is a top in Austria and throughout Europe. For example, parental leave has been introduced, a tax reform for families has been implemented – the childcare allowance has already been mentioned today. There is, of course, a further development here – not only do I want to cry on the past, but I also want to look to the future. What do we want to further develop? What do we want to improve? – For example, flexibilisation of the childcare allowance, where a real option is created, or the improvement in the allowance for family allowances and also in increasing the income limit for the multi-child supplement. Ladies and gentlemen, family policy is a cross-sectional policy that needs many bright minds. It is also an important concern at this point to thank all the family institutions with different approaches to their work. They have also done a lot in advance for these government negotiations. However, I would also like to thank all the institutions that volunteer, voluntary or professionally deal with the subject of family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If the opposition now speaks of a step back in family policy, I say: It would be good if we could find a way together. In this context, two further comments: It is good and right that the Family & Profession Management GmbH is now once again anchored in the Family Ministry and assigned there. However, it is urgently necessary to find a new structure at the GmbH. I think Mrs Family Minister will be very successful – in cooperation with the State Secretary for Labour and with our Minister for Economic Affairs. Because in the Familien GmbH there are more than € 2 million, which can be used intensively in cooperation with the Family Ministry for Reconciling Work and Family. A second comment: I mean, it's a good thing the country's principle department remains in the Social Ministry. I will only ask the Minister that he reduces in particular the volume of publication in this department. I think it is justifiably necessary – women's ministry, men's department – but we should be careful to deal with taxpayers' money. I'm just thinking about this one book: An Alfons Haider does not have to be financed by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9386	Next, Mr Magistrate. Houses to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9407	Madam President. Estimated government members! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's debate on Agenda items 1 and 2 has, in particular, been misused by the Green Group for a possible further evasion of a political opponent. The Green Group has therefore tried to influence our federal party, Heinz-Christian Strache, and also the entire Group of the Party of European Socialists. I quote Mr Oellinger, who has stated here that we should go in and change our policy. In the Green Group's speeches, this thinking has prevaild with the background to using this debate to simply disable a political opponent – a political opponent who has gained confidence from the people for his policy, who has been trying to warm up the Greens for years, but also only to a modest extent from the voters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] That's the difference! The votes will be in democracy – and that is the good thing! – counted and not weighed. That means: The people are always right, the voters are always right, and if he chooses the freedom policy as it is made, he appreciates our policy, and we will not do what you naturally would like from us: because of this debate our policy is changing because the public also has a right to continue addressing issues that you are trying to put under the table. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] I really think there are greys in Innsbruck, where you have tried to call on the people to hide asylum seekers who have to be postponed, namely asylum seekers who have been shown to try to mediate young people in the Rapoldipark addiction, who have been proven to have become criminal, who have been sentenced, whose asylum procedures have been negative. They were the ones who then called on the people of Tyrol and Innsbruck to give shelter to these rejected asylum seekers! – I believe that is the policy we need to warn against, and not our policy with which we stand on the side of the Austrians and clearly point out these diffamations. [[Abg. Oils: Oh you! Oh, you! Oh, you!]] Dear Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, you have found today that you urge a better style and handling. I'll give you that right. I only think back half a year where you and the BZÖ took us a seat in the Federal Electoral Authority. I should also like to point out that the former President of the House, Dr Neisser, has found that the rule of law is lurking. In the course of this discussion, Professor Pelinka noted that we almost already have Ukrainian conditions in Austria. I'll give you the right one. This style must be changed! It can't be that in the past, with the help of your art party, the BZÖ, you have tried to hinder a free policy, to disable a free party by making us the third place on the list by precluding tax money. [[Call the ÖVP:Snow yesterday!]] - No, it's not a snow from yesterday. This also belongs to the style here in the high house, and this also needs to be addressed once. It cannot be said that we have to sit here in Parliament all morning and listen to how we try to shake and measure ourselves by other political groups. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] It must also be noted that many things have happened here, which, of course, has greatly affected us as a Liberal Group and also motivates us to continue our policy accordingly. One thing to do here is to mention a changed style: It is strange for me, as a parliamentarian, that we had two rooms in the Parliament club for 21 mandates all autumn and that we needed it all autumn until we accepted that the Freedom Party was again represented here in the House with 21 mandates, and we did not want to take note of it all autumn long that the Freedom Party still has to get the club promotion for the remaining months of course. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] We also had to take the path to the Constitutional Court, file an action until the SPÖ, gratefully and with Madam President Prammer, reached a conclusion here and said: It cannot be that a party that has received so much approval from the population is being tried to eliminate and treat unlawfully. This is a great concern to me, Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, to tell you that the style that is being maintained here in the House also includes the fact that the political competition is treated in the way that the voters want – therefore strong and with all the rights, but also with all the duties. On the content of the Federal Ministerial Act: What I personally regret – I have last noticed at night – is that tourism has actually come under the wheels here. I have not only found that the government was only half worth writing their programmatic descriptions on tourism. We also note that it was not worth the government considering the great importance of tourism, especially for rural areas, and giving it a position to do so. We of the Freedom Party believe – and we will still apply for this today – that a State Secretariat for Tourism is also at the highest level of time to give this most important tourism industry, in order to provide this important industry with the corresponding support from the Austrian Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9490	The next item is Mrs Hlavac's speech. Your speaking time is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9512	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! We now discuss the composition of the Federal Government, the division of tasks under the Federal Ministry Act. Mr Buchinger said that those members of the House who have been here for a long time have already experienced a variety of divisions of tasks. That's right. I remember many novelties to the Federal Ministry Act and think that there are also different ways to divide the tasks. Of course, in one task or another, it can be thought that another would have offered itself. For example, I would also like work and family to land at the Ministry of Social Affairs, but on the other hand, I think that a very good and sensible solution has been reached in general. I would just like to mention three areas. To the Ministry of Women: I think it is a very, very positive thing that there is again a women's minister who can concentrate entirely on the tasks, because there are just in this area. very much to do and many tasks are foreseen in the Intergovernmental Agreement. I am convinced that in this legislative period we will take a big step forward. I would also like to mention that art and culture have been summarized. It was not good in the past legislative period that this was separate. It was often difficult to determine whether something had now been transferred to the Federal Chancellor's Office and to the State Secretary there or to the Minister for Education. I think that the summary of the tasks was sensible and necessary and I expect new impulses here too. The question of integration has been raised and there are, as it were, no own provisions and no own departments and responsibilities here. I would like to point out that the Government Convention explicitly states that it is a cross-sectional matter. I think that this is a very decisive progress, because integration is not something to be solved with the foreign police, but something that really covers all the areas of politics and works in every area. I therefore believe that it is good to note that this is a cross-sectional matter. It is also intended to create an integration platform that will then focus on these tasks. I think that this is, in general, a successful solution, that a good basis for the work of the Federal Government has been created, and I am confident that something will be achieved in the interests of the people in this Federal Government and in this legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9557	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9578	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Chancellor – we remember – has begun his government statement by saying that people do not expect miracles in this country. I also took note of this, because, of course, today in this fast-moving time and in the reconnaissance of the people, not even those who believe in miracles that are strictly Catholic. In our country, however, people wonder about the many government positions, government offices that exist. [[Abg. Eder: Go!]] – Yes, yes, my colleague! You know yourself a little bit in the economy too! – They wonder above all that we constantly demand: We need a slimmer state, we need a more efficient bureaucracy! The EU has added more administrative burden. – We should consider this! I say that in a conciliatory way. I do not say this embarrassingly, but I urge you to think about it. Why don't we go ahead with a good example? Why don't we start up with the savings? Why don't we think about where this political starkness that we all suffer comes from? Each one of us suffers when he talks with the citizens – each one of us! And this is not about politics, ladies and gentlemen, but about politics, because people no longer understand that we are inflating the administrative system of Austria in such a way and are unable to make it slimmer. I come from the economy and I can say: The most important concern of the economy is to limit administrative activities, eliminate regulation, allow competitiveness. Mr Gusenbauer, Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, also said he wanted to create jobs. – No one in this House will have anything against it when it comes to achieving the ambitious goal of creating jobs. But jobs create the economy and, to a small extent, the Republic, we now know that. That is, we must also recognise the importance of the economy that the economy needs to have in order for it to develop rapidly in the competitive scene of the world, globalisation et cetera, in which we stand. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I did not understand that the Federal Government is not taking this one-time opportunity to say: fewer ministries, fewer state secretaries! As a tourist speaker and entrepreneur, of course, I would also like us to have a tourism secretariat, because tourism is extremely important especially for rural areas and it is our all concern that rural areas will continue to be taken more into account in the future. Of course, the Farmers' Federation also has a great interest in improving people's lives in the countryside. [[in the direction of the Abg. Gritish]] The people in the country will not have it easy in the future – this is noted by looking at the government programme. You can see with what consequences the commuters will have to deal with in the near future if they have to pay a higher fee if the price of the vignette is increased. That is exactly the opposite of what people in the country expect! That is why I say, ladies and gentlemen, if the government programme had been a little more ambitious, the Federal Ministry Act could have been a little slimmer, if it had been possible to start the savings fund at the government posts. – It’s not just the government posts that cost money, we know, it’s also the cabinet and the officials that cost a lot of money. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] In fact, you have really failed to put a clear signal in the direction that we in Austria are able to raise a modern state, by the example of the Austrian economy, which it presupposes us. [[Abg. Brosz: Is this not embarrassing with you after seven years of government? That's incredible!]] Thank you very much for being so diligent in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9656	Next, Mr Donabauer. The clock is set to 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9678	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think it's more important than the eternal routing, whether a ministry is too much, or perhaps one too little, whether the administration is running like that, is a functioning state. I think we have a good starting position. Of course, every choice is exciting and much more exciting the time after – government education, government declaration, there are many discussions, many approaches to thought, that can and must be so. Of course, the Federal Ministry Act is another matter, where the same question is always asked. We now have 13 Ministries and 6 State Secretariats. This government is well positioned and will meet the requirements and challenges. I'm convinced. Nor do I think that it is always tried to appreciate which ministry has a special or which only has a normal position. Every ministry has its very special task and, in my view, that, I believe, is also the access of every democrat. Everyone has a job to do. And the ministry will be so efficient as well as it has been managed. I believe that good conditions have been created in this regard. Personally, I believe that government work is teamwork. This government has done a lot – everything already said: Administrative reform, good budgetary discipline, place for reforms, environmental and energy issues are to be addressed, work and business, research, all of which are key issues of this government. I think that the discussion is necessary that it should be conducted on a broad basis, but that the interpretation of mistrust is as unfit as is the case. Mr Mag. Stadler, we both have nothing to blame for, but that was already an arrogant, quite inappropriate finding today, and I would expect myself to be a power. Stadler here apologises for the profession he has today deeply slandered and insulted! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ and Bravorufe at ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stadler.]] You can judge how you want to, it has everyone's social feelings, and a stadler does not need to use this rhetoric. [[Abg. May. Stadler: My father has never been represented by the Farmers' Federation...!]] That's my personal opinion. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Only Raiffeisen can be insulted!]] I'll get to the point. The previous Ministry of Foreign Affairs has now been reorientated. There is a clear definition of terms and tasks: European and international affairs. I think it is groundbreaking, for good, for positive, that we are making this requirement in Austria for the first time, because I think that these areas are very much concerned with European and international politics, and I am also convinced that they are perfectly and well perceived by the two personalities who will be responsible for this ministry. Many believe that the Social Minister does not have the rank he should have – I am of a different opinion. When you look at the whole subject, the age insurance, the pension discussion in the continuation of the reform – very important! – if you see that the entire consumer protection is in place, the care money coordination – only in the care money sector there are enormously different orientations – then you can say that this is a good conception. I am also pleased that agriculture, forestry, the environment and water management are being continued in the previous structure. This is tangible, and I am convinced that best work can be expected here too. For me, the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Health and Women is also promising. I think it is positive that all health care matters are summarized here. This means that the reform, which was envisaged in 2000 and was implemented between 2002 and 2006, can also be carried on properly, of course in consensus in today's government coalition. [[Abg. Brosz: The women are no longer in health!]] I am also glad that the overall veterinary sector is also assigned to this ministry, especially because animal transport, not only agricultural animal transport, agricultural animal transport, but also animal transport is clearly placed here in a competent manner – very important! – and because all the issues of social policy and social security have also been brought together here, of course in coordination with the Ministry of Social Affairs, with the Ministry of Finance; that is so. I am convinced that what is advised and also decided today will be the best starting requirement for good work in the next possible – I am convinced – yet four years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9758	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9779	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Klubobmann Cap said today in the early days that this division is characterized by the spirit of government cooperation. By way of exception, I give him the right, but the very problem is that the spirit of government cooperation can already be seen in this division. I would like to explain this by an example, namely, the example of department competence, one must say, in the field of research, in the field of research agendas. There's very good to see how this mind looks. How was the stand up to now? – The previous state was already extremely unsatisfactory and confusing, because the research agendas had already been divided into several ministries: BMVIT, i.e. the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Ministry of Science, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, all about the Ministry of Finance, a little more environment and agriculture. So it was totally inconspicuous. The debate on the structural issue has focused in recent years on the need to change this structure. We agreed, not only the Greens, but also the SPÖ and many experts, that change does not mean: even more responsibilities, even more splitting, but that change means concentration, pooling of research agendas, best in two ministries, as it is internationally usual. What we have now, what we have with this Federal Ministry Act, is actually the opposite. Only formal responsibilities have remained the same, so at first glance nothing has ever improved. In a closer look, it can be seen that some things have worsened, especially in view of the fact that the novelle now requires, for example, that the institutions of the research funding agencies be sent by different ministries. And you really don't wonder that this is always a mixture of red and black ministries. In other words, there is a real lack of legal distrust here, and that is the proportion that we know from the past, just a little bit less of the distrust that was already felt in the negotiations and that has not yet been cleared out. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a lot of money going into research in the next few years, and that is a good thing, that was always our wish. However, if you want this money to be used efficiently – in the economic field, but much more in the sense of the researchers – then you will have to consider this distribution of resources again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9843	The request made by Mr Sburny, Mr Greenewald, Mr Freundes is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9897	Next, Mr Marizzi. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e9918	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Mainly speaking today about the division, the new occupations and the competences has been discussed in detail. Of course, the organization is very important, it is important for the ministries themselves, for Parliament and also for our Members. But one of the most important points is the implementation of the government programme. A personal note to this effect: I think that Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor know exactly when to appear here in Parliament and when and by whom they can be represented. I think they're going to be very economical. Of course, there can be different views in this respect, but believe me, the Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor will certainly be here on the important issues. The opposition considers the criticism it has made in this context necessary, but we believe that there should be this division and that it is necessary for the implementation of the government programme. Ladies and gentlemen! Ing. Westenthaler said that this was a capitulation of this federal government in the morning. – Mr Ing. Westenthaler – he's not in the hall right now – when I think back to your time as a clubman during previous coalitions, I have to You already remember: There were daily ministers, monthly ministers and annual ministers – I could call you a few names – who probably did not know their own State Secretary, as soon as they changed – yes, the one too. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Staribacher!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Schmid!]] I immediately enter names, but then I will not finish in the 4 minutes when I list all the liberal or orange ministers. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Or red!]] They weren't famous books of history either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Staribacher and Schmid weren't long!]] Mr President, the current coalition, which has already been said today, has chosen a team structure. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Mr Scheibner, there are, of course, fractional differences, of course, it is so that a coalition is not a marriage, but a partnership on time. But what has come out after long, difficult negotiations can be seen. Only the important issues that have been highlighted here – I did not like at all how Mr Westenthaler has degraded the Social Ministry and the Minister of Social Affairs today – do we think only of the two main issues: the reduction of unemployment, the reduction of poverty, but also of the topic of fair pensions or of a minimum of €1,000. I would just like to mention a few points and point out how important it is that this social structure and the programme, Mr Oellinger, which you have always called for, be implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parent]] Mr Bucher said that the government cannot create jobs. - No, she can't. But if the new infrastructure package provides 10.5 billion for the road and rail, the expansion of various infrastructure facilities, this will significantly help to achieve the goal of reducing unemployment by 25 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! We are glad that, after a relatively long period of government negotiations and relatively long time of reconciliation between the ministries, a basis for the implementation of the government programme has now been established. I mean, that's under the title: Together for Austria, together in a great coalition, man should be at the centre of attention!. - That's our goal. That is why we today are happy to give our approval to this form of organization, both of which are laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10013	Mr Grünewald came next. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10034	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Sburny is right: There are many reasons to be disappointed by this government programme. What only surprises me is that people who have been expecting a turn and express their disappointment are completely incomprehensib response. I would have imagined that differently. Even German chancellor Gusenbauer finally reacts to his critics in such a way that he tells them that they only did not understand the wisdom of his swallowed constructions of the ministry distribution, that it was all so great that the simple man/the simple woman simply did not understand it anymore. That's not a very good argument. I'm telling you, several Fauxpas have happened in the field of research. Weaknesses and shortcomings in the government programme are reinforced by the Federal Ministry Act, and individual things that are quite passable and innovative are counter-carriaged by the Federal Ministry Act. It cannot be that in the worst case one sends or alternates a research programme in Brussels from two resorts. The bowl has said something significant: What do you need in the research landscape? – fingertips. – So if fingertips are what an innovative technology and research policy should be, that’s too little, because when it comes to money, it’s usually more efficient than fingertips. And what happens tragically? – The SPÖ withdraws for understandable reasons, because it has caused certain loss of trust, I suppose, from the universities. It will fight for the research funds to focus on transport, innovation and technology, and the university with Hahn will have all its hands to do, so to speak, to preserve its agendas – the research fund is no longer with you, but there are many other things. What is this – the expression I can't take now – speciality that pedagogical universities and universities are not part of the department responsible for universities and universities? It may be that some are afraid to leave that to the ÖVP, it may be a legitimate concern, but factually, technically, it is not justified. Because then, I say, the University of Soil Culture belongs once to Minister of Agriculture Pröll, and the University of Applied Sciences of the former Military Academy will then take over Darabos. And if then the first legal faculty in the judicial department ends up, you have to say: It's clean! That's really crazy! – This shows that it is a lot of door signs policy, especially as regards pedagogical universities and also research. You won't change it, I know, but the appeal is still valid. There are no ridiculous groups and people behind us. The research fund itself, the rector conference, the Austrian technology society and many more experts – believe them, otherwise remove yourself from the clientele, which probably understands more from research than individuals who have broken their heads in vain and frustrated.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10082	Next, Mr. Dr. Sonnberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10104	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Science and research are the basis for the creation of more jobs, for the maintenance of competitiveness and for economic growth and hence for social security. The international networking of Austrian scientific institutions will be even more important in the future. Further objectives are the expansion of opportunities for young scientists such as excellence programmes and offers to Austrian scientists abroad. The increase in the research rate to 3 percent of the gross domestic product by 2010 will certainly also be implemented, and I am convinced of that. These examples alone show that the division of education and science competence is in principle correct. Now, on the representation system, a few comments. At the European Council, all ministers can already represent state secretaries. There are no problems. If you know how many times our ministers are represented at the European Council, you can see that a representation system is necessary in the interests of Parliament. Furthermore, a member of the Federal Government, if it is present in an EU country, can already be represented by another member of the government and the attached State Secretary. There have never been any difficulties or problems. If the Federal Chancellor can now be represented by State Secretary Matznetter and the Deputy Chancellor by State Secretary Lopatka or State Secretary Silhavy in their agreement, this is an improvement in the possibility of the presence of government representatives in Parliament. The argument made by President Glawischnig that according to the Rules of Procedure a right of speech of the State Secretary is not possible is not correct. Those who know the level-building of Hans Kelsen's legal system in the broad outlines must know that the Rules of Procedure must be interpreted as a qualified majority by constitutional majority and that the refusal of the State Secretary's right to speak would be unlawful. By the way, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Gusenbauer, has offered to take up the representation system for State Secretarys and to agree to an arbitrary amendment tabled by the opposition. Mr Stadler, you said this morning that you could imagine a broader representation system that all the State Secretarys could represent all the ministers. [[Abg. May. Stadler: And the ministers among themselves!]] I think this is very, very reasonable. You only need to make one request, and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment. If you do, then you will have a success, and here you can make an even better representation! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Are you speaking for the ÖVP?]] The Federal Chancellor has agreed that we agree. Send this request! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We're bringing him in!]] Finally, a few comments on your comments, Mr Stadler. Her attacks on the Minister of Family Kdolsky and on the farmers have been felt embarrassing today. Your unsuccessful activity in the Eurofighter Investigation Committee will hopefully not be the reason for your aggressiveness, which you have offered here today. This aggressiveness is not worthy of this House. Also the behaviour of Heinz-Christian Strache, the publication of the photos Kussel with Finz and the “stormer” comparison are on a similar quality weak level. Such statements judge themselves and are not worthy of this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10189	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10211	Madam President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Mr Sonnberger, a few comments on your good speech, which has obviously been written down to you. [[Abg. Prince: Hopefully you never look into a manuscript! That is not to be appreciated, Mr President.]] – This is not the case, Mr Prince, it is about the dignity of the House, which you see in danger, precisely with such representations as you propose from the government groups. That is a question of the culture of appreciation in this House. This is where we expect a business-to-business solution and also appropriate appreciation for the Members of this House. - That's it. One thing would have been to be expected today: that a new symbol is set, a new era is beginning, that one really feels the touch of a new policy, including in the field of distribution of ministerial competences. But that is not the case at all. That's the tragedy. And an area, yes, ladies and gentlemen, an area where this becomes quite clear, that is precisely environmental policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We would expect the SPÖ to call for a more massive and clear environment, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. This would make sense if one looked at the SPÖ's environmental programme of September 2006. There it is still clear – I quote – that: “Austria needs a new Environment Minister! It's fast. For almost 20 years, the ÖVP has been putting the Environment Minister – and the balance for our environment is bitter...” Yes, we know it is bitter. But why didn't you put yourself on the tracks accordingly? [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] No, it's not about looking at the Minister's finger, that's what we've done all year round. It is about creating an environment that finally brings together the agendas of energy policy and consumer protection. And that would have been to be expected, but not what you are doing now, namely to continue this kind of incompatibility. I see an example of incompatibility in the right of means of production, in the approval of plant protection products. The agricultural sector is also responsible for the application in the federal states. While at European level the environment and agriculture are very clearly separate, we clearly have several Commissioners there. It should also be time for us to separate the environment and agriculture. And it should have been expected that in an environmental ministry the competences will be combined from general environmental protection, from energy, anti-atomic policy, radiation protection, air pollution to water – there are still the problems with nitrate pollution, with pesticides pollution – waste management, uniform environmental plant law, to give some examples. Ladies and gentlemen, you have not taken the opportunity to bring together the fragmented environmental law, the fragmented environmental competences, and also to ensure the independence and equivalence of environmental protection in your own ministry. Unfortunately, the environmental standstill of recent years will be continued by this government. That is a pity and this is a central part of our criticism today and in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10269	Next item is the report by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. You've done four minutes, Mrs. Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10291	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, your group is indignant about the size of the Federal Government, and on each question you will only ask for a separate place of business. So somehow you should decide what you really want. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Ministry Act is the basis for the work of the next four years, and unlike some skeptics among you, I assume that it will be four years. And doing it in these four years is really a lot. The need for reform is immensely high, and I think this government agreement with this Federal Ministerial Law offers a really useful framework for it. The result can be seen, even if the few drops of advertising that we had to take are driving away many positive things from public attention. I can also mention it by name: I would have preferred to get the agendas of labour market policy out of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and to see them settled in the Social Ministry that they would certainly have been very well removed there. But the work priorities which I was able to negotiate on behalf of my group, particularly in the area of combating youth unemployment, are given a very clear and ambitious job assignment here. There is a comprehensive package of measures to drastically reduce youth unemployment, the AMS funds are increased, there is a training guarantee up to 18 years, a practical reform of apprenticeship training, which offers more opportunities in the labour market. The resistance to over-company teaching workshops – and here I turn to this side – was finally abandoned. What has been rejected for many years as a state doctrine is now recognized as a useful complement to operational training. The vocational orientation will be expanded and from the seventh school level will also be introduced in a compulsory manner. This is done by the Ministry of Education, as is the case with young people in many centres. I would never, however, come to the idea of talking about “splitting” or even of “fileting”, as Mrs. Haubner did. There are just topics that cannot be pushed exclusively into a box, but these are widely perceived! In addition to youth agendas, research and innovation, these include women's agendas. There is also a technical expression for this, namely gender mainstreaming – I know for some of you inexpressible and also incomprehensible, as some speakers have noted. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Article 8 B-VG!]] The essential element of Gender Mainstreaming is that all policy areas are covered by the equality objective and that this is also a primary task for all ministries. This achievement must, of course, be coordinated at the highest level – and this is done at the Ministry of Women at the Federal Chancellor's Office, where all threads come together. So this, ladies and gentlemen, is living gender mainstreaming. In my capacity as managing director of a women's organization, I also regularly participate in network meetings, and this is where this government constellation has been very positive, where, of course – and I have to say that – the ministry's budget is a prerequisite, but it has been assured to us. In the Ministry of Health, family are also cared for the youth evenings. And there is also a comprehensive work programme, which will certainly be given the utmost attention, such as promoting participation models as accompanying measures for finally enforced electoral age reduction, increased addiction prevention not only in the area of illegal drugs, but also in alcohol, nicotine and gambling. And here, I think, there are very promising synergies in this area right now. I can't list everything exhausted in the short run. In any case, I am very confident that with this programme and this framework we can improve life for many people in this country, and finally we are there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10339	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10361	Madam President. Dear Members on the Government Bank! Ladies and gentlemen! On the matter itself today, I think, everything is said important. I will therefore take this opportunity to say a few words on my own. Since I was praised here – that was in January 1987 – 20 years have passed. There is now a new government on a broad basis, and I think that is a good moment, a good opportunity to say goodbye to this house personally and to make room for disciples. I do this on the one hand – after 20 years – of course with a certain sadness, on the other hand, but also quite aware that this is not a farewell from politics, but simply from this house. I would like to take this opportunity to say a few words of retrospect: I came into this house, and my first priority was environmental policy – that was the first legislative period in which the Greens were in the house, and in fact we were of the opinion that we were the Greens, and we did the environmental laws back then. I then had the opportunity to draw up a transport concept for the ÖVP, and later, in particular, the social policy on the one hand and the security and defence policy on the other, I became my personal priorities. And if I think back like that, I have to say, There have therefore been very, very many very nice moments here. For me, it was always the most important thing in politics that people have jobs, especially that school leavers find a job. So I also used a lot of time and energy on it: We have also decided a lot in this House in this context, starting with a start-up job programme, extending the apprenticeships to the apprenticeship premium, et cetera. But also the age part has not only passed over my desk, but it has been created on my desk, various other things also – up to the finish. Looking back, this was an enormously beautiful and fruitful time for me, because I had the opportunity to experience how an idea can make something that you can realize or at least contribute to ideas. Of particular interest, of course, was the time – it was almost a decade – which I spent as Minister of Defense. I was concerned not only with ensuring the safety of the population but also with answering security questions as far as possible. This has ultimately led us to achieve a lot in the field of procurement. At the end of the 1980s, Austria had no single steering force, and the German army was probably the only army in the world that did not possess such equipment – in fact unable to oppose an opponent too – and then there has been some happening in this area. There have been many new operations on the former Yugoslav border, in Bosnia, Kosovo, Albania, to name only the most important. Austria has joined the NATO “Partnership for Peace” and has become an observer at the WEU. I have set up the Central Cooperation and Structures reorganised. When I took over the army, it had a manpower of 340 000; after the Cold War, I reduced it in two organizational steps to about 100,000, which was not always easy, but that belongs to it. But also in the social field – and for that I am –: I have had to listen a lot to the pension reform when I carried it as an ÖAAB-Obmann, but I am more convinced today than ever before of how important and how correct it was and is. I am therefore speaking today a warm word of thanks to all those who have helped me to do so. The employees, colleagues and, of course, some have helped me to a very special extent: certainly Josef Riegler, who brought me to the Federal Government, Alois Mock, who has always supported me to the highest degree, and above all Wolfgang Schüssel, with whom I was in the government for a long time, who was my boss, whom I consider to be one of the largest politicians in Austria since the beginning of the Republic of Austria, and whom I would like to say a very special thank you here, because I believe that he has made the choices for Austria to fit for the 21st century. ==References== [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] One can argue about details, and there is certainly also the one or the other to criticize, but consciously working and thinking, especially for the future of our country, I have benefited a lot from it, and for that I would also like to say a warm thank you to him. I wish you all – you forgive me, if I say so familiarly – all the good for the future too! I myself will deal with some issues – the issue of energy and the environment has already been addressed today. I am particularly concerned about demographics. The fact that a third of the children are born in Austria – one third is missing in order to keep the population constant on the basis of the birth rate – is something that should give us all to think about, because in the next few years the demographic pressure from the outside will undoubtedly become so huge that we all have to deal with the fact that this will probably bring excessive difficulties for our society. Of course, it is the security policy issues that I will focus on, especially the situation in the Middle East and the Middle East, which I have been following and analysing very intensively for years. I'd like to finish with that. I do not want to give any good advice: The only thing I wish for for this House – that was also a principle of mine – is: Even in election times, I have tried to find and find contact with opposition groups. I consider it extremely important that we take a position – the positioning in federal politics is important! – but we should prevent polarization, as it happens in some of our neighbouring countries. If we can make a contribution to this, then, I believe, this is the best service we can do to our people – a service to our home country Austria. In this sense everything, all good and good success!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10459	Mr Fassleven, I think I can thank you on behalf of the whole House for your cooperation. We wish you all the best personally! Enjoy the political free time – it also has its benefits in life. Good luck! [[General condolences.]] Next item is the report by Mr Jarolim. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10494	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I can keep me essentially short. I cannot fully understand Mr Sonnberger, your objection to this offer to Mr Stadler by way of a request. I mean, we should be very careful about this. Of course, we can have different approaches, but I do not wish to see a Parliamentary State Secretary. There are reasons for this legal regime, which are also in the Federal Government's plant. – It may be. The fact that this is being handled very carefully has been communicated to us by the Federal Chancellor today, and we should therefore let it be based on ourselves. I would like to say a few words on the division of the ministries, but in particular on the question of the occupation of the ministries, because I believe that this is a very important argument and opens up a very important perspective. The Ministry of Justice was occupied by so-called neutral ministers during the last legislative periods, which actually had a negative effect on the extent that relatively many good ideas were produced, but all of them were not implemented. If, for example, in the last legislative period, I look at the ideas of a Federal Minister Gastinger and then I have heard the speeches by former President Khol and the now Clubobmann Schüssel, I have noticed an insurmountable contradiction. I think that was also one of the points why we have taken such a path of Biedermeier in the last legislative periods. I hope that it will succeed in re-establishing justice policy to what it should be: It should create framework conditions for the further development of society and not be an obstacle and an obstacle such as is currently under family law. We hope that we will move on together. Since maybe another thing is: If I look at who is now on the government bank – and I am particularly referring to the representatives of the coalition partner – I have much more hope. Today we have also read in the newspaper, which has happened, for example, in the field of education: We have fallen back to one of the last places in Europe. This is not quite surprising, of course, because whoever saw Mrs Gehrer's activity and how we should have become such a centre of competence for gold cap sticks, of course, has equally noticed that there has to be a break-up. When I see Mrs. Kdolsky, Mrs. Schmied and others here, I think that only because of the people the credibility of wanting to give gas and getting back in Europe the rank that should be given to us is absolutely given. In this sense, I wish all of us a good legislative period. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10544	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Count. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10567	Mrs. State Secretary! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! It has already been said a lot about the new form of governance, and above all about the empowerment of the individual state secretaries, which provides for a black and red pact in the Constitution – a new style that has been maintained since the first day since the German Chancellor Gusenbauer, who has promised otherwise in the election. In fact, Gusenbauer has promised that Parliamentaryism will be strengthened, that more attention will be paid to it and that there will be more competence in this respect as a whole. – Unfortunately, all this has not occurred to God – in addition to all the inconsistencies that have now been laid down in the Federal Ministry Act and have been discussed for a long time today. As a parliamentarian, we were not pleased, as was the case by Gusenbauer on the first day of the new government here in Parliament, with the speaking time of Members – especially the oppositional Members! – was restricted on TV. It has also not pleased us that it is the new style that suddenly 10 minutes before the end of the TV transmission Gusenbauer comes up with a urgent request to the Minister of Social Affairs, who is in fact only a Minister of Pensions with Consumer Protection, and thus takes the opportunity for the House to present to the public and steal the show. – This is not the parliamentaryism we have wished for! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's a lot to say. At least in one point, the Federal Ministerial Law is really strange for me. – Even there, Mr Broukal did not prevail: There is no research ministry, there are not two research ministries, there are not three research ministries, but there are still four research ministries – that is, a state with which we cannot be satisfied and which it has promised before the election that this will look different. [[Abg. May. Stadler: The broukal believes this is an upgrade!]] But we must not, in fact, complain, Mr Broukal and also my dear colleagues from the Greens, because, finally, before this government was formed, we have taken the first step in this direction of fragmentation in Parliament, too, simply dividing the research agendas in the second Republic for the first time – on the intervention of the Greens. You have to hold it the way it is. [[Abg. Sburny: The agendas are exactly the same as they were before!]] They wanted a new committee with a committee chairman. - That's your right. They have called for the development of research agendas from the Scientific Committee, thus ultimately encouraging that the research agendas in this House are also fragmented. – This is a fact, Mrs Colleague, and that must be held so. However, I also have a motion for a resolution tabled by the Liberal and Reformist Party on the austerity of the government. We want a fixed number of ministries in the future and believe that 16 government members are enough. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be our idea, because we believe that asylum and tourism and integration are important areas that should be represented in the government, as well as tourism and small and medium-sized enterprises that need representation. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the end of my speech, I would like to deal with the comments made by Mr Van der Bellen, who has explained to us today that he is appalled at the comparison with the “storm”. Van der Bellen has also quoted from the “storm” – completely new to me, because I have never read this newspaper, even if it is historical – and I have to tell you quite honestly: I'm actually shocked by this division. Mr Van der Bellen is quite right in this regard. However, what surprises me about your approach – and you are an old hare in parliamentarism and in Parliament – is that you always start to measure with two measures only when declarations of freedom are made, where perhaps sometime the goal will be exceeded. I'm missing. Their audiences in 1999: There you were, Mr Deputies. Van der Bellen, also already Clubobmann of the Freedom Party – the Greens, apologise. [[Call the FPÖ: Hopefully not!]] At the time, the General Secretary, Ing. Peter Westenthaler, “NEWS”, reported as the “stormer. ” Westenthaler lost the trial at the time. You're evoking – and that was also a delicate fight! – I missed it back then. A little delay, but you're not alone in the boat, I just want to tell you. In 1999, for example, “NEWS” itself – “NEWS”, a magazine that writes quite well for the greens or for the left spectrum in this House – says that the FPÖ – the press service of the FPÖ – writes in the manner, division and language of the “storm”. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Just as unacceptable!]] Where'd you go, Professor? Do you measure with two different measurements? [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] You're not alone in the boat. I also heard exactly what Klubobmann Schüssel said today. I also missed the cry from him: Everyone always says it's too little what Strache says and does, and never looks at himself, but always just the others. ==References====External links== In March 1999 he said about the Freedom Party in the "NEWS" interview that he refused to cooperate with the FPÖ – a year before the government participation. Goorg: It's a completely irregular option. The FPÖ is a bourgeois party. The liberals act as at “storms” times, radical and rough. - Quote. Professor Van der Bellen, where's your measurement towards ÖVP, towards Görg on the day? Where have you been, where were your quotations from the “storm ”? – You read it clearly, are experts, then quote and say that you can’t put it in the same way. I give you the right to do so, but you can't just see it in one direction all the time. We're holding on to this. „NEWS“, Westenthaler, Goerg has not yet distanced himself from these “storms” accusations. And the colleague Neugebauer was the one who said he lacked speed. – They are slow like a snail! It's also the ÖVP. Mr Neugebauer! They have not yet distanced themselves from these really messy, subjective accusations of the then Vienna ÖVP-Obmann. [[Abg. May. Stadler: Now he can criticize the gorg! Now he's chosen!]] But that's how it goes. He's a trade unionist who needs to swallow a lot, but he always sees the speed only with the others, but never with himself. That's the problem. But the Andreas Wabl wasn't better either. An old acquaintance who was sitting here in Parliament. He says that the aggressiveness of the FPÖ in Parliament is becoming more and more reprehensible, in a language called a "stormer" style. I don't know what the "storm" style is, I just know it's been a horrific leaf, and thank God there's no longer that. I've never read it before, but the Wabl knows. He knows what this newspaper obviously propagated at the time, he uses it quite simply and accuses other people to act in the “storm” style. They themselves have said that “storms ” stand for death, destruction, extermination. – You can’t seriously accuse a democratically-seen party here in the House that we stand for this thought. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Then he must not use the comparison – quite simply!]] The Federal Chancellor himself has said that if something like this is blamed in Austria, one must act. You always act when it suits you. The location determines your position, and that is not fundamental. - That's your problem. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But last but not least, because youth sins are always present: Mr Werner Amon, too – he is still sitting here in the House – says in 1994 towards FPÖ that this party is becoming more and more provocative as a collection of people who don't even raise enough intelligence, to leave their dumpling racism, their “storms” nature – under quotations – and their democratic actionism where he belongs. And so on. I only need a few seconds to print out all of this from the APA to find out that your criticism is justified in the matter – to say that is an interruption if you do so. The caretaker will explain himself today, no question. However, I would like you to put your colleagues Wabl in the same way that he claims from other people and other media. I would like you to take Mr Görg from the ÖVP and take Mr Amon to the point of view. I wish from Neugebauer that he tells the Amon to move a little faster, no longer than need a horrendous second and the like. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: You can tell him that yourself!]] If a colleague from your group – Mr Oellinger, Mr Oellinger – from the speaker's desk of a whole political party, which is really no longer close to me, makes accusations on the subject of integration or calls for it – learns the Rules of Procedure. – it should come out to disclose its deportation plans, then, Mr Oellinger, you assume that deportation plans exist, and plans are there to be implemented. [[Call the ÖVP:Ready time!]] I'll tell you something. You know what happened in deportations: Suffer, death, destruction of human beings. If you use such words in the political debate, I ask you: Excuse me when you've been transferred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10769	Mrs Sburny spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the legal provisions; first the facts to be corrected, then the right facts from your point of view. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10796	Madam President. Mr Graf has claimed that the establishment of the Committee on Research, Technology and Innovation has contributed to the first fragmentation of research agendas. On the other hand, it is true that the research agendas have already been divided into four or five ministries with the Ministry of the Environment. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In this house for the first time!]] The additional deterioration due to the Ministry's law occurs by the fact that there is a pre-determined obligation that the bodies or bodies of the research institutions are also sent in proportion with red and black, so that the work is not really easier.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10840	Mr Graf has tabled a motion for a resolution. It is sufficiently supported, properly introduced and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10928	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e10949	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The Federal Ministry Act – the government's division of work – has already occupied us for a whole day. It is already remarkable how day-to-day only the work of a government can be if one can only talk about what may not or may not be expected at the end of the legislative period. I'm confident. This government will fulfil its task of fulfilling its own tasks and working for the benefit of the population. In her speech, the colleague, Mr Grossmann, once again pointed out in detail what it was all about. I can only draw up a few specific points which have arisen from the discussion. Mr Scheibner. You said here today that the great hope of Josef Cap would not have brought what you expected, namely the strengthening of opposition considerations, the needs that the opposition needs to be able to work democratically. You said you even believed him that he was serious about everything he said. I can tell you: He meant it seriously. [[Abg. Scheibner: But where?]] I have invited you from here, in the last debates before the last election, to ensure, as a member of this House, that opposition rights are strengthened, to participate, with the tender indication that 99,9 % probability You probably no longer belong to the government next time. You've been more committed to being loyal to government. The SPÖ will do it. The SPÖ now has the problem of not having 51 percent, so you will have to take note of what we are doing together. You have failed to improve opposition rights at times when you had the strength and strength to do so. That is a strong tobak, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are also excited about who is the better representative for a chancellor or vice- Chancellor. A State Secretary, for God's sake, one cannot accept that, perhaps he does not know at all! In the past it was true that, of course, one minister was able to represent another who didn't necessarily have to know so well in the matter, but we were able to find out that each minister was in a position to represent his duties, and this intelligence I also send to our State Secretary. I also expect the answer to Parliament's questions. I'm not worried that this will reduce our knowledge. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now to another contribution by Mr Bucher, who shows what it means to be government or non-governmental: Mr Bucher said in a wash-up that the government is the most expensive we have had for a long time, 20 government members have never had it, and then said in the same breath that the vignette fee will be increased. We know there is a discussion about this, but what is the fact, Mr. Bucher? Your group has helped to double the fee for the vignette at the start of your government. Your vice chancellor even dreamed of double it again now, but he didn't come to it anymore. If the current minister thinks about taking into account the normal increase in value, the price of price, what might make up a euro, then are you talking about expensive?- Oh, my God! – This is just division that you have failed to implement accordingly when you were to the government, which is also due to the fact that They were no longer elected. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my colleague Mr Sburny, who said that it had become worse in this government, you can see that when you look closely, you say: I am convinced that it has become much better, because 50 percent of social democrats in the government guarantee an upturn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11004	Mr Klubobmann has now spoken. Requested time: 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11033	President-in-Office of the Council. Dear Members of the Government! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To the short call I heard there: ‘10 minutes’: Fortunately, there is democracy, and fortunately one has a right to speak here – because it has been so affected that one can speak here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in my entire political action and action as a representative, I have always made a very clear and clear distinction or a clear rejection, a clear distance to the National Socialist ideology. I therefore do not need to be blamed today for having made a statement, because this declaration is a consistent continuation of what I have always explained in my political action and action: that is, a clear distance from the National Socialist ideology, from the crimes committed in National Socialism at the time. This is a matter of course for every sincere democrat in our country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, of course it is our duty and duty to support and represent our rule of law. That is exactly what is leading me as a politician, as a liberal-minded person, who has also lived and established this attitude in the program of the Freedom Party. I reject all forms of violence and political hatred, all totalitarianism. I also strongly reject racism, even though it is always put under us in an insolent way. That's not here with us! We don't have that! We are very different here, quite correctly, as it has ultimately to be differentiated in politics. But They come here and make political change. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] – Yes, when it comes to violence, Mr. Ollinger. We were not at demonstrations where violent outpourings occurred. You were, I think, not as a youth at such events, no, you were there as an adult and a parliamentarian, as far as I remember. There are also beautiful pictures of you. [[Abg. Oils: Which one?]] There are beautiful pictures of you, which have been shown and colported several times. [[Calls to the Greens.]] There are some Green Members who were at various events, at demonstrations, where unfortunately God's Molotov cocktails were also thrown. That's it! Peter Pilz and many other colleagues; a former member of the “Group of Revolutionary Marxists”. I don't think he left until today. There's a lot of things there. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Repeat this without immunity!]] When Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen comes out today and gives the best in an unreasonable way “stormer” quote, so I cannot understand him. I've never read this paper in my life. I don't know those quotes. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You brought the comparison!]] I hate these quotations. I tell you clearly and clearly: As you have said, I did not mean that, nor did I express it. If you drive that in this direction with your diction, I like to take that term back, because that's not how I meant it. I meant that you've done quite common journalism with all kinds of diffamations, precepts, untruths and also with manipulation, by contrasting images that have nothing to do with me, which were far away from any ethics, far away from every morale, in order to create an image that you just can't allow. That's what I meant! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Especially when it comes to hatred and human hatred, and when it comes to being manipulated and worked with falsehoods, one has to reject it, so one has to show it accordingly. When you experience situations as they have happened to my family in the last few days: Stalking, hundreds of calls, where journalists of my whole family – I'm deliberately saying this here – met with stalking and people from my family environment were contacted, including my ex-wife, and they said to her: If you say anything negative that we can use, we're also willing to pay for it!, that's the worst thing I've ever experienced. That's to be condemned! [[Congratulations to the FPÖ and to Dr. Schüssel and Dr. Stummvoll.]] If – today in some areas such a journalism is lived – photos are made known to the public by me and then are linked to something that these photos have nothing to do with, that is unreasonable, so this is not an objective journalism. If reporting takes place that Strache track leads to the Honsik group and I would have had something to do with the Honsik group, which is false if it goes in a direction that a Nazi monument is addressed, which is none, but a World War I monument, and no more and no less, when a Nazi greeting is addressed, which is none, then it is unreasonable and then one must strongly reject it. Such a journalism has lost nothing in our country! This has nothing to do with objectivity, but only with very ugly methodology, with a very messy infammation, which was apparently carried out quite consciously. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There are also ethics rules to be adhered to in journalism. In all the political debate we all live and wherever we engage in conflicts, sometimes in a not so elegant way, and perhaps sometimes in a rather subversive, polemic way, there have to be certain boundaries, and that should not be exceeded. And that's exactly the type of work that was done here, by making fact distortions and propagandistic presentations, where, in the end, one was a distance from ethics and seriosity and where one threw fact reports completely overboard. If I read today in a daily newspaper that my “Nazi-Deckname” was “Heinrich”, then I can only be affected as a human being if I am confronted with such absurdities because I have nothing to do with a cover name, but because that is my couleur name in my connection. Probably many in the KV, because that's just tradition, have some couleur names, whatever they give themselves. – To be confronted with such nonsense, hurts and is painful. And if you don't feel affected as a human being, then you're not a human being, then you're freezing like an ice cabinet. But that's where you have to sit! Ladies and gentlemen! I did not show this picture to put the German Chancellor of our neighbouring country into a right-wing extremist corner (the speaker shows the cover page of a newspaper on which a counterfee of the German Chancellor can be seen with three scattered fingers of the raised right hand, over which the headline stands: “What does (can) Angela Merkel want?”), not because of it, but because of it, to show an absurdity – a nonsense that a woman, Merkel, has nothing to do with right-wing extremism or neonacism – with certainty – pictured here with three fingered fingers. There are now many pictures to try to see if the old images of Jesus are pictures of Martin Luther’s sermons, no matter where three fingers play a role that have nothing to do with neonacism. From every movement out, in a speech, one can ultimately take compromising photos, which one then manipulates and presents differently in a wrong context. [[Abg. Oillinger: But it wasn't three beers!]] That's what I wanted to show you! I also did not assume, in addition to Finz, that he had a point of view that would point in this direction. In the end, I also expressed the insanity of the journalistic operation: a market for neurotics, a market for slanders, where neurotics are called on the plan, which then give pictures for the best, send images, offer images, let images course where such manipulations can happen. – That’s exactly what it’s all about! We should all be careful and careful that such a market of slanders and a market for neurotics with such manipulation possibilities does not arise. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I referred to the fact that I remember very well that a Gottfried Kussel was a JVP member – although not an active member. [[Call the ÖVP:Come at your own door!]] You have solved this problem. That's crucial! So it would be unreasonable to go here and say: No, that has a method, there's a network behind it! - That's nonsense. And that's exactly what it's all about. [[Call the ÖVP:... credibility!]] “Belief” – that’s exactly the double fate! If today in the ÖVP club a picture of dolphin still hangs, from a fascist, from one who has lived the Austro fascism in this country, then this is the double-soil, where you should finally draw a line! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the case of a man such as Dolfuss, who has put all the state institutions out of power, who has banned the workers' movement, who has issued shooting orders, a line must be drawn in this area, just as it obviously has to be done in the direction of all totalitarians and in the direction of fascism and National Socialism. – That’s what we as democrats expect! And you haven't pulled this line yet, otherwise this picture wouldn't hang in your club, my dear ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP. [[Abg. Newborn: He was the victim of National Socialism!]] Of course, I have to stick to double-beddedness. And that you're defending that shows this double-beddedness right now. That's impossible to defend. And that's exactly what it's all about! If a Mr. Westenthaler said that these pictures remind him of violence, I must say: The only person ever discovered in connection with violence was Mr. Westenthal in the election campaign on the election evening, where he apparently contributed to the fact that someone has become guilty, namely, that he has become violent, and then he has been shown to do so. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] I've never had anything to do with violence! That's what I'm saying in all clarity: I have never had anything to do with violence, crime and the like in my whole life! It just has to be held. Today, if you hear such comparisons as you have put them here today, Mr. Klubobmann Van der Bellen, then you must remember the icon of your Green Movement, Joschka Fischer. Christian Schmidt writes in his book “We Are the Insanity – Joschka Fischer and His Frankfurt Gang” his memories, where it can be read that aggressiveness and brutality have dominated. It also says – I quote –: “For a time Hans Joachim Klein, who was later to become a RAF terrorist and complicit of the terrorist Carlos, was one of these street fighters. In 1978, Klein proudly reported on the battle missions of the ‘Putzgruppe’ in the magazine ‘Der Spiegel’: “There we have gone like the Kesselflickers.” There is another passage that describes – I quote – the following: “Then suddenly a police car burned. One of the two inmates, 23-year-old chief of police Jürgen Weber, did not immediately manage to get out of the car. Finally, some colleagues dragged him off the driver’s seat and rolled him – so the local press – ‘like a living torch’ on the street to suffocate the flames. The next day it turned out that the young policeman's skin had been burned to 60%. The policeman survived very little and became a serious injured person for his further life." There was “a man with beard and glasses, but without a profession: “the 28-year-old Josef Martin Fischer.” – This one, as Christian Schmidt writes, was also a member of these “clean groups” fighters at the time. So no... – I understand that that's enough for you. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's enough!]] But that's enough! This is exactly the point where one must insist that there are in the ranks of the Green violent perpetrators who have not done anything in any youthful, playful way, but who as a 28-year-old consciously had to do with violence, also have not rejected the political murder that has never repented. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What? Are you still all...?]] All of this is in this book, it's documented here. All this is being held here. This has never been apologised, and has never been apologised for these developments. And that's the thoughtful! I say clearly: I drew a very clear line to each totalitarian direction of thought. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have lived this – which can be documented – since my time as a representative on all these issues as a passionate democrat. And I have kept this in all my actions, actions, words and so forth. And that is the final measure to be assessed objectively and correctly – and not to be confronted with such blasphemy efforts to defamation! I say clearly: Everyone – everyone! – the Members present here have a responsibility – namely, a responsibility not to engage in such deep levels in the sense of political change and to operate agitation in this way. And that's exactly what I urge! I could tell you a lot. I could tell you a lot of other things. No, it's cute, I'm not gonna do that. But: Fairness, a fair, correct assessment – and that is exactly what connects us all – is the rejection of a national socialist ideology and its crimes. It would therefore also be advisable not to break these brackets with diffamation, because this is a clamp that covers every democrat in this Republic and where every democrat has an obligation. It was my concern to have said in this seriousness here, because I unfortunately heard things out of God in many words today, where – I say this in this clarity – it was not necessarily done in a dignified way on this subject. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at these standards we are all to be measured that we in this way... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] The fact that you don't like our policy is clear. But we are making a policy for Austrian interests, and we will, of course, continue this policy, which has made us successful, because the Austrians give us the right. This is a very, very important democratic task, which we have as a social Austrian party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That you don't like this and that maybe you prefer the FPÖ, I don't know, to abolish, to ban, I understand from your point of view. No, it has nothing to do with democracy! As a Freedom Party, we are an important democratic factor in this country. We address problems that other parties do not want to recognize or fail to recognize, often also speak beautifully. This is a very, very important task that we are fulfilling in our home country of Austria. And we will continue this task – even if, of course, so many political competitors may not be pleased because we have added back to the survey values and are 14 percent. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Oils.]] I understand that you are excited, Mr Oellinger, when you notice that the Freedom Party is rising again in all survey values and that the Greens have apparently fallen into the survey values in the last few weeks. Then, of course, you start getting a little nervous. That's understandable. But I'm telling you: Then maybe you should think about your policy, questioning it a little if you do not continue to rise in the survey values, but suffer a setback. There will be a reason why the citizens judge this. [[Abg. Oellinger: Thank you for the advice!]] Finally, I would like to say quite clearly: We will continue our political path, which is clearly programmed in the Freedom Party. This path is a way that 11 percent of the Austrians have given great support at the last election. And we will let the Austrians judge how they are assessing our way and how they are assessing your way in the upcoming elections. And this is the nice thing about democracy that there are political contentious discussions that the voters have to assess and not you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11398	At the beginning of the debate, I told Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen not to speak on the matter, I am also doing so with you, Mr Klubobmann Strache. The next item is the speech by Mr Fazekas. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11422	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Estimated members and representatives of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Klubobmann Strache, I take note of your words, if they have been made with some despair. However, I do not believe that the issue is appropriate to point out here that there is a need for political change. This issue is far too serious for this. And there are always these little devastations when again the topic of war memorial has been addressed, which still has other functions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: A monument to the First World War!]] But now on the subject of today's vote on this Federal Ministry Act, ladies and gentlemen. It was discussed and discussed in detail in the government agreement between the ÖVP and SPÖ, also at the last National Council meeting; of course, today's meeting has again been inclined to discuss this issue intensively. But the Federal Ministry Act now has the government programme to be able to implement it technically. And that also gives me the opportunity to highlight a lot of positive things here. Above all, I consider it particularly important to look at what is inside and not what is on it. So I find the approach to put women's agendas close to the Chancellor to be a very positive sign, because women's policy is a very special concern to the Chancellor and thus also the importance is expressed. I consider it sensible and highly necessary to anchor gender mainstream. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Mainstream ing!]] I also think it is a good result that teaching is coupled with art and culture, because I am convinced that it is better to solve it in the field of education, especially, to bring the young people closer to culture and art. I have a little to say about ÖVP-Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel, because, my colleague, you see, the establishment of educational universities in the Ministry of Education is continuing the school policy of the last seven years or maintaining the current school system. This is not the case, however, because I do not think that you or the previous government, to name just two points, have developed realistic models in the past to reduce the number of students in the classroom or to prepare the school entrance phase in the last kindergarten year. But your party may also have taken a little back-up at SPÖ. At least this has been an important step in this direction in our Convention. But this is also a reference to our conflict culture, which we have already mentioned today. Criticism has been to give the pedaks almost to the Ministry of Education. I recognize the fact that the materials are closely linked, for example in the military field, by the membership of the Military Academy to the Federal Ministry of Defence and the establishment of the Security Academy at the Interior. On the basis of this fact, the establishment of pedaks in the Ministry of Education is in no way to be seen as a depreciation from teacher and teacher training at universities. This is primarily about networking on the ground. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is not a comparison!]] With this combination, bureaucratic obstacles are automatically avoided. An essential aspect that will affect all of us sustainable is the aspect of safety linked to sport, ladies and gentlemen. Austria is facing one of the biggest events that will tantalize us in the sports and event areas. There is a need to go to work and try to make sure that everything is done in sport and safety in order to get this event over the stage perfectly. Not only do we have a State Secretary in the Federal Chancellor's Office, but we also have a Federal Sport Chancellor. And that's good, and that's positive. Finally, I would like to remind you once again of the need to ensure that, ladies and gentlemen, what is in the government programme or in this legislative amendment and what doors will be opened by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11497	The next item is Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11518	Madam President. Dear Women Secretary of State! At this item on the agenda, there could have been a lot more to address, among other things, the remarkable fact that the Ministry of Education will no longer be called the Ministry of Education, that the word “education” has disappeared from the Federal Ministry of Ministry of Education, and that we are now speaking of the Ministry of Education at a ministry which is supposed to be responsible for the entire education, de facto from kindergarten to adult education – a fact with which the Minister of Education, as she would like to call it, is anything but satisfied. One could have talked about the fact that, as a university, the educational universities were apparently a label failure, because they did not land in the Ministry of Science, but now landed in the Ministry of Education, although one could of course ask the question who would do the better policy. But after your previous statement, Mr Klubobmann Strache, I would like to hold a few things. You have today after the speech of our clubman Van der Bellen made an actual correction. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: After bowl!]] [[Abg. Strache: After bowl it was!]] - Yes. It was also after Van der Bellen, it was also after bowl. Correct. You spoke after Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen has cited quite in detail what style this newspaper, which you submitted yesterday to Austrian media, has chosen. [[Abg. Strache: I put that under a medium!]] And you are then manifest after lettering by Mr Graf, because you were speaking by Mr. Van der Bellen did not come down here and said that you do not compare the overall Austrian media landscape with the “storm” style, but rather a medium. [[Abg. That's how it is! That's right!]] You think that's better now? Do you think that's better if you hang on your neck to a medium, an Austrian daily, which you seem to have meant, a media group called "stormer"-style? [[Abg. Strache: I took it back in shape! Don't you listen?]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] If you go out here afterwards and say you haven't read it yet, Mr Strache, that doesn't make it any better. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Five times!]] [[Abg. Strache: Didn't you listen to me take this back?]] Every explanation you make makes things worse and not better. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you read the “storm” all the time?]] Mr. Strache to hold this: If you're talking about it, yesterday you'll be holding pictures of former Secretary of State Finz in the media, if you try, if I've got the right thing to say to former German Foreign Minister Fischer, even to have committed these acts of violence, which is completely absurd, I mean, you really have to imagine what you're saying here, which is not dissociating or participating in the political murder, so I don't know what you're giving of yourself. [[Call the FPÖ:No, no, no!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is illustrated! It's in his book!]] Mr. Strache! We hold, there are photos of you where you will be shown with the German neonazi greeting. [[Abg. Dr. Aspock: That's not true at all!]] You can read it in the “profile” where there is an entire gallery of Neonazis, exactly with the same greeting you are pictured with. [[Call the FPÖ: That's a fool!]] We also insist on: ==References== May an event in which the unconditional capitulation of Nazi Germany is thought. That's where you're here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is not a demarcation of National Socialism, which is a conscious game with symbols. And what you're doing here, you should really think about whether you're still ready to sit in this place.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11741	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur did not wish to conclude. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft Federal Ministerial Law Novelle 2007 and the title and receipt in 22 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional request. Mr Ing. Westenthaler requested separate vote with regard to the supplementary request just mentioned. First of all, I will vote on the part of the supplementary proposal and on the part to be taken by the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, who has the inclusion of a new paragraph 24. When I consent, I seek a sign of confirmation. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is also accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Mr Muttonen, Mr Morak, Mr Kickl, Mr Schalle, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on building culture reports. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 9.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Sburny, ladies and gentlemen, on the amendment of the Federal Ministry Act 1986. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the limitation of the number of Federal Ministers and State Secretarys, on the appointment of a State Secretary for Asylum and Foreign Rights and on a State Secretary for Tourism and the Medium-sized Economy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft Constitutional Act amending the Federal Constitutional Act, together with the title and receipt in 23 of the Supplements. On the draft of the present law, Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. Mr Ing. Westenthaler requested separate vote on the points 1 to 4, 5 and 6 included in the amendment or amendment. Finally, Mr Cap, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner and Mr Colleagues have tabled an additional request, together with the resulting amendment to the numbering. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals referred to above and the request for separate voting. Since this draft law is a Federal Constitutional Act, I first of all define the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote within the meaning of Article 82(2) (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal which contains the inclusion of new paragraphs 1 to 4. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Cap, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Fichtenbauer, Mr Scheibner, Mr Scheibner, Mr Cots, on the insertion of new paragraphs 1 to 4. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, who are giving their approval to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. Deputies Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment relating to Article 78(2) and (3) and to the reference number 5 requested. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 78, as amended by the Committee's report, taking into account the requested numbering of Members Dr. Cap, Neugebauer, Dr. Fichtenbauer, Scheibner, colleagues. I would ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues on the insertion of a new point 6. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a sign of approval. – This is the minority and rejected. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. [[17:35:36]] 3rd. Point First reading: Request by Mrs Herbert Scheibner, Members of the European Parliament, concerning a federal law which repeals the inheritance and gift tax law in 1955 (34/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11933	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. Mr Scheibner is the first to speak. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e11960	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! You will certainly remember the debate that took place before the last National Council elections on any tax reform and some fields and sub-divisions. We also heard from the SPÖ: 500 € Release for each household, total volume of a tax reform. Minister of Finance Grasser then voted in favour of an unrestricted abolition of the inheritance tax. We were particularly pleased because half a year ago, in the winter of 2006, when we asked for this in the coalition in the course of another part of a tax relief, he said, not with me. This has been fully discussed. In the SPÖ, there have been votes in favour, for example, Mr Niessl, there have been votes against, the current Minister Darabos, and there have been Members who have taken an interim position, such as the current Secretary of State Matznetter, who has said, no complete abolition, but at least an inheritance tax freedom, i.e. the increase in allowances, for the middle class and for the small. A little bit has passed through the class struggle with Mr Matznetter because he said that large-scale landowners, such as Mr Prinzhorn, should pay inheritance tax. He always forgets – and it was a SPÖ Finance Minister who created this possibility – that the real rich in Austria are excluded because they have parked their money, their assets in foundations, and there is no inheritance tax. But these are once again the uncertainties that always come to light when you get too much involved in ideologies. From our point of view, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of burdening people from a tax duty that is simply not explainable. In the case of the gift and inheritance tax is not explainable, because it is exclusively a taxed asset. As this taxed asset is used by the one who has already paid tax, that should leave him alone. There the State has, then the Minister of Finance has his fingers of this asset to leave of these assets. The fact that this is particularly difficult to explain is now evidenced by the fact that, for example, the Constitutional Court has to deal with the issue of unit values, that therefore, where someone does not keep his money cash in savings, but, for example, invests in real estate, other bases apply. If he puts the money on a savings book, then the tax liability is also covered by 25 percent, but if he has the money practically in the cash register and continues or continues to inherit it, then suddenly there is a tax burden of up to 50 percent, depending on the degree of relativeity of the recipient or the inheritance beneficiary to the donor or heir. It's just not explainable. So big is not the revenue of 140 million euros per year, either, that if it does not have this additional tax revenue, it is said that the state is going to go down. That is why from our point of view, ladies and gentlemen: If you want to create a fair and fair tax system, if you also want to strengthen the understanding of the citizens and especially of the medium-sized enterprises for a tax system, which is necessary to finance the social system, then you simply have to delete this inheritance tax and gift tax. She's unjust, she's not comprehensible, she's unnecessary! Against this background, I hope that you will be able to comply with this important initiative in committee and second reading, in particular by following the ÖVP, the former coalition partner, your former Finance Minister, who has also said that this tax cannot be removed. I hope that we will find a majority in this House in the interests of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12008	Next, Mr Krainer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12030	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! At least in the election campaign, the ÖVP proposed to remove the inheritance and gift tax. [[Abg. Scheibner: No, no, no,...!]] This was one of the very few proposals made by the EIA at all. [[Abg. Lentic: Please! Not again!]] I think if you ask someone on the street today, it's the only thing anyone remembers. [[Abg. Lentsch: We're in a coalition! Get up Oba!]] – The BZÖ has had other ideas, apart from that, but they do not belong here. The only thing I notice is that this seems to be a typical attempt to speculate on political forgetfulness, because those parties who have now called in the election campaign to abolish the inheritance and gift tax are precisely those parties that have caused this tax to triple in 2001 by changing the values of unity in the inheritance and in giving! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true either,...!]] – You were a member of the government at the time, so you will have agreed to this in the Council of Ministers, Mr Scheibner! That's exactly what you did in 2001. And that's a little bit in need of explanation that six years ago you wanted the triple, it tripled – and today you want to abolish it! [[Abg. Scheibner:... calculate! ... your own numbers!]] They have not yet been able to plausiblely explain how this change of mind comes about! The only explanation that I have known so far is rumoured – I can't verify the truth content, it always sounds credible – namely that the former Finance Minister and his former Chief of Finance were at a coffee in the hotel Sacher and they made a little bit of the events of the last months happen, about marriage, and they then have a little – you can read in the minutes exactly what I have said in this regard – also sung about the future. [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did you get this? Did Mr. Matznetter tell you that?]] [[Abg. Lens: Were you there? Did you see that, or do you just say that?]] And there they saw: For God's sake, it could be that sometime – hopefully quite late – inheritance tax would be due!, and they may not want that. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Hornek and Mag. Donnerbauer.]] And – rums! – we simply change the political attitude: Yesterday we tripled it – today we want to abolish it so that we can inherit it free of tax tomorrow! – This is the policy that seems to be being pursued here. The ÖVP seems to have taken up this idea in the absence of its own ideas – as said, hardly anyone can remember others. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Our position here is very simple: We of the SPÖ believe that for an average or a slightly above-average inheritance, no inheritance tax should occur or hardly any inheritance tax. We also believe that farm transfers or court transfers should not fail in the rules of inheritance and gift tax. We are willing to talk about appropriate adjustments, but we believe that someone who was lucky enough to be born into a very capable family or to marry a capable family can also share a small part of this great happiness with society, and this also in the form of inheritance or gift tax. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: “Let him take it away! ”]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12188	Mrs Lentsch's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12237	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear Mr Scheibner, we too of the ÖVP are always thinking about abolishing the gift and inheritance tax, because if someone gives a savings book, then it can be assumed that the savings have already been taxed twice – first of all you have to earn the money first, then you pay on the interest of Kest – and the inheritance tax is finally the third tax on one and the same savings book! [[Abg. Krainer:... wealth!]] Some of us will think: It can't be! Get out of it! - But it's not that simple. [[Abg. Krainer: But the Kest does not tax wealth!]] - They were just at the speaker's desk. Let me talk now! It's not that simple, because we have to be aware that we have very little room for budget. And we're not about 140 million euros here, we're actually about every million – for the simple reason, because we don't want to leave the solid budget course in recent years. And, of course, we also need to create clear rules for the foundations, because we cannot compare tax-saving large assets with the savings book of a pensioner, speak of the savings book of a grandmother who wants to pass this savings book on to her grandchildren. The People's Party has therefore always been committed to major solutions. This also applies to the inheritance and gift tax. And it has certainly been discussed, and you also know that these taxes will then be integrated into a larger tax reform. That's good. That request is therefore assigned to the Financial Committee by the BZÖ. There we will discuss this request in detail. Of course, you also have to look at what this has an impact. That's good. Everything else wouldn't be responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12299	Next, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann speaking. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12321	Madam President. High house! First of all, to remember: Tax on wealth has been very low in international comparison in Austria and has fallen continuously in recent years. Austria is known to be the final light among the states of the European Union, as measured by the tax revenue. In other words, In Austria, assets pay much less for the common good than in other countries. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Now to the request of the BZÖ: Mr Scheibner, you have argued that this tax is unexplainable and have used the argument of double taxation, which, moreover, has been used by Mr Lentsch once again. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] I would have thought that this argument has been overcome since the introduction of the capital income tax, because at that time, at Kreisky's time, the discussion was about the introduction of the interest rate tax, and at that time was already argued: Here we tax once again! [[Abg. Scheibner: These are only the interest rates, the increase!]] Mrs Lentsch! If I buy a pack of cigarettes in the trafik out of savings, I also have a multiple taxation. Following your argument, I would also have to abolish the tobacco tax, I would have to abolish VAT, and the capital income tax on it! [[Abg. Lens: This comparison, however, is very difficult! That's not a comparison!]] If I represent the opinion – and I do – that heredity increases performance and confers on me the principle of efficiency of taxation, then I must say yes to the inheritance tax! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: That's not true! That is less power, the inheritance tax!]] It's not less power! It increases performance, and we are following the principle of performance in Austria, I think, in the taxation of income, and we have therefore also enshrined the principle of progression in the Income Tax Act. Mr Scheibner. They speak of a fair and fair tax system. [[Abg. Scheibner: Exactly!]] Explain to me how a tax system can be fair and fair, which is increasingly less taxing the wealth in our country! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is your law!]] In the past, many asset taxes have already been abolished – from property tax to stock exchange sales tax. Of the private foundations, which are, so to speak, a mezzie for the rich and superrich in the country, we do not want to speak at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you introduced! You have introduced the foundations!]] And if, like the Greens, someone believes that we want to prevent a concentration of assets, a further concentration of assets in the country, have a tax system with a balanced tax structure – keyword: Release of the factor of work – then you must make a clear commitment to inheritance tax! [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Of course – I give you the right – there is a tax margin in this system because the system has grown. But precisely because there is a tax return in this system, a fundamental reform of the inheritance and gift tax is required. And if today I hear from the representatives of the SPÖ and the ÖVP a confession to the inheritance tax, I lack a bit of faith because I find nothing in the government agreement at all – it's silent!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12485	The next point is Mr Grastaur's speech. 3 minutes welcome. [[Abg. Graubur: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Four, please!]] You can also have 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12522	High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The new Social Minister, Buchinger, yesterday called for the introduction, or re-introduction, of wealth tax in the midday “cib”. Assets over €500 000 should be taxed at 0.5 percent. – Is this, Mr Minister, a class-wing relapse, or has your coalition partner turned off the sources of money that you are now trying to open up new sources of money? We say of the liberals in any case: That's the wrong way! We should not introduce new taxes, but, if it is possible, we should reduce taxes and abolish useless taxes! And above all, we should ask ourselves the question: How else can we be saved in the state? – We are always talking about new burdens, but if you follow the results of the Convention, you know that in the state of Austria there are savings potentials of €3 billion per year in the administration: by reducing double tracks – ask the people who are sitting in the Convention!; there they are –, reduction of administrative and political posts, simplification of administration et cetera. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Tell us how to do this!]] And I am very excited whether the great coalition will be able to implement these things. But now to this proposal. The former Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser called for the abolition of the inheritance and donation tax in August of last year, and he said that the effort to collect was greater than the proceeds – according to his text. And I imagine that the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ Group also made the same sound before the election. Afterwards, of course, it looks different again. And even tax expert Werner Doralt said in December that the inheritance tax is being tipped by the Constitutional Court because there are 80 different tax rates and the amount depends on the things that are donated or inherited: For example, there is no tax on savings books and on shares, but very probably tax on cash, and again other rates on real estate and property! This law is opaque, unclear and unfair, because already taxed assets are taxed again. The President of the Constitutional Court of Korinek also mentioned that much does not fit in with the inheritance tax. The abolition of this inheritance and gift tax has been a long-standing requirement of the Freedom-Economics Association, to which I belong, and especially in the case of the succession of businesses within the family, the abolition of these taxes is essential. The SMEs are in Austria employer number one – this is known. Over the next ten years, approximately 60 000 businesses will be handed over, of which 440 000 will be employed. These new young entrepreneurs often have to take up funds to pay the inheritance tax. The result is bad creditworthiness – think of Basel II –, miserable capital structure and a bad start for young entrepreneurs. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: This is what Mr Rossmann wants!]] For all these reasons, we support this proposal by the Freedom Party. Not introducing new taxes, but abolishing unfair, unwise taxes – that is what we stand for!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12575	Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12596	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In the late summer of last year, Mr and Mrs Österreicher welcomed the announcement by the then Minister of Finance that they would like to abolish the inheritance and gift tax. All the media reported about it. Even in the election campaign, it was very intensively advertised – from the BZÖ for the reason because the inheritance tax introduced in 1955 entails a lot of injustices. Whether Grasser has just announced the abolition of the inheritance tax, because the Constitutional Court of Justice has also worked on it in terms of unit value measurement, I am not aware of it. And Mr Matznetter, in his opposition role as Budgetary Spokesman, has also acted in favour of not burdening at least the small ones with the inheritance tax. To my surprise, there is nothing left to do with the government programme. Now I can also understand Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, who mourns the former Minister of Finance, but I can calm him down: Mr Klubobmann, you have us who, as a former government partner, we thank God for reminding you of what you promised before the election, and now we ask you to do so. As you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, continue to make the Minister of Finance, you are fulfilling your election promise and you are acting – for multiple reasons! – I can get out of the "Press" of the 8th. Cite August 2006: ‘In practice, the inheritance tax has long been abolished.’ – And the author of this editorial, Michael Pruller, goes on to say: “For the sumptuous profit of 140 million euros per year (0.36 percent of all taxes and taxes), heirs, notaries, courts, book offices, banks, experts and countless financial officials are dealing with complicated procedures that, according to finance ministers, cost more than they contribute.” I think the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State should see this the same way. In addition, the inheritance tax system is very unfairly regulated. Scholars and experts, as reported by the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, also feel that the inheritance tax in the current form is unfair. Many exceptions, especially for foundations and securities, have even employed the Constitutional Court because of the breach of the principle of equality. In contrast to the inheritance of a savings book, which is free of inheritance tax, this is not the case in the case of the inheritance of houses, properties and commercial holdings: The value of the property and the degree of relativeity determine here the inheritance tax. The higher the value of the house, property or farm, the more distant the higher the inheritance tax. Thus, there are massive strains on heirs, and often inheritances can be made of real estate and Homes cannot be accepted or taken over in the sense of the heirs, since the inheritance or the inheritance cannot afford the inheritance unless cash is available on a savings book basis. The inheritance tax is also severe in the case of the heirs of small and medium-sized enterprises. For example, if you inherit a commercial company worth € 1 million from your aunt, you will have to pay about € 400 000 in tax for it. If one wants to continue with such a plant, it demands a certain degree of risk from each individual, and in many cases the existence of the company is on the tip. I don't think you can answer that! The inheritance tax hits here exactly that shift that prevents the emergence of a two-class society, namely the middle class, which is the engine of the economy! According to the Chamber of Commerce, almost 30 percent of company transfers to the next generation are imminent – and these are more than 40,000 companies, just so you have a term of them. Only if heirs do not become multi-loaded can you be sure that even ideal values will continue to exist! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12651	Mrs Tamandel's next speech. Also 3 minutes of welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12673	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! If I listen to my previous speakers like this, I think some apples have been mixed with pears. To compare the capital income tax with the inheritance and gift tax is probably not right, Mr Rossmann, because normally it was before the capital income tax or interest tax was introduced at the time by 10 percent, so that everyone actually had to announce his interest in the income tax declaration. In other words, this has been a relief for taxpayers, then a flat-rate final taxation, a capital income tax or a interest rate tax. But the inheritance and gift tax is a classic domestic double taxation, which is, of course, unfair, and I can tell you that I myself am also in favour of abolishing the inheritance and gift tax. I would just like to remind you – all those previous speakers who have meant that there is nothing in the government programme – that is: If you look at the chapter Finance, you will see that the Federal Government is committed to tax relief or tax reform during this legislative period. That is, at the time when the budget allows it, or when there are sufficiently large concepts for a tax reform, one will consider when the right time for a tax reform will be. I believe that we should not start turning there and there now, but I think we should really agree on an overall concept. We will also have to decide on the budget in the next few months. I believe that we should, of course, also consult the Financial Committee on the request, that we should all consider for and against it, because there are, of course, injustices, family houses inherited or donated, as well as small assets in the family association or, of course, in the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, as far as family transfers are concerned. But I'm afraid that's what we'd say: This is what we are doing, we are going to take off the inheritance and gift tax right now!, we have to reopen on another side and say: Now we're going to do this again and that tax we're changing, or we're gonna get rid of it. That means: Let's wait for a tax reform! I am very confident that our Minister of Finance Molterer will continue the successful course. We have already shown at the last tax reform that we have abolished a number of charges. I will also bring myself into my group thematically and I am convinced that we can carry out a good and sensible tax relief and create a modern tax system for all Austrians.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12718	Next, Mr Praßl. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12739	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Scheibner's request, ladies and gentlemen, for the abolition of the inheritance and gift tax law is aimed at the one hand, and on the other hand, we should consider it precisely. They say that this tax should be abolished because it burdened the transition of assets between generations, and it also charged corresponding acquisitions of companies. I believe that this should be considered very well, because this is a total of about € 140 million. I also believe that the government programme has established that we will take such measures in the form of tax reliefs, and I am convinced and hope that the new Vice-Chancellor and Finance Minister Mag. Wilhelm Moltererdiesen will continue to pursue an intensive tax relief course – in the sense of the Austrian population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12776	Mr Zweytick has now come to speak. A speaking time of 3 minutes will be desired. Please, Mr Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12797	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already said a lot of important and right things about inheritance and property tax, and I recognise all the contributions in summary, but moving in every group of this House to see that this law, which was introduced more than 60 years ago in this country, has long since ceased to be modern and that there is a need to repair something here, because many things are no longer in agreement. In addition, the Constitutional Court here places us more or less in the window with regard to the principle of equality. This is actually right, which the many Members have already explained in different ways. There is no doubt that it is a complicated, complex procedure and high administrative costs are incurred. It is seen by many as a disadvantage, especially by employers, by entrepreneurs. SMEs have already been mentioned here, small businesses, family farms, and, of course, it also has an impact in the agricultural sector, in the so important rural area, where the farms have been and will be inherited for centuries, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for small businesses, the funds are not available to the extent that we naturally would like them to be. I think it would have to be a great relief here, because it is also about jobs. It is in the sense that these farms are continued and the workplace farm or small business, family business, remains. Especially in rural areas, where, as I believe, in the future the energy economies of the country are going to be active in the future – environmental, energy policy – more resources would be available to invest in this area as well. Here I see a great opportunity, especially in the production of renewable energy for the environment. It is necessary to give these people new opportunities, not to burden them, but to pay them off. This is, I believe, a command of the hour for which we, all 183 Members here, were ultimately elected by people in this country. We are, I think, on a good path. It will take a few months, because, as my colleague said, the time for a tax reform must be “fit” and such a reform must be manageable. Then, I believe, we will also be doing a great deal of service to the country and to the people of that country. I'm very confident. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12843	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 34/A to the Financial Committee. [[18:07:42]] 4. Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues on a federal law with which the farmer Law of the Republic of Germany 1992, BGBl. No. 375, as last amended by the Federal Act BGBl. 298/1995 and BG BGBl. 420/1996, as amended (22/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12895	We're on the 4th. Agenda item. The applicant is the first to speak. Mr Deputies, the speaking time you have requested is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e12919	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The aim of the present initiative is to develop, develop and develop organic farming as an agricultural model, and thus to use opportunities for the future by defining organic farming as a perspective, as a vision, as an opportunity, as a future orientation. – This is the part of this initiative proposal. The second part is: In order to ensure this perspective – Mr Eßl, you already have 40 percent organic farming in Salzburg; good conditions! – to ensure the use of non-genotechnic seed – that is the basis of organic farming. This is the great opportunity for the agricultural seed production in Austria: The Seeding Linz and Seeding Danube and the combination of the Seeding Initiatives also in the rural and small farming area – this is the great chance for Austrian agriculture to be offensively positioned here. I would point out that the government programme of SPÖ and ÖVP unfortunately only contains a short sentence on organic farming, namely: Bio-agriculture is to be further expanded. [[Abg. Sieber: Yes!]] – Positively, Mr Sieber, of course, but it would have been necessary to take the measures to identify the elements of such a policy – and this has now been done to the spokesperson of the SPÖ, who is unfortunately not there, to colleagues Kurt Gaßner. There is now the opportunity to look at the perspective with this initiative proposal, to put the future in concrete terms in a law. Let's write it in, Mr Wimmer. We are developing a perspective in the Committee on Agriculture, which we bear together! This is really my offer to all political groups, including colleagues from the FPÖ. I believe that this is the challenge of moving together on such important issues as genetic engineering and organic farming and looking for alliances on these issues. And if you do not agree with one or another proposal: I am prepared to discuss this in committee. Let's talk about it! Why? – Because this is the challenge, because organic farming not only means healthy food, healthy food, but also means future opportunities for rural agriculture in Austria, it means serving the markets really. Mr Eßl, we both know. [[Abg. Eßl: We can do that too!]] – That's what we can do: That is, I would say, a false modesty. This is a false modesty, Mr Eßl, because we are facing the challenge of the agriculture of the 21st century. It is clear from the century, and that is organic farming. And here I come to the international perspective. This is not just a question of the miners, the small farmers in Austria, but that is the challenge in global competition, in the global development scenario. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] Yes, of course, Mr Sieber, because the challenge is to reduce hunger worldwide. And organic farming is a circular agriculture, which is also an opportunity for developing countries. In Africa, in South America, in Australia, where you are looking, in the Philippines, in India, yes throughout Asia – there are biological farming movements everywhere, and these are our friends, these are our partners. And this agricultural practice is a contribution to active climate protection, because the organic farming builds up, increases the humus – that is, the valuable in the soil and at the same time the CO2 storage – and the soil fertility, the basis of the diet of the 21. ==References== This is a very clear orientation, that is the political orientation of our request. There are enormously many lip confessions by our non-present Minister of Agriculture. I also do not argue that there was some good measure in the last period; no question at all. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: (who has just entered the hall and goes to his place) Many! Very good!]] Mr Auer, you are coming too late – unless you want to join our request in committee or actively participate in this debate. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In the agricultural policy, the Pirklhuber is always too late!]] I strongly invite you to do so, and I would really feel that it is also the opposition, if exactly what has been announced, namely to take the arguments of the opposition seriously, is also implemented by this example and this is actually lived. Mr Wimmer, that would be a great opportunity, and therefore my appeal to the SPÖ: I hope we really come to a concrete discourse. And my appeal to you, Mr Auer: In the first Committee on Agriculture, and I am really asking you to do so, this request should be on the agenda so that we can agree on a procedure. I am willing to do whatever you then propose to find a common procedure. But we should seriously discuss this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13022	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13043	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, I have found that you have not read the Government Convention very carefully. Otherwise, you'd find that a lot of things you've been talking about are likely to be given a solution. [[Abg. Sburny: Maybe!]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal is not bad, that the considerations, the intentions based on this request, are basically correct and reasonable. But maybe a few more facts about this – and you have just mentioned it: Austria can also be seen in this context. Austria has one of the highest proportions of organic farms in the whole of Europe. We are almost top riders here, we are in the top European field, and that is a good thing. For us, organic farming has always had a high priority for social democrats – you know that very much – because it is of course about protecting our groundwater better than before. We know the problems, we know the problem regions, where, unfortunately, drinking water can no longer be provided in sufficient quality. We know the problem of species protection – and that has already been mentioned – and of course we also know the problem of animal husbandry. Of course, it is true that organic farming in particular can be of great help here. That is why it was particularly important for us to put particular emphasis on the government programme in the field of agriculture. I am of course particularly pleased, as a Socialist MEP, when the government groups SPÖ and ÖVP have previously made a clear commitment to continuing the successful path of our bio-businesses and to continue to support them with all their strength. Another point, which is very important in future agricultural policy, is the safeguarding of genetic engineering freedom. Here are, I think, three points that really need to be considered: It is about defending the national bans, creating functioning co-existence schemes, and it is about the intention of the Federal Government to support the federal states when voluntary genetic engineering-free regions are created. That is, essential parts of your request, Mr Pirklhuber, are provided for in the government programme and will also be implemented. In fact, your application will be dealt with by the government programme. You'd have the opportunity to withdraw him now.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13093	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13114	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! There is no reason, as requested in the present proposal, to amend the Agriculture Act. Austria is still organic country number one in Europe! The current Green Report shows that more than 20,000 farms run around 361,000 hectares of organic farming. This corresponds to 15 percent of the total area. Compared to Europe, Austria is very far ahead, even lonely at the top. In Europe, around 4 percent of the area is organically managed. With the Green Pact, which guarantees sustainable and ecologically oriented agriculture, Austria is committed to a quality-oriented food and agricultural policy. That Austrian food, regardless of whether organically or conventionally produced, enjoys very high international reputation proves the keen interest in our products during the last Green Week in Berlin. In addition, Austria can have a positive agricultural trade balance with a 10 percent increase in 2006. Austria is one of the last bastions of genetic engineering freedom. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, no! That's not true!]] For example, the discussion process initiated by Federal Minister Josef Pröll during the Austrian Presidency, with the GVU conference held at this time, showed the importance of the topic of genetic engineering freedom for Austrian agriculture. Most of the farmers, but also consumers, are in favour of non-genotechnic products. Especially Upper Austria, which, together with Tuscany, has created the European network of non-genotechnic regions, is in a pioneering role here. Together with 40 other European regions from all over Europe, the network is committed to the right of the regions to declare non-genotechnic zones. The fact that this path is a stoner shows the actions and negotiations before the European Court of Justice. However, the fact that it is correct shows the will of consumers on non-genotechnic agricultural products and foodstuffs. This Federal Government has expressed its support in its Government Convention for the defence of national prohibition regulations and is in favour of a functioning co-existence system at European level. Freedom of choice and therefore freedom of genetic engineering for organic, but also for conventionally managed plants and for consumers must be guaranteed in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13154	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. A speaking time of 3 minutes will also be desired. I would draw attention to the fact that the liberal club has a total of 8 minutes remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13175	Madam President. High house! The facts of the Austrian agriculture: In 1995 we had 236,000 farms, 2005 189 000, which means a minus of 47 000 farms in ten years. That means: Every day 15 businesses die in Austria – every day! As a result, we have a drop of 92 000 workers in domestic agriculture. That's a fact, that's to be held, and this isn't the place where beauty dyes are drawn. What is happening here in Austria is a disaster, not only for agriculture, but also for all related areas, for rural culture and also for tourism. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Caricature...!]] [[Abg. Eder: Right!]] And if the farmer dies, the country dies – not only in Austria, but throughout the European Union! Now we note, ladies and gentlemen of Red and Black, that we still have a 30 percent reduction in organic farmers in the Green Pact's funding ratio: 114 million, now 80 million. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Black and Blue/Orange this has been over the past seven years!]] Such a radical reduction is the wrong signal and will cause organic farmers to continue to give up their operation. In addition, the funding jungle, which the EU gives us and which represents an almost insurmountable obstacle to small agriculture. The EU has failed with this agricultural policy! We call for a renationalisation, in other words, an unbundling of the burden of support. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's wrong! Everything else was right so far!]] How can this happen? – Among other things, with the creation of a support fund for all farms, regardless of the size of the farm, in order to promote jobs in agriculture. Now to genetic engineering: Mr Pirklhuber, thank you for these ideas! Of course, genetic engineering is completely contrary to the Austrian bioland. Please explain to me how a co-existence between the Austrian bioland and genetic engineering should be possible. This is probably just an illusion; a coexistence is not possible! How do you want to prevent pollen from being driven from the wind to the neighboring field of bio construction? Or how do you explain to a bee that it should not go to a genetic engineering field? Coexistence is not possible. So we need to see that we're preventing genetic engineering. Ladies and gentlemen, I will, of course, do everything I can to support this request from you. If we save our agriculture from the access of the genetic engineering companies, we stand for free farmers and a free country!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13250	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 3 minutes speaking time is required.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13284	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Everyone who knows me would have to know that organic farming is very important to me. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Now I'm curious!]] I am very, very proud of the fact that we are currently in Austria with 15 percent of Europe's peak. I'm sure I wasn't indifferent to that, you can take it from me. Without me and the Billa Group, we would not be so far today, and we have taken a lot of money into our hands to further develop it. [[Abg. Prince: That's right!]] However, on your request, Mr Pirklhuber, it should be noted that this cannot be done without commercial farming. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But not in the request!]] I would just remind you that, from an economic point of view, a general organic farming would lead to a reduction in quantities and thus to an unfavourable price for consumers. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:...not in there!]] I take just one example of how animal husbandry becomes quite clear that it is impossible to give up commercial farming: We already have too little poultry, we don't get through. I'm with you all the time: If it went to me, I would prefer to have all of Austria biologically. We do not need to talk about this, but that will not be feasible; we still have to convince agriculture very much. I don't think we're gonna do that. But I think that there is a middle path, both for organic farming and for commercial, normal agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as genetic engineering is concerned: I don't know if you've seen the movies about what's happening in Central America with genetic engineering changes. There, most of the peasantry will get into the ruins! They have no chance of survival, which depends on large businesses. I think that's not the way we can go in Austria! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Here I am with you: We need to do everything – before we know where genetic engineering is going – to abandon genetic engineering in Austria! - That's it. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Right! Let's still convince the SPÖ...!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13381	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13402	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pirklhuber, you have said that we must take decisions that we can all carry together. – The decisions we take here have only the farmers to carry! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, the decisions...!]] Mr Pirklhuber, you have also said that we must ensure that the fertile soils provide for the 21st century. ==References====External links== – The farmers in this country have been working for centuries with their work, carried by a healthy house mind, to ensure that the soils in Austria are out and the people have enough to eat. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] On your request, Mr Pirklhuber, I can only recommend: Look at the policy of recent years and read the new government agreement! You will see some of your wishes fulfilled. However, many of your demands are recognized again, Mr Pirklhuber, how you are acting by the Greens especially in the agricultural policy. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There are only two!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Are you talking about...?]] The Austrian farmers are already largely complying with their approach to soil-bound and species-friendly animal husbandry. In your demands for ever new intensifications in the agricultural laws, you will in no way be aware that many, especially small farms, are unable to cope with the financial burden associated with it or can only be very difficult. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is not an intensification!]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is a guide!]] Moreover, you have obviously heard nothing from the individual human-animal relationship based on the fact that calves have to be used to human touch. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Don't stand in the request!]] The boxing for calves that you so force leads calves to develop a great shyness from the human being. This leads, for example, to immense stress for humans and animals in the case of loading activities, and the risk of injury also increases significantly for both. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: colleague Sieber, slow...!]] Mr Pirklhuber, I invite you: Come on. You once to me to Vorarlberg, then we can go together to a livestock market or to an alpine day, and then you can try loading boxing cattle! You are cordially invited! Then you'd see what the whole thing looks like in practice. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Have you read the application?]] Also, due to the mandatory group management of calves, there is increasingly no significant economic damage due to the mutual suckling of the calves. To understand this, you need to talk to the local practitioners. But there I've never met anyone from the greens. [[Congratulations and bravoruf at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: But that's...!]] Maximum good for every farmer's family are healthy, long-lasting and therefore powerful animals. These factors favour the emotional bond between humans and animals and are the daily motivation for the hard work of our farmers. The Austrian farmers' families would be much more helped if our strict legal conditions of origin and production were to apply to all agricultural and food imports. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Here I am!]] More bans and bans would simply be hypocritical! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There lies our request from the last legislative period...!]] Because it would move value creation abroad, and there the animals would be kept under conditions that we all reject – I think you too!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13596	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 22/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. [[Calls and calls between Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber and Deputies of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps You are making this debate take place outside the hall – although I would ask you to stay here, since the presence is no longer very intense. [[18:28:23]] 5. Point First reading: Request by Dr. Peter Fichtenbauer, colleagues on a federal law amending the General Civil Code (ABGB) (46/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13647	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant is the first to speak. Please, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13674	Madam President. High house! The issue is probably just as serious as it was before. It's about human life. By a court of the Supreme Court, which is now to be referred to as confirmed, the compensation for damages against a doctor who has not sufficiently clarified, thereby having been subject to the discrimination of the deprived abortion of a child who has finally been brought to the world as a disability, a second decision of 2005, published in 2006, has been published in 2006, stating that, different from another decision which has not been granted compensation for a child who has been deprived of abortion of a healthy child, a different Judicatur is to be found: “Wrongful Birth” – a cause for damages; “Wrongful Conception” – is not harmful. These lines of decision have led to a storm of excitement – justified excitement – both in the medical and legal spheres, and I could not afford to call these different basic ethics hidden in the decision – of course not so pronounced – a Judicatur in the sense of “lifeless life”. I cannot and do not want to go to the agenda. In view of the fact that the Supreme Court is clearly not going to go away from the judicial line in question in a decision which has already been adopted or has been made repeatedly, the specialist world – I repeat – also the legal and medical profession, there have already been some symposia about it, I refer to press reports, “profile” reports – says that only a legislative measure can open up a way out of this dead end. I propose with this initiative a solution aimed at ensuring that no claim for damages can be derived from the fact that a human being is born. Despite the perhaps critical sentence of two of the proposal that, if the law is adopted or if the law is signed, existing claims should be null and void – but I dare to propose that sentence two – I believe that employment with this matter should be a currently uncontrollable, unwholesome state, which should also be anchored in medical advice – I refer again to the “profile” report of 23. October of the previous year – the It simply tempts a woman to be forced to seek abortion in doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this to be a condition which cannot be pushed into the long bank from the point of view of the Austrian Parliament and cannot be taken away. I would like to ask you to reject this idea – a medical error based on the fact of birth – and I am looking forward to the lively discussion that is likely to have its place in the judicial committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13729	Mrs Stadlbauer's next speech. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13750	Madam President. High house! The application therefore suggests that § 22 ABGB, which regulates the legal status of unborn and dead-born children, be an Abs. 2 to supplement according to which a claim for damages is excluded from the fact that a person is born. The application was formulated as a result of OGH decision 1 Whether 9/99 k, by which, I quote, “on the basis of the birth of a disabled child, a claim for damages against a doctor has been granted” which, according to the Court of First Instance,“ has failed to inform about the (heavy) disability of the unborn child, so that the emerging mother has not responded in such a way... to have an abortion done in good time”. – We can also read this in the application. Mr Fichtenbauer argues with apparent ethical arguments. However, if you look at this more precisely and in particular legally, it turns out that the present application is still sufficiently unexplored or that overall the proposed regulatory content is not sufficiently well thought out. Let's see what's in the ABGB right now. In Section 1293, “damage” is defined as follows: “damage means any disadvantage that has been done to someone in the wealth, right or in the person. This is different from the loss of profit that a person has to expect after the ordinary course of things.” That is, the question in question is whether the birth of a disabled child can be a damage. In my opinion, an answer was very impressive, not a lawyer, but a highly respected journalist, namely Elfriede Hammerl, in an issue of the “profile” of January 2007. She writes under the title “Dad Child? ” “Life may be a gift. But some pay more for it than others.” – I quote: “Is a disabled child a harm? Not the child. But it's disabled. A disability or a severe illness is a damage to the affected person and his family. The claim that a child is a happiness, a gift, and everything else doesn't count, that says easily, but actually she is bordering on cynicism. You could say just as well after an accident or a body injury: What damage, what pain money, the victim lives for, that’s the main thing, life is a gift!” “Disability plays a role in reality. Life-long care and increased costs are the result.” – Quotes. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of this bill would therefore mean a deterioration of the legal and, above all, actual position of disabled children and their parents. The impact of this request would be such that the position of the doctor would in itself be more legal, but this would result in the consultation of the woman concerned not being so detailed and, where appropriate, the decision-making capacity to restrict women's freedom of choice would be limited. We won't let that happen, we don't want to. Women's free choice remains the most important thing. But a development towards defensive medicine should not, of course, be in the interests of the patients and doctors. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: woman's decision? “My belly belongs to me”...?]] It is therefore not bad that this request is now on the agenda. I hope that we can discuss this important matter on the subject and, hopefully, come up with solutions. This does not appear to be appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13787	Next, Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13808	Madam President, High house! The proposal and the underlying Judicatur, the facts that play a role in these decisions, undoubtedly lead us to a very sensitive situation. Not only is it the judicial system, but it is our legal system at all, because in this area it is simply the weighting or the supposed weighing which comes from these judgments, between the protection of life on the one hand and the contractual duty of protection and care and the liability for a breach on the other. It is, I believe, very important to say that, on the one hand, this judicture makes it quite clear that the birth of a child is not a harm – that is one thing, and that is to be emphasized, I believe, very important – that, on the other hand, it is of course – and the consequence derived from the Supreme Court's decisions in the above-mentioned decisions, that it is related to legal possibilities for the abortion of disabled children and, therefore, the doctor's information about it plays a very important role for the mother. In so doing, I believe that the consequence of these judgments – I am quite right for the applicant – must be considered. It must not and should not be found that a difference is made between healthyly born children and disabled children. But, on the other hand, I believe that the path proposed here is in the wrong direction, because this would ultimately minimize the doctor's and treatment facilities' obligation to inform and also the need for a doctor's liability for his treatment and for his advisory activities would be virtually removed from the table. This is, I believe, the tension in which we are moving and which we must take into account in the course of the further discussion in the Committee on Justice. I'm excited about the further discussion. I think it's a very important one, a delicate one. and also an exciting area, and I hope that we will simply come up with even better solutions to this problem than, so to speak, just to eliminate liability at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13850	Mr Grünewald. — (NL) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13872	Thank you, Mr President. High house! I understand the storm of indignation. But we have to consider whether these proposals do not trigger an hurricane whose consequences we do not know. In principle, it must be held, and no one says anything else in this respect that no liability is arising from the mere fact of a birth, except that it would be associated with an unlawful misconduct. In your application, illegal misconduct due to this storm of disarmament is negated at all, negated. It can't be! For a better understanding: There are also diseases during the development of an embryo to a child capable of giving birth, which can be treated in the uterus. There are already minor or moderate heart defects in the fruit bubble. If something is done wrong here, false diagnostics take place here, do you really want to say that there is no liability claim? Should a medical specialist such as prenatal diagnostics, so to speak, be handled through a liability right without ensuring quality? Whether genuinely generated claims should be erased retroactively? – That is unconstitutional! Well, that's what experts say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] What is the symbolism of this application? He is opposed to the freedom of a woman – and this is a fundamental right also in Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights – to choose to have a pregnancy or to interrupt it. If false judgments were made in the context of this decision, false diagnosis would, of course, be a legal claim, and I would necessarily insist on it as a woman. The fact that it is children who are not harmed, but who are taking time, who need intensive spending, the nerves, and who also cost more money, if they are to be well cared for, should suddenly cease to face this liability with remuneration, is precisely discrimination against these disabled people. So: Before taking something out of the sleeve, whose consequences one does not know, I would strongly recommend that an expert commission be convened and made aware of what would trigger such a radical cut. And again: Birth is not a liability unless grossly negligent action is taken in the diagnostics. And then there's the civil law path, and I wouldn't want to take this away from a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13924	Mr Darmann has now come to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13945	Thank you, Mr President. High house! Of course, the birth of a human being in itself can never be a harm, no question, and I clearly note this here. However, it is also unnecessary to discuss the applicant's concern that an unvalued life model would be accepted by the Austrian legislator. There is no unvalued life, and there is no child as a harm either. However, there may be injury cases – and related claims for damages – related to the birth of a child, and this is precisely one of the cases cited by the applicant. Of course, the damage in the form of the maintenance obligation for a disabled child is higher than for a child who is not disabled. This higher maintenance could be claimed as compensation. Completely absurd and not in conformity with the Austrian Constitution at all, the claim in the application is that all titles, which are harmfully based on the fact that a person is born, are declared ineffective because of the previous Judicature. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: That's not absurd!]] This claim of the applicant would speak of any separation of violence Hohn, for the legislator would thereby refer to all judicial judgments. This is certainly not to be reconciled with the Austrian Constitution. If the application further claims that all claims for damages relating to the fact of the birth of a human being should be excluded, the applicant shall completely overlook the fact that, in connection with the birth of the person, it is very likely that guilty behaviour must lead to claims for damages. From this point of view, Mr Fichtenbauer's request is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e13982	Mr Eder spoke next. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14003	Madam President. High house! I ask for an understanding in advance that as a long-term practical doctor, in my first speech here in this House, I am also dealing with this difficult subject in the near future from the doctor's point of view. We have heard that this request is based on a complex medical and legal problem, which raises many questions. Both cases described by Dr. Fichtenbauer are in common that the existence of the child after the OGH's judgment has finally resulted in an incorrect conduct of the doctor and the birth against the will of the parents. What are the questions raised? First of all, we need a legal rule in the right of compensation to provide guidance and guidance to applicants and lawyers, in particular on the question of whether a child, in whatever constellation, can be a damage at all. I am of the opinion, and this is also in line with the human image of our family, that we should be based on the principle: Human life can never be a damage. The assessment of a human being as a loss burdened on the family and society, as it were, contradicts human dignity. And this dignity is indivisible and independent of whether a person is sick or healthy. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Some experts believe that a damage would be seen in the form of the maintenance obligation. I think disabled people deserve the full solidarity and support of our society. The OGH has, at the end of its judgment, a Doctor sentenced to compensation because his information was insufficient and led to the failure to end the pregnancy within the legal period. This is why, of course, in the public debate, the subject of the comprehensive information and information requirement of patients was also the main focus, not only in relation to prenatal diagnostics, but in general, and this has led to great uncertainty within the medical community. It is increasingly becoming a problem in medical treatment if, despite the much-invited, responsibility remains only more with the doctor. A doctor must be able to rely that a patient's assignment to a special ambulance for further clarification of a suspicion diagnosis also results, and we should not allow doctors to stop using important simple screening methods because they can no longer offer 100% certainty of statement. This would lead to a defensive and security medicine full of distrust and fear. The medical treatment process would be hindered and no longer manageable, and costs would rise. We have also seen this in the increase in frequency in prenatal studies. It should not be so far that the doctor's visit will in future be characterised by the reading of leaflets, filling out forms, signatures for insurance, and perhaps even the personal advice of the doctor is too short. However, this is increasingly the case if only more of the recipient horizon is seen as the decisive factor in informing the doctor. That means: Not what the doctor says is crucial – as provided in the law itself – but as the patient understands. Medical action must continue on the basis of a relationship between the doctor and the patient and the The doctor's courage to make a quick decision for the benefit of the patient. The discussion of the subject matter of the application is undoubtedly useful, but it should be conducted in the relevant bodies in peace. Finally, it is about creating legal certainty for all stakeholders and stakeholders. Dear Members of the House! In any case, this request is an occasion for the evaluation and adaptation of patient rights already provided for in the Government's programme to be carried out in the sense of a meaningful enlargement and for the fundamental rights reform to be undertaken and discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14065	Mrs Haidlmayr is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14086	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! When I read the judgment last year that a child who has been disabled from birth is a “damage case”, I am very scared. I am therefore terrified, and I say that quite honestly, because I too have been disabled since I was born. But I have never seen myself as a damage to myself, to my family or to society, but I am part of this society – and not a “damage case”. I would like to make this clear here, as well as that my parents have never seen me as a cause of harm. I was, of course, a child who was a lot higher has generated financial “cost” as my siblings who were not disabled. There the discussion must also start: People with disabilities – no matter how disability comes about – can never be damaged, but it must be possible for these people to be financed to compensate for their disability-related disadvantages. It is therefore obvious that the woman, and that is what it was about in the judgment, then demanded more money that she needs because she has to make appropriate therapies et cetera with her child. Unfortunately, this has happened via a case-in-law discussion, but it could also have been another, namely that women should be provided with the financial means they need to enable their child to have the same social opportunities and conditions as they do not have disabled children. That is the principle question. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this question has to be answered here. So it's not a matter of weighing: Damage or not damage, disability or disability, but it is about the disability-related disadvantage compensation from birth to death. That is why I also believe that your request, Mr Fichtenbauer, with your texting, is not suitable to deal with this issue, because it does so in the form of a change in § 22 and then it means that everything is good. – Nothing is good, Mr Fichtenbauer, but They would thus pour out a child with the bath and allow no discussion to ensure that people with disabilities and also their parents receive legal bases that allow them to obtain financial compensation for the disability-related additional burden in order to achieve real equal opportunities with non-inhibited people in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14137	Ladies and gentlemen, you can stay at the speaker's desk right now, because you'll be next. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 46/A to the Committee on Justice. [[18:53:39]] 6. Point First reading: Request by Members Theresia Haidlmayr, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law amending the Federal Disability Equality Act, the Disability Law and the Federal Disability Act (58/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14180	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. The applicant, Mrs Haidlmayr, spoke. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14207	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can now join this item seamlessly in the last speech. It is about equality of opportunity and equal opportunities for people with disabilities in all areas of daily life. Before the summer of 2005, some political groups adopted a law on the equal treatment of people with disabilities, and everyone except us Greens meant that everything was in order and that people with disabilities would be given the same rights and opportunities in all areas of daily life as they do not have disabled people. That was a great mistake of those who claimed it. And, Mrs. Haubner, you're going to give me that right now. I remember: Mr Mag. The main thing at the time was social minister, it was there, and he said that what you've achieved was one – what does he always call it? [[the speaker points towards the government bank]] – Milestone is that you are so good and so on and so on. . We told him at the time that it is a toothless law, that it does not give people with disabilities any valid rights in the final effect and that transitional periods are far too long. Furthermore, this law on equal treatment for disabled persons did not even ensure that there was a return of evidence for people with disabilities who wish to bring an action. All of this is missing in this law, and therefore, after the law on disability compensation of the former Federal Government was adopted, we immediately filed an initiative proposal in the past legislative period, so that it will be possible in Austria to obtain a law on disability equalisation, which is actually a law with content, and not a skeleton. This means creating legal foundations for people with disabilities so that they can really claim their rights. Transitional periods, as they now exist in the construction or transport sector, need to be reduced simply. In the past legislative period, we have not carried out our request anymore. That is why, at the beginning of this legislative period, we made a new proposal to improve the right to disabled persons. The content is clearly contained in this request. It is about the fact that people with disabilities also have fully indictable rights and transition periods do not last ten years. I can remember, ladies and gentlemen – I am not likely to go any differently today – that the representatives of the government parties and the former government parties have said: Everything's vain and sunny, because we have such a great law! And on top of that: It is not much possible, and in addition, we do always make bundle laws; all this will still be regulated! That is not the case, ladies and gentlemen. We need a comprehensive law, and the disability movement writes you the regular month after month, including you, Mrs. Lapp. I hope you don't also distance yourself from it, as you have already done in the valorization of the care allowance. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Only a comprehensive disability law with clear rights for people with disabilities provides the basis for real equality of opportunity at all levels for people with disabilities. Whoever still does not believe me that this law is a toothless one, may only read it in the annual report of the disabled lawyer Dr. Haupt, who has now also admitted that the law with 1. January 2006 has entered into force, a toothless law, is a complete law and absolutely does not create the legal foundations that people with disabilities need for their right to self-determined life. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will have to bring the discussion back to an actual, comprehensive law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities, And I hope that you will be here this time and ready to learn from the mistakes of the last law, and really accept and implement our own initiative proposal so that in Austria we can get a real disability equalisation law, which deserves its name as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14285	Now comes Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14307	Madam President. High house! The proposal tabled by Mr Haidlmayr with the Green Group is another element that we are moving towards the creation of equal opportunities for disabled people, the creation of equal opportunities, and the creation of equal rights for disabled people in our country. I would like to present a few points to you from the government programme, because I think that we have also made a great deal of thought in the government programme, and also have a lot of points that are binding on us in the coalition, because further developments are necessary here. And above all, we have put forward further proposals under the motto “reducing barriers to laws and minds” to further develop equality policy. I think that the discussions on the request and the discussions on the points that we are about to make and continue to present will certainly be very exciting and will also, above all, help to better express the concerns and interests of disabled people so that the concerns and rights of disabled people are more represented. [[President Dr. Spindelegger will again take over the presidency.]] Mrs. Haidlmayr! At that time, the Socialist Group of Parliament, just as the Greens, did not vote in favour of the Federal Disability Equality Act of the previous government. This is a task for us if we have government responsibility that we want to take further steps. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What are these further steps?– It is about the effectiveness of implementation, it is about a report on disabled people every two years in Parliament, so that a better representation can be carried out here and a public can also be created for disabled people. It is also important that we plan, promote and finance that there are federal programmes for the implementation of equality law, because it cannot be that we hold something in letters and that then the life content of disabled people is very far away from the letters of the law. We have very large initiatives here. It is also important for us to create services for self-help and self-help agencies, for it must also be the case that people themselves represent their rights and are heard themselves. Strengthening self-representation is also a major point in the government programme, which we want to live with, legal life. Furthermore, the continuation of the removal of discriminatory provisions in the legislation on matter is also necessary. There's still a lot to do here. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am looking forward to working together and developing more rights for disabled people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14365	The next speaker was Mr Huainigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. We'll give him a hand microphone to make it easier for him. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14386	Mr President. High house! That's my first speech with breathing machine. I don't know who's excited, me or my machine, but she works. She has already mastered her first test in the coalition negotiations, because she has harmoniously surmounted and summated. A SP negotiator meant that it was asleep, and Maria meant smoke-callathat, like a kitten. At any rate, I believe that a very good programme has been created, which my colleague Lapp has briefly summarized, and I believe that we are taking a good course. In view of the fact that the previous item on the agenda has dealt with the issue of ‘child as a harm’, I would like to mention what I heard yesterday, namely that disabled children are not being breathed because the care effort is too high. I think we need to support the caring families much more so that a 24-hour care service is also possible and feasible. Here too, there are some important points in the government programme. There are two OGH judgments. In one case a disabled child came into the world, and the OGH has ruled that the doctor must pay compensation. In a similar case, it was about a sterilized man, and here a unimpeded child came into the world unwelcome. And this time the OGH has judged, this is no harm. And that, ladies and gentlemen, can't be either. This is wrong, this is an imbalance, and this also contradicts the constitutional provision that no one should be disadvantaged because of his disability. We must certainly find a regulation here, which balances this injustice. I do not think that the proposal that is being tabled has already been approved by the Commission. Stone of the wise is, but we may find it or at least look for it. A first step towards this is a survey organised on this subject. On the law on equal treatment for persons with disabilities: It's only been in effect for a year, and I think it's a big step from my colleague Theresia Haidlmayr, that she says there's a law, because a few months ago she said there's no law at all. After all, there is now a law that can be adapted if necessary. I think you have to give this law a chance to prove that you also see where are the cracks, where does it not get. The balance sheet drawn at the turn of the disabled and also the President of the Dr. Klaus Voget Association of Disabled Persons at the turn of the year shows a very positive trend. I believe that we have gone a very good way – and will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14436	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14457	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Huainigg, I am pleased that I am allowed to speak after you, because I still have our negotiations on the disability law which entered into force a year ago in the best possible way. Memory, and I have always appreciated your wide view and your competence. I really liked that you said now, a law also needs a chance to prove yourself. This law, which comes with 1. January 2006 has entered into force, has been something completely new in Austria and has also been a model for many others, which can still follow. It is a law which, for the first time in the field of occupational recruitment, but in the field of disability as a whole, has given a clear rejection to all discrimination and, above all, has taken an important step towards reducing barriers at different levels. Especially the disability policy in the last legislative period was an essential part and an essential basis for social policy, and I hope that this foundation of social policy will continue to be developed in this government. I also hope that, in addition to the legal framework, the necessary funds we have used in the past legislative period will be available to young people, in order to give older people more opportunities to enter the first labour market. I'll go back to: Every law is to be given an opportunity, and the first experience shows us that the area of conciliation procedures is very much believed to be a low level of access to justice, that cooperation with the defendant is very well established and that also very intensive work is being carried out on the implementation of the Accessibility Plans. In my view, the Green Group's proposal now before us is a further development and, from my point of view, is also something that addresses a number of different areas, whether, for example, the claims for costs, be it the upgrading of the disabled attorney's office. I can only agree with this because we know that this work of the Public Prosecutor's Office is very positive. It has now become a service facility without which we would no longer get out. If this is the case: “Sitting and voting in the Federal Disability Advisory Council”, I would like to point out that the seat in the Federal Disability Advisory Council is already planned, but one can certainly also reinforce this with the corresponding voting right. I would be in the debate on this request, which is here – and I see it as a further development – also the report of the Disability Prosecutor's Office, which will be available at the latest 30. In June, it will be included to carry out the discussion on improvements or perhaps some change due to these experiences that have been collected. Important, I think, is that we have this law and that the law has already proved itself very well at many levels in the first year, but there must not be a standstill here, but only a further development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14508	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl; he is also a self-elected three minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14530	Mr President. High house! The reason here for amending § 12 of the Federal Disability Equality Act and § 7p of the Disability Regulation speaks of the need to reverse the burden of proof in the implementation of the Framework Equality Directive. Such a burden of proof is also called for in the Anti-Discrimination Directive, but also in the burden of proof directive. That is to say, this principle of reversing the burden of proof is the result of the anti-discrimination law of the European Union, which is entirely correct, but it is also true that this principle of the conversion of the burden of proof in the Federal Disability Equality Act and in the Employment Act has already been implemented today. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] Oh, yeah! To that end, you need to know what the burden of proof in Austrian civil process law actually looks like. The complaining party must prove its allegations to the full extent, and the defendant party is not obliged to justify its motives. According to the evidence burden scheme in the § 12 of the Federal Disability Equality Act and § 7p of the Disability Regulation, the complaining party must only make discrimination credible. It then lies with the defendant party to become active and convince the court of the truth content of their statement. That is to say, the defendant party must prove that it has not discriminated against it if it wants to obtain a rejection of the action. So we already have the burden of proof sought by you, and in fact you are not concerned with the conversion of the burden of proof, because you are in fact concerned with changing the measure of proof against your explanatory statement in the application for proof. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's not true!]] Indeed, the current rules not only facilitate the burden of proof, but also the level of proof. The chosen measure of proof, however, makes real sense especially in the presentation of motives and has proved itself in the Austrian labour law order so far. I should just like to remind you that an equivalent measure of proof is not only provided for in the anti-discrimination law, but also applies to the challenge of terminations and redundancies due to pomped motives. The evidence system in question is therefore not only compatible with the European law but is also really well integrated into Austrian labour law. So I cannot really see any need for change in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14579	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 58/A to the Constitutional Committee. [[19:15:40]] 7. Point First reading: Request by Dr Gabriela Moser, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the driving licence law (57/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14619	We reach the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. I'll set up the two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14646	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! They have all presented the Government Convention. I'm sorry. There is a great vision, the vision Zero, zero dead in the transport sector, and I would like to take you here with our request to amend the driving licence law. The aim of our proposal is to ensure that the pre-remark system is an essential element in increasing road safety, including offences as pre-requisite offences, which have the most to do with road safety, namely: Speed exceeding or inappropriate speed. We also need a second priority crime because it works in the reduction of concentration as well as alcohol consumption, namely mobile phone calls at the tax. These two predominances must significantly improve the traditional leader's license, which clearly complements the pre-marking system. Our proposal aims to ensure that we make nails with our heads very quickly in view of the Zero vision, zero traffic fatality, and that we really move the road safety towards where it should have been. I hope for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14685	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. I'll set the clock to the desired 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14707	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, your request includes, in particular, measures to speed up road safety or increase safety for road users. I think that this is an approach that we can in principle join, but it is a question of avoiding accidents on the one hand, excluding risks and ensuring safety on the other. Also from the perspective, ladies and gentlemen, we can expect an increase in road traffic by up to 40 percent by 2015 and by 30 percent in the high-level network. I think that our common effort must be to meet this increase on the one hand, on the other, to ensure security for the weaker road users. We must do everything we can to curb this increase and promote public transport. Ladies and gentlemen! Quick driving, careless driving, driving under alcohol influence, driving by mobile phone in hand are not cavalier offences and are definitely not acceptable, because they are absolute sources of danger and are particularly affecting other road users. If we look at a few more numbers: In 2006, 727 people died in road traffic. Especially dramatic for me is that children also die. One essential reason is the lack of child protection in the cars. Our effort must go in the direction of protecting these children. The fact is, however, that just a small group of drivers, a maximum of 1 per cent, are extremely vulnerable to themselves and other people. These are those who are uninstructable, the so-called high-risk rulers. The large group of disciplined drivers must be protected from this group. We need transport safety measures that are clear, understandable and comprehensible. I am convinced, Mrs Moser, that at the next meeting of the Committee on Transport, we will discuss your request very thoroughly, thus bringing our common objective, the strengthening and raising of road safety, back to a step.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14746	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler spoke next, also for 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14767	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I can only give you the right, Mrs Moser, to: Every single road fatality is really one too much. That is why we are trying to find rules here in the House. I would like to mention briefly the following: Today I have read in the ORF teletext, there is another problem with the zebra strip, because only about 40 percent of Austrian drivers stop in front of a zebra strip. – There is also a need for action here, because for pedestrians a deceitful security thinking. I think we should also include this fact, Mrs. Moser, in our actions. As my previous speaker said, last year 727 people died on Austrian roads. We really must do everything we can to further reduce this number. While it is positive that this figure has been the absolute lowest number of road deaths since the beginning of the records 56 years ago, every fate is tragic; I give you the right to do so. Each of us, also as a road user and road user and especially as a two-time mother, is particularly much to make the streets safer for our children. The proposals must be well thought out, well-founded and supported, as well as revised in cooperation with numerous experts. I would like to point out that since the introduction of the driver's licence system, the driver's licence preference system has been in place since the introduction of the 1. ==References====External links== It complements the existing criminal and driving license law with another level of 13 crimes. For example, if a pedestrian is at risk from the protection route, if a corresponding safety distance et cetera is not observed, a pre-remark in the driver's licence register is required, repeat offenders must take training, and in three cases, as is known, the driver's licence must be issued within two years. Whether it is right to expand the catalogue of leading offences may clarify the debate in the Committee; it must be questioned and discussed. The priority system is certainly a good and important step in the right direction, it is important to build on it. I would suggest to install a new working group at the Ministry of Transport, consisting of representatives of the car clubs, numerous experts from various areas, that we discuss this with a broad public and, of course, let new studies take place. So it's about moving something together. I would like to say that I trust in our executive that she is well aware of this, and I would like to thank you at this point for always and always being ready for us. I hope that the accident statistics will continue to be undermined in 2007. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14816	The next speaker is Mr Mayerhofer. 2 minutes speaking time, and this is also the remaining speaking time of your group. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14837	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Dear ladies and gentlemen! - There's no one on the government bank. – Two minutes are few, but it is soon said: I have to tell you once, ladies and gentlemen, that is what we have to say. Unfortunately, you have a very bad contact with police. If you had asked a very simple street politician, he would have told you that, for example, in the problem of cell phone calls at the wheel of the car drivers, there is a legal claim to the imposition of an organ mandate. When imposing an organ mandate is also implied and included – please, listen! – the anonymity. In other words, you will then enter an unknown driver into a pre-eminence vision – I wish you a lot of luck in the administrative process! I'll tell you to drive fast: The driver is one of the most - I say so now - burdened in every form, including in the punishments. Let me quote the following, so that you may remember: According to § 7(3) of the driving licence law, a person is considered unreliable, which exceeds the speed in the local area by more than 40 km/h, outside the area by more than 50 km/h. It is provided for two weeks of a driver's license withdrawal, at most six weeks. – What else do you want? [[Abg. Dr. Moser: You don't understand anything at all!]] They want to create a people of social cases. These are loud workers, or mothers, who – how to say? – the family needs to deal with the vehicle. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Come to the Transport Committee!]] I'm going to explain this to you very carefully. The fact is that you too could have contributed to greater road safety; I only remember the years 2000 to 2005, every Thursday in the 1. District. We will certainly be against additional loads for the drivers, and I don't know alone, I can tell you that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14891	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner; also two minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14912	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not so easy to come to the heart of the request together with the Greens, because there are still uncertainties, which means that the paragraphs – I see, it is being discussed again – really mean. Perhaps you can explain this to the Committee so that we can really discuss the matter. Mrs. Moser, in your application you always write “preferential system (point driver’s license).” – The premise system, which has been introduced here, should not be exactly the point driver's license, just as it has been introduced in other countries, where you have to get a point deduction for every possible offence and then give up on the driver's license for real minors. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: But you have always said that this is the Austrian variant!]] There is, of course, the consequence of the immediate acceptance of the driver's licence, Mrs. Colleague, for really dangerous offences, such as high-speed driving – and that is why speeding is not mentioned in the pre-marking system. But if you’re at Linz, for example, where your National Council has ordered 100 against every reason – on a three-track highway! – 131 km/h driving, which is always possible there and is not dangerous to traffic, should points already be awarded? If this is a pendulum who makes it three times in a row, he can issue his driver's license. – Mrs Colleague, that is nonsense, if I may say so, that has nothing to do with road safety. We are very much in favour of promoting road safety. The last government with Transport Minister Gorbach and State Secretary Kukacka did the same. There have never been as few traffic deaths as last year. This is the result of a reasonable transport policy – but not such alibi treatments that clearly signal that it is not about the matter, but it is about symbolically making applications against the drivers here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14952	The next speaker is Mr Gahr, who is also 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e14973	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that this issue must not be a fight issue, but in principle all the suggestions and proposals and discussions that increase road safety are welcome. We all need to work together to reduce the number of victims and increase road safety. It is about safety for active and passive road users, but it is also about our taking responsibility as political representatives. And I would also like to stress that it is also a matter of ensuring that we cannot completely abandon ourselves from our own responsibilities, but that we also call for our own responsibilities. In principle, I believe, the priority system has contributed to the positive development of transport safety in Austria. The number of victims has fallen. At present, 13 offences are mentioned in this premise system, and as active road users, a better sense of road safety has been developed somewhere. I personally observe that the drivers are much more attentive when climbing – even if this is not implemented everywhere. This proposal by the Greens is a request that we shall discuss in the Committee. It's about there are two offences you should talk about openly. Mr Binder has referred to it; I think that phone calls with the phone on the wheel have somehow become something like a cavalier crime, but it does contribute to the risk of road safety, because many of these telephone calls also practice at the tax. We should take sensible measures in this regard: firstly, to increase the level of information and secondly, to say quite openly, to introduce control possibilities of the executive to a practical level. The topic of “Quicking” – I would like to give Mr Scheibner’s right to: There is currently a system where you can implement everything from fines to the withdrawal of a driver's license. This model works, and we first need to present a better model. In order to put the old model out of power. – So so fast, I think, can't be implemented. This proposal is not underestimated by our group. The problem is not underestimated either, we take the problem seriously and we are pleased that we are going to the Committee with different positions and discussing it. In the end, a useful model should remain that will protect all of us – but, of course, all active and passive road users – and will safely accompany us through road transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15022	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the proposal 57/A to the Transport Committee. [[19:32:05]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Dr Gabriela Moser, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the public passenger and regional transport law (ÖPNRV-G) and increasing the Federal Order Fund to EUR 80 million (59/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15061	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. I'll give it to him. 3 minutes' time limit, Mrs Colleague. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15088	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already discussed climate action in the morning, and it has become clear to all of us that it is a matter of reducing motorised traffic – not only in terms of climate protection, but above all in terms of saving energy. We are close to the “Peak Oil”, that is, in the future the energy price will rise massively, the fuel price will rise massively. Therefore, we have to provide alternatives to people, especially those who have so far depended on the car, and these alternatives are simply public transport. As we know, in the past there has been a tough looping around improved financing and better organisational design of the public transport offer. The last government has introduced a novel, but this amendment to the public law has failed to ensure that the Minister of Finance has not provided any additional funds. In the novelle there was still about 30 million, the Minister of Finance has said: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – Now we are back where we have been in 1999, because the original public transport law has already foreseen in 1999 that at least 50 million additional funds will be made available to the countries and municipalities so that they can finance innovative transport services – bus services, rail services. However, since 1999, it has not been 50 million, but in 2006 de facto only 7 million. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: 11!]] – Mr Commissioner, you are at the same time speaking. Our proposal aims to have at least 80 million at our disposal in the future, so that it can be converted from being a signpost to being a car, to high energy prices, to climate-efficient fuel consumption at last on environmentally-friendly, sustainable, attractive public transport; public transport, which also creates jobs, public transport that stands for greater transport safety, public transport, which offers more quality, more quality in the daily supply of commuters, more quality also for long-distance trains, and which, in total, means the departure of a purely self-centered transport policy, as it unfortunately has repeatedly operated Mr. Transport Minister Gorbach in the past. I would ask you to give a clear signal to you, especially from the Social Democracy, towards better financial dispensation of public transport. I know that this will be very, very intense negotiations with the Minister for Finance, who is now coming from the EIA, and I trust in you, Mr Kukacka, that you, who have studied the problem very intensively, have also worked intensively in negotiations with the countries – that you are putting a very important word in your party colleagues, your country colleague, Mr Molterer, that, at last, public transport is being reformed not only organisationally – no question, the Court of Auditors report clearly shows this – but also financially put on new feet. – Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15125	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15149	Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I say something to matter myself, allow me to thank the ÖBB staff for the special achievements they have done in the last 24 hours due to storm damage on the South Railway. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] We have seen clearly how important it is for us to have reliable employees at the ÖBB, who act effectively as quickly as possible in the event of disasters. I thank you, and I can of course pass on the applause to where it belongs. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Moser's request, as he is formulated – and I have said this to Mr Moser in the personal discussion before – includes figures that are no longer entirely correct, which are no longer up-to-date and are not voting. We have to bring these figures up to date first, and if that is done, then of course we can also find ourselves in the Transport Committee about this new situation and consider the financial discussions. It is indeed true that a number of preliminary work has already been done by the last government – you simply have to find out. In particular, Mr Kukacka, then Secretary of State, tried to make some progress in this area. We also need to know that there are not only Austrian solutions, but there are also proposals at European level that we need to integrate into the proposals we make. This has also been discussed at European level in the framework of this ‘PSO’ Regulation. I assume, first and foremost, that the problem was, of course, that there was a need to transfer essential elements of local transport to countries, and then negotiations with the countries, which were the subject of financial coverage, were of course not quite as simple as they imagined. But it is very crucial – and I agree with what Mr Moser said – that in the future, as we organize it in such a way that as many people as possible make use of the public transport sector will be transformed into public transport. get away from individual traffic, so that not every morning in the morning you don't have to hear the traffic jams or reports about where you're going more or less in the traffic jam where you're suffocating in the traffic jam. Of course, quality is important when it comes to public transport, the punctuality is important, time schedules are important to introduce to ensure that you are in the right place at the right time, even if you are using public transport. Today, the Green Group has also debated or brought in to create a mobility card for Austria. – Even this is not a new idea, this idea is already at work at the ÖBB, it is a good idea – no matter who is the author of this idea. You should continue to work on these things so that you can travel across Austria with a ticket on all public transport. Then there would be many obstacles to railway stations, vending machines and, and, falling away, and people would certainly use these maps more. I invite all political groups to discuss this issue very value-free and open in the Transport Committee, and I hope that we will now come to a good new solution with the federal states in the new coalition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15204	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kukacka; also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15225	Mr President. High house! Yes, Mrs Moser is right: Public transport is of great importance both in terms of climate change and, of course, in terms of people's mobility. It ensures functionality and quality of life, especially in the agglomeration area, but of course it is also an important part of general care and thus also regional equality in rural areas. That is why we are also committed to public transport and to its reform and improvement. The last German government has already cost public transport a lot of money. The federal government spends €500 million a year alone on public transport tariff support. Each donor, regardless of whether he is a weekly, monthly or annual pendulum, pays a maximum of one third of his own costs. Two thirds are taken from the federal government on the basis of collective agreements. But of course we need to develop this public transport, because there are also problems: The public sector, the federal government and countries have spent more and more money on public transport in recent years, but the number of public transport users has unfortunately fallen in many regions of Austria. In other words, we need to improve the transport efficiency of public transport. The Court of Auditors, Mr Eder, also mentioned these problems, the problems of competence and the lack of efficiency in public transport. We have already tried to discuss reforms with the countries, have developed concepts, implemented them in part, but not yet fully, because there are many complex problems here and it is difficult to find useful solutions together with the countries, the municipalities, the municipal government, the Austrian federal railways and bus operators. I would also like to say one thing: There has hardly been a federal government which, in its government programme, has already addressed certain public transport objectives as specific as is now the case in the government programme. We have recognised the need for further development of public transport, for new transport trains to be used, for the development of tactile transport, for an Austrian ticket to be implemented for all public transport. That is why it is too short, Mrs Moser, if you simply demand €80 million more for public transport, because a mere increase in resources does not yet involve the efficiency of the provision of services, and this does not solve the problem of competence. And above all: They are also facing major problems for the countries and the municipalities, because the request you have put forward calls for co-financing of the same amounts by countries and municipalities, and for that the countries, as we know from the negotiations, are not at all in a position to do so. So: Yes to further reform, to improve, to attract local transport – but simply to increase resources and otherwise to leave the states as they are, that is not targeting. We want a better one, we want more attractive transport, and we will also work on it in the next legislative period.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15270	The next speaker is Mr Bucher, who has been elected two minutes' speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15292	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We are of course, of course, a corresponding resource for public transport, have never made a hag of it, have also taken a clear position with our transport and infrastructure ministers during the last legislative period, that it is not a matter of playing against each other the commuters who are on the road, and the commuting agents who are on the road in public transport, but it is about the common concern of one another. This also implies, of course, that the Federal Government, together with the countries, will ensure that the financial basis is established, in order to ensure that, in particular, the counterparts in the rural area find appropriate transport links so that they can get to their workplace as cost-effectively as possible. So far, the federal government has made €1.1 billion available for this and has provided the countries with approximately €470 million. We have very great sympathy for the proposal, but we are in favour of thinking about how we are optimising it within the framework of a large, general approach. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15325	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 59/A to the Committee on Transport. The agenda is exhausted. [[19:46:21]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-01-30-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00011_d7e15360	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 96/A to 116/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 286/J to 304/J have also been raised. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 7.47 p.m., following this meeting. This meeting is closed.
