ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11344	The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 37. Meeting of 7. ==References====External links== Meeting of 8. In November 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the MEPs are reported Mag. Knoll, Mag. Worm, Murauer, Dr. Moser, Dr. Pilz and Mag. Hauser. I announce that Mr. Ing. Westenthaler, within the meaning of Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure, has raised written objections to the agenda of today's sitting in writing. The objections concern the inclusion of the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template: Federal Constitutional Law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act and adopts a First Federal Constitutional Law (370 d.b.), as well as the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Asylum Court Constitutional Law (371 d.a.) as points 1 and 2 in today's agenda. The debate will take place in accordance with Article 50 of the Rules of Procedure following the current hour. [[09:06:23]] Current hour President Dr. Michael Spindelegger: We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “For Austria to remain sovereign and neutral – no conclusion of the EU reform treaty” I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 1 p.m. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. I give him the floor and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please. [[9:06:47]] Member Heinz-Christian Strache(FPÖ): Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! It was Heinrich Heine who once said, when it's itching the emperor, the peoples have to scratch. Today, one could replace the word “Kaiser” with the term “EU”, namely the European Union, only that it is much worse today than at the time of the emperor. That could be the point. Then: If the EU is itching, its peoples will no longer be scratched, because they have to scratch themselves in such a way that they are literally scratched off. And with what we're doing today – also in the last- weeks and months – we must acknowledge developments, we must note that today's emperor is the European Union, if, according to the will of red and black, but also of green and orange in this House, it is precisely these four parties that have voted against a referendum in Austria up to that date and who also oppose the Austrians' right to make this decision, namely, on their future, on their sovereignty, on their own country, on neutrality, on a decision that only we Austrians can make. [[The representatives of the FPÖ put red-and-white-red panels on their benches with the title “WIR are AUSTRIA”.]] I am therefore particularly pleased that the largest daily newspaper in Austria, namely the “Kronen Zeitung”, has rightly asked the question in an article series: “Bürger-Ohnmacht versus Brusselser Dictat?” because that is exactly what it is about. If this reform treaty of the European Union, which is no more and no less than a European federal constitution aimed at a state of the European Union, were to be ratified, and without a referendum, because you want to deny the right of constitution to the people, then it is a development where one has to say that democracy would have been in Austria, and that must not be the case. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would be the end of the Republic of Austria, and we do not want to accept that. We do not want to accept that our state has served our Republic of Austria. No, no, no, This state of Austria, our Republic of Austria, is to continue to ensure its sovereignty, to ensure its neutrality, to ensure the ownership in a European state association, but not to go here and throw all that overboard. I already have to hold on to that, Mr. Federal Chancellor, who gave you on 13 November. As you have announced, December in Lisbon, this reform treaty will be signed in the framework of the European Intergovernmental Conference – you have established it everywhere –: We believe that this signature should not in fact be given, that you, as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, should not sign this Constitutional Treaty at all, because no ordinary citizen would sign such a contract, where all rights are abandoned and all rights are transferred anywhere without having a choice in the future. That is precisely why you too, Mr Bundeskanzler, are particularly critical of this question. You have announced that you will have this reform and constitutional treaty on 13 March. Subscribing on December. That's bad for Austria. I hope that this will not be a black thirteenth for Austria in the future. However, the ratification process has not yet been completed. Fortunately, we are living in a democracy where you, as the Federal Chancellor, did not create all the facts with a signature, but would only begin the ratification process. And I expect you, Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, but also Mr Molterer, from the Foreign Minister Plassnik, but also from the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Prammer, to finally stand up here and promise the Austrian people that the constitutional right of referendum will be guaranteed by you on this issue. That's what I expect from you today! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But the two former popular parties in Austria, namely the Austrian People's Party and the Social Democratic Party of Austria, have apparently conspired against the Austrian population. Otherwise, you can't interpret this if in recent months and years you are permanently in public Discussions point to the fact that one does not want the people to decide at all that the people do not have the confidence to make this decision, although in our Austrian federal constitution the right is based on the people and that, if the Austrian constitution is changed as a whole, the sovereign, namely the Austrian federal people, has to vote on it. You refuse! They confuse national rule here with national rule. They do not want the rule of the Austrian federal people, as in the Constitution quoted as a right, but they obviously want a national rule. They want to dominate the Austrian federal people, issue compulsory orders. That is why I understand that more and more Austrians are no longer able to take your political path, which is beyond our constitution. You have to make that clear in this clarity! Then: If this Treaty were to enter into force, the European Commissioners would only have the say in our country. And it is an irony of history that, after 70 years in Russia, the political commissioners have been beaten to the devil, but at the same time, in the European Union, the Commissioners are becoming the actual government, ultimately becoming the real force in this European Union, without having been directly elected. The “Kronen Zeitung” has put it to the fore. Now the access to our water is threatening. - That's the case! They are relinquishing all political sovereignty. You are living today to sell out our home country and in the future you seem to want to let Brussels decide on these crucial questions, and ultimately also what happens to our water. They want to make it possible in the environmental field – and this is what the “Kronen Zeitung” writes very well in her reports, which she has made, under the title “The Environment-Dictat and its consequences” – for a genetic engineering regulation from Brussels to Austria, for all of this would be possible if this reform and constitutional treaty of the European Union entered into force. EURATOM Treaty: They all agreed with the European Union Constitution with a Hurra scream in this House two years ago in the annex that there is a doubling of the contributions. The “Kronen Zeitung” has another article, titled: The social clause and its vices, written. Again, it's on the table. Even today, through regulations by the European Union, our funds are already empty, we are no longer eligible for payment because today every non-Austrian claim to all benefits and, of course, this social system is no longer eligible for funding, up to our health system. And under another title, which reads: The “Kronen Zeitung” of the “Kronen Zeitung” is also at the point where we have had to experience in recent months: Afghanistan, and now, as a result, the Chad mission that you have decided, where I say: This is a battle effort, where you have not even waited for the reform treaty of the European Union to take place in Bälde, where Austrian soldiers are not sent as blue helmets, where partyism is on the table and the French have already attacked rebel groups and have lived party to the President of the State there. This is no longer a peace project, which is heading towards the European Union's war project. It is even a point in the EU reform treaty passage that we want to make it possible to combat terrorism against third countries, which means no more and no less than an attack war can be possible. All of this does not correspond to our intentions! We want to remain neutral, Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP. Sale You're not our country! Sale You don't have the rights of our Austrian population with skin and hair! Send Don't get our federal eagle to rush to Brussels, where it will eventually be thrown into a pot of big corporations and lobbyists! We don't want our Bundesadler to be cooked down and down to the soup chicken! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not our goal! We don't want to sell our say, our sovereignty. And I say no and three times no to this development, because we liberals stand to our neutrality, we stand for our sovereignty, and we also want to keep this freedom, which the Republic of Austria had to struggle hard, and not be led into an insecurity. Austria alone has to determine which foods are allowed in our home country and which are not. We want to ensure a GMO-free home for Austria. I come to the end of my remarks and I have to say: We will insist that this referendum, our right, will also be implemented. Over a hundred thousand Austrians have already signed our petition on this question. Finally, take this democratic constitutional right seriously, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e11539	Mr. Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer spoke on a preliminary opinion. His speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please. [[9:17:22]] Federal Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer Mr. President! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Sometimes you have to get a little scared and scared when you hear what apocalypse should be standing here in front of Austria. [[Abg. You're right!]] It reminds me of a frozen posthornton. [[Abg. Strache: (keeping up a newspaper article) From the “Kronen Zeitung”!]] These are essentially the same arguments put forward by your party before Austria's accession to the European Union. [[Abg. That's right. It's all right!]] Again, it was said that this was Austria's downfall, that was the end of the Republic. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what really happened? – One of the largest economic increases in the history of Austria, which has led to Austria being the fourth-richest country in the European Union today. [[Abg. Strache: The social prosperity – we see it today!]] We should be proud of this together and not call it a ruin to our country, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: Under a million Austrians below the poverty line!]] Today, we are at the centre of the new enlarged Europe, and this new enlarged Europe has proved successful for Austria. If only recently the forecasts for the next year's economy have been published in Europe and unfortunately in the euro zone are announced that growth will go down, I have to say: The only country where the prognosis has been revised up is Austria! [[Abg. Strache: That's why we have over a million Austrians below the poverty line!]] Everyone can wonder why this is the case. And I can tell you: Not only because the Austrians are diligent, because we have good enterprises, but because our economy most often benefits from having this enlarged Europe. Not only do these fruits meet a few but they express themselves in good salary accounts, they express themselves in declining unemployment. Austria is one of the main beneficiaries of the enlarged Europe. What is happening is a good future for Austria and not the fall of the Republic. Take note of this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, every project of the European Union can be considered critically. It is not necessary to believe from the outset that everything proposed by the European Commission is correct. A critical discussion is not only permitted, but also necessary. And sometimes it is necessary to obtain opposition. But what I do not consider to be right is that whenever there is criticism of individual projects, the whole of the European Union and the European integration work is called into question. That makes absolutely no sense! That would be exactly as if you, if anything did not fit into your mind, what is being discussed in the Austrian Parliament, would question Austria at every opportunity. In my opinion, that makes no sense, does not take us any further step forward, and it is obvious that only the population should be unsure! – We will not follow this path, and therefore the constitutional procedure will also be observed. I do not agree with this Treaty from Jux and Tollery, but because it contains the necessary decisions of those bodies which are authorized by the Constitution in Austria, namely: the ongoing information of Parliament with its motions for resolutions, a unanimous decision by the Austrian Federal Government that we sign this Treaty. And if this Treaty is signed, Parliament has enough time to ratify this Treaty. [[Abg. Strache: Volksammung, Herr Bundeskanzler!]] Mr Strache, do not delay your responsibility as a Member of Parliament. Take the first essential step: [[Abg. Strache: Give the Austrian their right!]] Read the contract! [[Abg. Strache: I don't think you've read it to this day!]] Then take the second essential step: Discuss this agreement with people who are interested in this topic! Third step: Then consider what is good for Austria and what is bad! And then you come to the Austrian Parliament and discuss with all Members what the better way is! – That means: President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, in certain matters, we should have a precise line of thought. I do not think it is good to say this to you personally if you put the EU Commission – which is made up of Commissioners nominated by democratically elected governments, and this Commission must stand up to a majority vote in the European Parliament – at the same level as the political commissioners at the time of the CPSU, who were responsible for maintaining the communist regime in large parts of Europe. – Ladies and gentlemen, such comparisons have no place in the Austrian Parliament and are rejected by us! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] It's all to say: I do not think your argument is very consistent either, because what is now a reform treaty is a changed form of the Constitutional Treaty already ratified by Parliament. [[Abg. Strache: But don't deceive the citizens, Federal Chancellor! This is a copy of the Constitutional Treaty!]] And I remember exactly that when we discussed this Constitutional Treaty here in the National Council, a question was examined, namely: Is this Constitutional Treaty a fundamental change in the Austrian Constitution? If so, of course, he would have to be subjected to a referendum. The question that was disputed with the constitutional lawyers was: Is the Constitutional Treaty an absolute primacy of European law vis-à-vis national law? – And even in this formulation, the constitutional lawyers believed that this is an expression of shared sovereignty, and we have already voted on this principle at the time of Austria’s accession to the European Union. [[Abg. Rosary: Only people didn't know that at the time! That's what you've done to keep quiet that...!]] Only: What's going on now? – This controversial point is no longer contained in the new reform Treaty in contrast to the Constitutional Treaty. And I note that while Members of the Freedom Party have ratified a Constitutional Treaty very well, they are not ready to ratify a suspensive reform treaty. [[Abg. BZÖ!]] [[Abg. BZÖ!]] And that is inconsistent, contradictory and shows that you are not about Austria, but about small party-tactic interests, and that is not good for our country! [[Abg. Strache: These were the representatives of the BZÖ, Federal Chancellor! Stay with the truth! Our only colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, has voted against.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: Stay with the truth! At that time we had only one Member, today we have 21!]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, your colleague Bösch was even a member of the European Convention. [[Abg. Strache: He was at BZÖ at the time and is only in the FPÖ! Turned away from the BZÖ!]] – No one knows about you anymore: one FPÖ, once BZÖ, again FPÖ. So obviously change Their representatives, together with their identities, have their position on the Constitutional Treaty. Let's get to it: Your Members have already taken every position on this subject except one. And on such a basis there is really no policy to build! [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] On the contrary, we believe that this reform treaty is not a self-evident, but rather will make Europe more operational in order to meet the crucial challenges together. This reform treaty does not constitute a change in our previous security policy principles as regards the question of neutrality and solidarity. [[Abg. That's wrong, Federal Chancellor!]] And this reform treaty – which is why you are fighting it – will lead to a better functioning of the European Union and will therefore reduce the gap between the EU and its citizens. That's exactly why we say: Yes, we benefit and stand for a functioning Europe! [[Abg. You don't give the population pure wine! That's wrong what you're saying!]] Austria has benefited from the European Union and lies in the heart of this continent. And we do not want to endanger this peace project, because it is a solid basis for the further development of our country. If you were honest, you would have to say to this treaty, yes to Austria and indeed to Europe! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes to a referendum!]] [[9:26]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann. [[9:26:31]] Member Dr Josef Cap (SPÖ): Mr President. Federal Chancellor! I think you're just exaggerating. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The Federal Chancellor, that's right!]] They exaggerate – with all due respect to the newspaper “Kronen Zeitung”, which rightly brings many critical articles, in all respects to those who call for a referendum or who have a lot of criticism of the European Union. You should deal with these things very seriously, you should not just go over it, I say quite openly. I too have a great deal of criticism of the policy that comes from the EU Commission, which comes from Brussels, but I know very well how to weigh it and estimate the alternatives. And what you don't say is: What is actually the alternative to membership of the European Union, and what is the alternative to the EU? [[Abg. Strache: Swiss model!]] We are all drawn, including the younger generation, of what has taken place on the European continent in two world wars, and we want peace here. We do not want to see such a dispute at the level of the national dispute, religious conflicts and so on. And I believe that the European Union as a model has done a lot in this regard. But there was criticism. The lost referendums in France and Holland were the expression of this criticism, where they said: We don't feel protected! We are not satisfied with the safeguarding of our jobs and social systems! [[Abg. Strache: And that's why you don't make a referendum, Mr. Klubobmann?- Oh, my God!]] There is too little economic growth to secure this! – What is the European Union doing? I am opposed to speaking here today of some myth-oriented EU. – The EU is essentially the sum of the decisions of the national governments and national parliaments, which involve the work of the Commission, the decisions of the Council and the European Parliament. That's the truth! And that is why at the time we have dealt very often and critically with the government of the Federal Chancellor Schüssel – with the BZÖ and at the beginning with the FPÖ – because we have said that the government is actually partly involved in or determines a policy in the European Union, which we do not want to make too little for growth at the expense of employment or jobs, and is setting too few initiatives. [[Abg. Scheibner: And how is it now?]] That's it. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you sacrifice our social and health state, our system!]] If you're building a myth here today, I have to tell you: That's exaggeration, and that's not really credible! Now I say something to you – even so one reason why I say, with all the criticism; I will, when it comes to the question of Turkey's accession, take the view that we are conducting a popular survey on it or are against it from the house, because I believe that Turkey is an Asian country and that is a European model, and I do not want a Euro-Asian model, I say it quite openly ; no –: [[Abg. Strache: That's why you're already preventing a referendum!]] I am concerned that we see the European Union as something where we are working together against globalisation pressure. I do not want the Chinese wages here in Europe. I do not want the Russian wages and the Russian ‘non-security-sys-tem’ in Europe. I do not want us here to make a foreign policy like the Americans: beyond UN decisions and international law. [[Abg. Blow: Then say no to the Constitutional Treaty!]] No, no, no, I want the European Union, in the sense of traditions, the social tradition of this continent, political traditions, democratic traditions, to act together to ensure a level in the labour market, a level of wages, a level of social systems – that we do not allow ourselves to be dictated by America, Russia, China, Japan or anywhere. [[Abg. Strache: Then say no to the Constitutional Treaty if you want to!]] We are here in Europe – and that is the decisive thing! If you say, We are Austria!, I say Yes, we are Austria, but then we are a strong Austria when we are in a strong Europe! [[Abg. Strache: Switzerland is also in Europe!]] [[Abg. Strache: Switzerland is Europe too!]] I would ask the forthcoming speakers of the FPÖ to address this question. It makes no sense simply to spread apocalyptic images here and not to say what is then. That's too little! And that's my criticism I've got to make. I would therefore like to say once again: It is true that it is a controversy here, so it is true that it is not all that comes from Brussels or from the Council Decisions to say yes and Amen, so it is true that a large Austrian daily is critical of this issue, but it is also right to establish in principle what is better for Austria. – For Austria, it is better to work together in this European framework, because we are stronger because we can better meet the needs of the Austrians for safety, for employment, for pension security, for the social system, for a fair health system. This is once the decisive – and because there should be peace here! This cannot often be said enough to introduce more plebiscite elements, more popular surveys, more referendums at all levels. That's okay, but I'll tell you right now: [[Abg. That's up to you!]] This reform treaty, which is the same as many Treaties before, where no one has called for a vote to be held on it, because it was not necessary, is intended by Parliament to fulfil its responsibilities and to carry out the relevant decisions – in the interests of Austria! [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12072	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[9:31:57]] Member Dr Wolfgang Schüssel(ÖVP): High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't think it's necessary to argue about facts, you just have to remember them. The facts are convincing: Since joining the EU, the Austrian economy has grown faster than German. Since the introduction of the euro, the Austrian economy has grown faster and better than that of the entire euro area. Since we are in the European Union, we have twice as high export growth as Switzerland. We will probably be worth – a huge number this year! – almost 115 billion € export [[Abg. Strache: What about the one million Austrians living below the poverty line?]] And we are at the top of the European Union, together with the Irish, Luxembourg and the Dutch, in terms of employment, employment, low unemployment. This should be put out of the question, and it is a pleasure, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That does not mean that everything is perfect in the European Union, that is not at all a question, but the point is: Do we cooperate in this project, and does this Treaty – it is no longer a Constitutional Treaty – help us to ensure that the European Union becomes more democratic, more effective and that the objectives that are important to us are strengthened? – And I say quite clearly: Yes, this treaty helps us with it! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Then: For the first time, this Treaty lays down the objectives of climate protection. For the first time, the European Union is committed to a common energy policy. – To be honest: Should Austria stand against Russia alone, against Arabia, against Iran, we are not together stronger than lonely? I think that is a simple question that everyone can answer with Yes. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The EU is becoming more democratic because the European Parliament is now getting full co-decision, because subsidiarity is better anchored, because, I say, the Charter of Fundamental Rights is also binding, so that every citizen can claim his rights to the European institutions up to the European Court of Justice. That's a huge story. It's a shame that the British don't use this right for themselves. [[Abg. Street: Tag: Beneš-Dekrete!]] But I do not want to abstain from this right to Austrian citizens, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Quite open: Whether this contract is perfect or not, it is a big step forward. By the way, we Austrians are getting a seat more in the European Parliament – not quite bad! That's not the world, I know, but one step forward anyway, so that we can make a better statement. Now, on some of the points you mentioned and which you have to take very seriously: Water, neutrality, general care. Let's consider: Is the current, the old regulation better than the new one? Especially when it comes to general care, the first time the role of the communities is expressly anchored in the water – for the first time not only the nations or the regions but also the communities are anchored! For the first time, the economic provisions of general interest, either provided by the municipalities themselves, are financed or commissioned by the Treaty! So stop the rumor that the water is sold out, we'll be taken away! That's just not right! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] But it is right, honourable Member: If we want it, we can even do a business with this white gold! - It's not bad. Beer becomes exportable only if Austrian water is inside or mineral water. Let's be glad that we have something to offer here, too. But that's our decision, and no one takes us away! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: This political sovereignty replaces you with the Constitutional Treaty!]] With regard to neutrality, honourable Member, it is true that we have always interpreted it and have never allowed it to be interpreted from the outside. Originally, we had even undertaken to make the neutrality according to the Swiss model – we have quickly cancelled it because we joined the UN for several decades before Switzerland. We decide and nobody else! We will not let that happen, even through this new treaty. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, the question: People's vote: yes or no? I started an initiative with Italian Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini 11 years ago to allow a European referendum at all. I think this is the only right way, and it will come. For this we should fight together, as well as the idea of a popular initiative at the time is now included in this Treaty. [[Abg. Street: Here in Austria!]] [[Abg. Street: Here in Austria, we have to vote!]] – But it makes no sense to vote in each country, there we get a little bit of a teaspoon, or even like in Carinthia now in a region to vote in a federal country, since we have 344 votes in all of Europe. [[Abg. Strache: No flickering tapestries, in Austria! In our Republic!]] There is a very interesting survey that says that 75 percent of Austrians are for a referendum, but then when it takes place in all European countries. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Street: In Austria!]] [[Abg. Street: In Austria!]] That is what we stand for, ladies and gentlemen, and for nothing else.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12283	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Van der Bellen. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[9:37:23]] Deputies Dr. Alexander Van der Bellen(Green): Mr President. Mr. Strache, a nice metaphor: Our beloved Bundesadler becomes a soup chicken through the reform treaty. – I believe that our Bundesadler is far too tough to become a soup chicken through such a reform treaty at EU level. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Our eagle is already preserved – with or without a reform contract – and you can take poison on it, as it were. What you mean is something completely different. I mean, not without reason we don't only have the Bundesadler hanging here, we also have two flags here, the Austrian and symbolic the European, even if they de facto not... – Oh, that's what you're criticising again? [[Abg. Strache: But it belongs to it, it is not even in the reform treaty! That's not an official flag!]] [[Abg. No, that's not an official flag! What's the flag doing?]] You would have liked to have them in the reform treaty? If the flag had been in the reform treaty, would you have agreed?- Oh, my God! That's really good. [[Congratulations on Greens, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You want something completely different, you don't want the European flag here, you want to de facto leave the EU, that's what you want. [[Abg. Strache: The red-white-red!]] Every time you say: Model Switzerland! What's that supposed to be? – Switzerland, which has had stagnating economic data for at least 10, 15 years, at a high level – but why? [[Abg. That's a great thing!]] Because Switzerland has been at war since 1800 or 1500, which I know no longer – no idea how far that goes back in Switzerland. That's no wonder. Switzerland with its multinational corporations is completely different from Austria, but Switzerland, in particular, has to negotiate every single point with the European Union without automatic participation! [[Abg. Strache: We want to negotiate laboriously, not slip around on our knees in Brussels!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Necessary negotiation is undesirable!]] That is the advantage of a member to be able to do that. Yes, in individual cases, for example on transport issues, Switzerland is getting easier, that is true, but in total I would never want to exchange with the situation of Switzerland as Austria and a member of the European Union. It is good and it is right that Austria is a member of the European Union. And I'll stick with it. If the Union did not exist, it would have to be invented – as a counterweight to the globalisation of the economy, which is irreversible. [[Abg. That's not a counterweight! That's the brain of globalization!]] We need such a globalized policy at the political level, in the small European framework. Let me tell you again: Neither Austria nor Germany nor any other European nation state would today be able to offer companies such as Microsoft, which are indeed giants on the world scale, so to speak, Paroli. The EU can do that, the European Commission can, and has done so successfully. You would like to give up this by disbanding the European Union, because that is what you really want. [[Abg. Strache: Mr Van der Bellen, economic cooperation does not mean that one must give up one's state sovereignty!]] Her speech did not contain a word about the perhaps insufficient but increasing democratisation of the European Union. [[Abg. Street: Where do you see more democracy? It is a reduction in democracy! Where's the participation? Where?]] - What do you compare with, please? [[Abg. Strache: Where is the Citizen's talk? Where?]] The division of violence within the European Union has clearly been improved. The European Parliament's participation rights have been clearly increased, the Union's ability to act has been clearly increased – yes, through stronger majority procedures instead of the unanimity procedure. Yes, Austria too will be overrun from time to time, that is true. But also Malta, Cyprus and the Baltic States, let alone Luxembourg, which is much, much smaller than Austria, will not have as many veto rights as in the past. I think that's right, Mr. Strache. However, this requires a certain degree of understanding of the need to solve problems at European level. But you don't have that! [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] One word for the referendum: If there is a referendum in Austria on an Austrian Constitution, we say on a matter of medium importance, not vital, but also not irrelevant, what is then? Then there is a referendum throughout Austria. But there is no veto right for Laa on the Thaya within this total Austrian referendum, there is no veto right for Guntramsdorf, there is not even a veto right for Innsbruck City, and Innsbruck City has about the same share of the Austrian population as Austria in the pan-European population. [[Abg. Strache: It is about the total change of the Austrian Constitution!]] So if people vote, then yes, of course, but at European level, of all! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12485	Mrs Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[9:42:49]] Mr Barbara Rosenkranz (FPÖ): Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! High house! The lines are quite clear. All of you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, of the SPÖ, of the Greens, of course also from the BZÖ – you have agreed – support the paper that is available. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: No, that's wrong!]] Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, of course it is the same! It's a constitution, it's the old letter in the new envelope, as Giscard d'Estaing said. We don't support this! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Now a word to my previous speaker: Nothing is irreversible. – These are the threats and the attempt to make critics of the past unblemished. Everything is politically made and can also be politically corrected, for example through a referendum. There is also quite clear: They all reject this, but we want it. Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, a European referendum presupposes what you want to do now, namely the end of the sovereign nation states and a federal state. [[Abg. That's it!]] [[Abg. That's not true!]] This is only to be done after you have taken this step! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They agree and always say that. By a large majority, I voted against at the time, you adopted the EU Constitution, which failed because referendums took place. But that's not what it's all about. The divide to the people has become noteworthy. [[Abg. That's it! That's exactly the point!]] 70 percent of Austrians want a referendum, but you refuse it. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: 75!]] What's your argument? We have heard it several times, especially from Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner. She said quite clearly: People don't understand! – This is an immense misestimation of the Austrians, a great arrogance that is increasingly noticeable here. But above all, this argument does not apply. Even if it were so, even if most of the citizens had not been able to get through, it would be our duty, in particular, to present it in such a way that democratic citizens can take a picture and decide. That is the duty of a democratic politician! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Yesterday, however, the Commissioner and the Foreign Ministers of the European Union opened up to make a little effort and to explain themselves, and they explained and wrote a little in the 'press' entitled 'Fit for the Common European Future'. It then said that this paper was a fitness program, slimmer, faster, stronger, with an unmistakable red-and-white-red profile. You must have done something violent in Brussels. I am now trying to get a little into this discussion. Let's try it! For one thing, “slender”. – "A clear definition of the competences for which we share joint responsibility in the European Union, from the competences of the Member States." A little easier formulated: From now on, it should be clear what Vienna is doing and what Brussels is doing once and for all. Would it be fine if there were not the so-called flexibility clause, Article 308 para. 1 TEU, which states, on a proposal from the Commission, the Council may confer any power on those areas which are not covered by the Treaty. There you can already see: We decide something here, and if there is a need to arrog further powers, then that is already planned. That alone, I think, would have to be surveyed by the population in principle. Secondly, “quick”. – “A more effective Europe that can make faster and better decisions. More qualified majority decision-making – write the two politicians – “instead of unanimity also means a high-quality leap beyond the smallest common denominator.” Let’s remember? In addition to the famous Ederer-Tausender, an argument was quite strong on the occasion of the accession to the European Union, namely: We can't be alone any longer, that's terrible. We will have to understand everything without being able to say it; we must urgently enter it, because if something does not fit us, then we can subsequently put in a veto, because the principle of unanimity applies. [[Abg. Street: It's gone!]] Now it's gone! The basic requirement, one of the most important arguments to lure Austrians into the EU, has fallen! Thirdly, Neutrality. – On the topic of “Solidarity clause”, it is here that we can always decide in each individual case. – Don't sell us for stupid! Neutrality means one has once and for all decided not to participate in foreign hands, not from time to time. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Actually, the discussion is not so difficult, it is actually quite simple. Citizens rightly recognise: Here goes the power center from Vienna to Brussels. You can do that – we do not want it, but at least the citizen has a right to decide on it in a referendum.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12626	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler; also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[9:47:58]] Member of the Commission. Peter Westenthaler (BZÖ): Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Foreign Minister! The Chancellor was opposed to a comparison of the European Union with the Russian dictatorship at the time. I recommend you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to post today’s daily “The Press”, as you can read an interesting interview with the Slovak Commissioner Ján Figel. I quote: “Many people are confusing today’s EU with the USSR.” Union is called in Slavonic ‘Soyuz’. This is the meaning of foreign domination. What was once purchased from Moscow is from Brussels today...” This does not say any of the reasons, but an EU Commissioner – and he has to know! He criticises this, of course, but he has found a fact, namely, the fact that people in his country, even in the eastern countries, do not feel free, but actually feel threatened by foreign rule. It is similar in Austria, of course. In Austria too, there is criticism, because we are actually dealing with a Quasi-EU dictatorship, which carries out demise, fore-mouthing and horror towards the peoples, towards the population. It is a train that travels through Europe, without inmates, without people, that is, only with a few highly-paid workers, but which in reality does not allow any co-determination. Mr Bundeskanzler, there is something that is bothering me, and I am also referring this to the address of the ÖVP: If you are criticising this European Union, including fundamental criticism, you must not be treated as a bad European or as someone who wants to destroy the European Union's project. Because that bothers me. Then: Please remember, ladies and gentlemen, it was the Freedom Party – our forefathers, in 1956, Mr Wilfried Gredler and Mr Co – who first submitted an application to the European Economic Community here in the House. That means: We do not let ourselves be defamed as bad Europeans, but we believe that better Europeans are those who also give up the critical and for the peoples and allow a Europe of peoples and not a Europe of bureaucrats and centralists! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It was in 1956 in the spirit of our forefathers; by the way, the predecessor of the current FPÖ, only at that time was not a centralist EU dictatorship, but a union of states that remain essentially self-determined and have high co-determination rights. That is why we are in favour today. The principle of “keeping a mouth” for the population cannot be the primacy that will now be proclaimed. But you should not go home with false hopes. [[Abg. Strache: This is a constitutional right, Mr. Westenthaler!]] If I'm performing a poster action today, where a party says it's securing a referendum, that's not right. You can't secure her because she's not possible at all, but you should act. Take an example with us! We from the BZÖ support a popular survey – because it is honest and can be carried out immediately – with a clear question: Do you want this EU reform agreement: yes or no? [[Abg. Street: To question something where 75 percent of the Austrians are for it is at all the most absurd what there is!]] In Carinthia, the population will have the opportunity to vote on it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have already collected over 7 000 signatures. [[Abg. Strache: It is absurd to question something when 75 percent of the Austrians are for it!]] We are not just talking, but we are acting, Mr Strache. A federal like Carinthia led by the BZÖ will allow the people to be determined and a public survey made possible and proceed with these non-co-determination rights. I think it is only interesting that in ten minutes you have not spoken once again about leaving the European Union. It's a development. [[Abg. Strache: This is a consequence!]] Have you read the EU Reform Treaty? It says that you can leave! There you must consistently be in favour of the EU reform treaty. So it's all very contradictory, Mr. Strache, what you're doing here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have a consistent attitude, we support a People's Survey and we criticise this Treaty. And we're gonna say something. It needs smarter answers and a smarter policy! That is why we say that there should be a warning in the direction of the European Union. – Yes, Mr Bundeskanzler, freeze the net contributions for next year! Let's not put that much money in there! In fact, we pay €1.7 billion to the European Union; we are the third largest net payer, the largest per capita in the population. We demand that you take the money in your hand and give it to the people who really need it. We want a fair balance. Everything becomes more expensive in this country: food, rent, energy costs. For this purpose, we can provide 200 € in compensation for any household whose income is less than 3 000 €. [[Abg. Strache: Mr Westenthaler, if we were to leave, we would have the money at our disposal!]] We from the BZÖ will present this request today in the debate on Agenda item 1 and will see how the supposedly social SPÖ really sees social warmth. Instead of paying millions and millions of dollars of money to a bad European Union, we believe that we should give it to those in our country who really need it, namely the pensioners, the more socially weak, to compensate for the cost. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] That would be a policy close to the people, which would not harm you either, Federal Chancellor!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12761	From the government bank, Mrs. Bundesminister Dr. Plassnik spoke. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[9:53:20]] Federal Minister for European and International Affairs Dr Ursula Plassnik Mr President! Federal Chancellor! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I plead for sobriety in this emotional debate. We should take a picture, and we should give today's listeners, especially young people and seniors, the opportunity to inform themselves. We should be aware that this reform treaty of the European Union is neither a revolutionary revolution nor, as one of my previous speakers claimed, an old letter in a new envelope. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Was that a quote?]] Rather, the Reform Treaty is an adjustment to the rules under which this European Union works, which today covers 27 countries and more than 450 million people. We have drawn up a number of points with this reform treaty, in long discussions, in a series of preliminary discussions, in which, moreover, many Members of the House have also participated, which have, not too long ago, approved the approval of the forerunner, if you so wish, of the EU Constitutional Treaty, here in this Austrian Parliament the very much wider draft personally and in the Convention and today are surprisingly totally opposed to this adapted reform Treaty. What does this reform Treaty bring? Why do the Federal Chancellor and I become him on 13 March? Sign in Lisbon on December? – He brings in More democracy, more clarity and more security. Leave Let me briefly highlight these points. More democracy: It has already been mentioned, it strengthens the rights of the European Parliament, it increases participation rights, especially in areas where this has not yet been the case. Decisions and procedures shall be streamlined. For the first time, there is a European citizens' initiative, a direct democratic element, which is thus incorporated into the basic rules. [[Abg. Straight: Completely without sustainability and rights!]] But I also share the opinion of those who think that a flickering slug does not do well at referenda to this European integration. The rights of national parliaments are also strengthened. Ladies and gentlemen! Under the heading ‘Subsidiarity’, you will have a number of possibilities to influence the process in the European Union yourself in the future. I think that can only be in your mind. The recognition of the important role of the countries, the municipalities, the local responsibilities is a hard-to-achieve point in this reform treaty, which we do not want to give up, which also goes in the direction of what has always been important for Austria. We want to be an active, a co-founder, a co-decisional part of this European Union. We do not need to be the terrifiers or the fearers, but we can contribute and contribute with a reasonable self-confidence. [[Abg. Strache: Unfortunately the self-confidence is missing!]] We have also worked out more clarity through the formulation of clear objectives, through the catalogue of fundamental rights, which is the world's leading, the best, the most modern. This is also an explanation of the value base of this common European Union. A clear definition of responsibilities, improved procedures, for example in the field of foreign policy, common action with one voice, all of which is at the forefront of the concerns that citizens put to European agreement. In the future, there will be a significant improvement here with the European Foreign Minister or the European Foreign Minister, even if this title is not formally granted. There is a kind of internal clearing here, because here the capacities of the Commission and the Secretariat of the Council are combined in the interests of improving the capacity for action. On neutrality: There's nothing going to change. Contrary to what you try to make an impression or what certain people try to give as an impression – it does not change the legal design. Austria will continue to be able to determine its security policy independently. Whether and how we participate in joint actions is in our order, in the order of the Federal Government and of the House, according to the rules we have given ourselves here. Ladies and gentlemen! It is necessary – and with this I would like to conclude – that the European Union is preparing itself, preparing itself and strengthening itself in a modern world that is not waiting for us to join forces, but that we demand that we remain competitive that our economy is also able to act well under safe conditions. [[Abg. Strache: Militaryly equipped!]] It is also important to create jobs and to make this Europe more socially, just and environmentally aware. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e12857	Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[9:59:22]] Deputies Mag. Elisabeth Grossmann(SPÖ): Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Minister! Today's selection of the "Current Hour" gives us once again the opportunity to present the benefits and absolute necessity of European unification and, above all, the horror of the horror show that you are undisputed about Europe by means of evidence of fact. The fact is that the Treaty of Lisbon makes the EU more democratic and citizen-friendly. [[Abg. Street: Where do you live? How you can represent such a false thing! As if we had no fundamental rights in Austria! That's completely absurd!]] That's where you can calmly praise, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For the first time, fundamental rights are legally enshrined in the EU Treaty, not only as empty words, but as concrete claims which the individual can also claim before the European Court of Justice. Prohibition of death penalty, forced labour, right to a fair trial, protection of private and family life, equality between men and women, fundamental social rights such as strike law, free employment, and so on should apply to all members of the Union. [[Abg. Strache: You didn't read the contract at all! The exact opposite is the case! You have not read the Treaty, Mrs Colleague! That's exactly the opposite you say!]] And this, Mr. Collegue, is what you call a step back? – Then say that quite clearly in your het campaigns! Say that you do not want additional protection of personal freedom, no freedom of religion, no fundamental social rights in the field of the European Union to prevent social dumping in the future! Let us also make it clear that you do not want to strengthen citizens' rights, not a European citizens' initiative, which could at last address the abuse of cruel animal transport across our continent! That would be the first thing I would address if this institution of European peoples wanted to do so, because this problem can only be solved throughout Europe, as well as climate protection, cross-border crime and, of course, the impact of the globalisation of the economy. That is why we need an effective framework so that people's interests do not come under the wheels, namely those people who have nothing but their labour force. But you seem to want exactly that, because we know that extreme legal parties in particular are seeing the feeding ground for their hideous messages. They are specifically intimidating the horror that the sovereignty of Austria is lost with the reform treaty. You can hardly be impressed by the facts that prove the opposite. They ignore the strengthening of the rights of national parliaments. In the event of a breach of the principle of subsidiarity, the yellow card can be shown in the future, and legislative proposals will then go back to the Commission. [[Abg. Strache: But there is no red card anymore, that's exactly the point!]] Parliaments will be informed earlier and more comprehensive about projects and can then take action on their part, such as binding tasks for the members of the government. This means that, ladies and gentlemen, we Members will be more encouraged to participate in European developments in the future. The homework becomes more – but also the design possibilities and the responsibility. I hope none of you are afraid of this extra work. The Treaty also makes it clear once and for all that public health care, water supply, health services and cetera, is the task of the Member States. That's why: Listen Please leave with your fairy tale of the upcoming sale! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] One thing has to be stressed, Mr. Kickl – you can hardly be seen behind your shield that you have built there – is that we are not in a state of inconsistency at the moment. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Neugebauer]] We have a Treaty, namely the Treaty of Nice, but this Treaty is simply no longer sufficient for 27 Member States, and it does not afford so comprehensive and far-reaching civil rights and rights of the national states. [[Abg. That's absurd! Absolutely absurd!]] So the question is: Do we continue to work with a bad Treaty, which sometimes creates legitimate criticism of the EU's policy, or do we create a reformed Treaty that can meet people's expectations for the EU? For the hundredth time: Neutrality is not affected! In the case of assistance, Austria is reserved to decide on the nature and scope of the assistance. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] There is – take Finally, I would ask you to take note of this. – no obligation to participate in military actions. Finally, I'll tell you what I want: I do not want only a neutral Austria, but I want a neutral Europe that ensures peace and prosperity and will not be rubbed between the so-called superpowers. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] Let us finally learn from the experiences of our suffering-tested continent! Thank you. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[10:04]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. Same time of speech: 5 minutes. - Please. [[10:04:57]] Mr Silvia Fuhrmann (ÖVP): Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens are waiting – and that is right! – that the EU is active, that it is transparent, that the EU benefits them and that it is protected from dangers. Our Federal Government has reached the agreement that our goal is to strengthen the trust of Austrians in the European project. I believe that this Constitution is a good result and meets the expectations not only of our federal government, but above all of the local people. The Constitution has provided answers to questions that have long been in need of clarification; Answers, for example, to the role of individual Member States, the division of labour between the EU and the individual Member States, as well as the regions and the rights of individual national parliaments. If the FPÖ here today claims that the rights of the Austrian Parliament will be cut down or even the rights of the Austrians, this is wrong because it is precisely in this Constitution that we are now under control, as the Austrian Parliament can object to legislative projects involving national competence. It is precisely stated in this Constitution that, of course, the Austrian has a veto right against all projects in which Austria is not to participate. [[Abg. Kickl: That's not true! That's wrong!]] I ask you: What is the alternative, ladies and gentlemen, to cooperation at European level? I also believe that the challenges associated with globalisation can only be met with a strong EU, with strong cooperation in Europe. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I can also tell you that this has a lot of opportunities for the boys in particular. We are not afraid of Europe, we are not going to let Europe talk bad either, because we know what opportunities are associated with it. I mean, young people like no other generation benefit from the four freedoms of the Union, because we are more mobile and open to new challenges. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: “Europe” is already something different from the “European Union”!]] I can remind you of some projects. The EU Bologna process, for example, has brought a quality boost to Austria's universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Students are no longer allowed to study what they want!]] We bring our diplomas to a common standard and thus create new opportunities for young university graduates. For example, the ‘Bachelor’, which the EU has brought us, offers hundreds of graduates in the labour market a great opportunity for a job. I can also remind you of the many exchange programmes for students and apprentices that are available to get to know Europe in order to acquire language skills. For example, the EU's Youth in Action programme is about putting intercultural encounters and mediations at the forefront of European values. But European voluntary service also offers the opportunity to spend up to 12 months abroad and to actively participate there in NGOs projects. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But that was possible without EU!]] The EURES project, European Employment Services, is a cooperation network that promotes the mobility of workers in the European economic area. You certainly also know the Leonardo da Vinci project – and this would not happen without the European Union. This helps apprentices to obtain professional internships; Students, students and young workers are supported in a targeted way also in foreign experiences. The Socrates programme is an action programme of the European Union in the field of general education. It is 5 000 students who receive an ERASMUS scholarship each year – I may also remind you of that. All this means opportunities that young people reveal themselves – Mr. Strache, do you want to break these opportunities for young people in Austria? I hope not! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] Rather, I invite you all, my dear ones Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Let us face the challenge of Europe! I hope that we too will be actively involved in Europe in Austria, because only then will we have a chance to give our youth a future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13074	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. They also have a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[10:10:01]] Deputies Mag. Ulrike Lunacek(Green): Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen here in the hall and also in front of the TV screens! It's interesting: One of my previous speakers said Mr. Strache was exaggerating. – I find it not only exaggerates, but it plays a populist-polemic game with the Austrian population, populist and polemic, namely in the form: They are so to speak as the new home party, also with these signs. You are playing as a new home party to cover up your racist, nationalist and anti-European attitude. [[Abg. We don't play, we're!]] [[Abg. Blow: Stop these slanders! These are exactly these left-left slanders!]] These are facts, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are facts why you are now pretending to be the new and the better Austrians. And I'm sure I'll agree with you on this. It's not you! They also place numerous untruths in the area when you talk about this reform Treaty of Lisbon. We Greens would have wished us a lot different to this reform treaty, including the original constitution. It was clear, however, that this will not be a green contract, nor is it clearly red, black and also – fortunately! – no blue, orange or anything out of this field. [[Abg. Strache: It is a greener, because you voted with a Hurra!]] If you say that there is less citizen talk – you don't think about the citizens at all! – then I really wonder if you have not read the contract! The European Parliament is given more rights. You here in our Parliament, all of us sitting and voting here, are given more rights. [[Abg. Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.]] We can do more now, and even more, just what many of you and your party have not seen at all, namely what is coming from the European side to this Parliament and what is to be further processed by us. [[Abg. Strache: We lose rights and participation! You haven't read this contract!]] Do you want to do this work? Do you want to look at these points that come from the European Commission? Then do it! That is exactly what we get through this reform treaty. We in this House, the 183 Members, will have to look at proposals from the European Union in the future and we will be able to show this yellow card – well-known from football – together with some others in Parliament: That's not it! You have to look at this again! [[Abg. Strache: With the yellow card you can't do anything!]] We have not been able to do that so far, and you have not been able to do so. They're just standing there saying, We don't want all of this. [[Abg. Strache: That's ridiculous what you're doing for the best!]] There will be more participation, including for us. There will be the Charter of Fundamental Rights. It would also be better for us to join the United Kingdom and Poland, but individual citizens will now also have more rights to the institutions of the European Union. There was no such thing in the form so far. You don't want all of this: People's desires can be made more, and the European Union will join the Human Rights Convention. [[Abg. Strache: But a referendum you want to refuse the Austrians!]] You don't want all of this. No, in Austria alone, we don't want a referendum, because that would be the way my club chief Van der Bellen has already said. We want a Europe-wide referendum, for which we have always taken action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: No German can decide on neutrality! What the fuck!]] To the former Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who said again today, he proposed this ten years ago with his former colleague Dini: In the proposal of the Convention was the European referendum. Do you know – also addressed to Klubobmann Schüssel – who declared Europe's referendum at the Intergovernmental Conference following the Convention's decision? – The governments of the time, as well as governments formed by ÖVP and Blue at the time. At the time, these people have declared that there is a European referendum. That is why, in part, it is not included in the Treaty. Don't talk about it now that we didn't use it! [[Abg. Strache: It is about the referendum in Austria, ladies and gentlemen!]] We want a Europe-wide referendum or at least a European People's Survey so that all people in this EU can decide on it. [[Abg. Strache: Neither a Pole nor a Czech nor a German can decide on our state sovereignty!]] Another thing: They are talking about the Union becoming the European Union's war project. – The formation of the military core Europe is also not right for us Greens, that is true, but neutrality is not abolished! [[Abg. Strache: That's why you agree!]] It is even contained in the Reform Treaty that each Member State is clearly and clearly responsible for territorial defence and not the EU itself. This means that the rights and possibilities of the neutrals are even strengthened. Look closely at the text! Neither the neutrality nor the sovereignty of Austria are abolished. Terms that may also be important to you, such as ‘full employment’, ‘social market economy’, are set as the objective of the Union. [[Abg. Strache: No, they are not promoted!]] The part that was originally contained in the third part of the Constitutional Treaty – neoliberal orientation – is outside. You don't see all these things at all. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] You just want to put your racist, nationalistic, anti-European thoughts in the foreground, play as a home party, but have something quite different in mind. [[Abg. Strache: Look, with this slander you can stop right away! Mr President.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13326	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking. [[10:15:07]] Member Herbert Kickl(FPÖ): Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the Green Group's colleagues have nothing to do with the term 'home' proves once again in this House that there is nothing else to expect. So the disappointment is limited. It is already a strong piece, however, when Mrs Fuhrmann presents himself as the speaker's desk and intends to speak for the young people in Austria, and opens up the European horizons to her. The claim you are making here, ladies and gentlemen, is a rather risky one, since you have just managed to be elected by 51 percent without a candidate in your youth, just scratched the curve. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Fuhrmann.]] Their democratic legitimacy is very limited. Another thing about the Greens: Professor Van der Bellen, from today's day on you should have the claim to be a party of citizens' initiatives hanging on to the nail, because if you have done so in the way down from above on small democratic initiatives, as you have done in the example Laa on the Thaya, [[Abg. Temelín!]] It is in breach of this right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You didn't understand anything!]] Now I have arrived at the Federal Chancellor's office – there's really no wonder, there's nothing else you can expect –: Today, he defends the EU's Commissioners, who are mainly at war with democracy. It has not been too long since his party was the one that the Russian Commissioners first congratulated at that time, where they tried to turn the wheel of time back and basically suffocate the democracy movement in the germ. That's why you're at least consistent. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as the European Union is concerned, one must not be a pessimist, but only a realist, to know that this reform treaty is hardly a good thing for us. You can turn it and turn it around, as you want, people have this miserable latent of promises in their ears, with which you have lured it into the EU – otherwise you can't call it. You still have very much in mind, as you all, whether black, red, green or orange, briefly, as in France, as well as the popular vote, spread ash to the head and talked about the need to rethink that this project of the European Union should not be jeopardised by the fact that it is particularly bourgeois. Now we know what you mean by being a citizen. Closeness to the citizen means refusing to give people the legitimate right to a referendum. That's obvious. Your interpretation of closeness to citizens – our free interpretation is not that, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This Union can still make such an effort – and, of course, in conjunction with you – and therefore bring beautiful vocabulary, such as the concept of the social union – that sounds great, but that is all only glare. These are things that one cannot trust as a learned European – otherwise it cannot be described. One can blame this European Union a lot, but certainly not that it is social, and certainly not that it intends to make itself social in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] It's very easy to explain why this is so: There is something like a genetic defect in this European Union. This is because the driving forces in Brussels assume that the mechanisms of the free market, of unhindered competition, of elbow neoliberalism should be those elements that lead to harmonisation of social systems. Well, good night, you can just say. The terms that are in the centre clearly show what the number one is: Economic growth at any price, competitiveness, site benefits. That is why everything is turning, and everything else is mercilessly subordinated to these principles. Mr Barroso illustrated it very beautifully in a picture, saying: The EU has three children, the first is the economy – you notice every day anyway – and the second is the environment – of which we have not yet received much from looking at the latest developments – and the third is to be the social one. And then he said, If the economy is bad, you have to take care of this one sick child and you must not resist the other. – The others are the environment and the social sector. So you can't resist and drive around for too long. Now I'm wondering, When is the economy so good that she's good enough? – Never is the economy so good that it is good enough for it and that those who make the profits are in fact satisfied with what they have achieved. So we can only talk about a stepchild in the field of social policy for this European Union. When it comes to the EU, we will no longer work to live in the future, but this will turn around: We'll live to work. – This is perhaps your idea of a social future, and our liberal idea is not that. And if it goes after this European Union, then what we understand as full-time employment is a run-out model and is replaced by a sum of part-time jobs and the like. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] At the age of retirement, the EU also intends to go up. Ladies and gentlemen! I'll finish. The Constitution states: Right goes from the people. – Make sure that this principle is implemented – and not as you have done so far, that the people have the right to do so!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13428	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Also 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking. [[10:20:43]] Member Herbert Scheibner (BZÖ): Mr President. Good morning, Federal Chancellor! I hope the reading is not so exciting that you could not follow the course of the National Council meeting, because I think it is important to differentiate, Mr Bundeskanzler! [[Interference of Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer.]] From my point of view, it's not true. Their thesis and the euphorics of the European Union, that everything is good in the European Union and everyone who is critical is an anti-European, nor is the thesis of the opponents, who have also been placed here today, that this is the hort of evil and that the European Union and Europe are the end of the sovereignty of the national states. Finally, the European Union is a reality. This means that we must find ourselves or engage ourselves accordingly. There was a referendum in 1994, and more than 60 percent of Austrians voted in favour of this European Union. Whether anyone who voted in favour of the EU knew at the time what consequences this will have was put on the table. But we are now a member of the European Union. And I am now concerned with making the best of this reality. There are two points to be discussed. One is, of course, the development of the European Union itself, but the second is also how Austria is represented in the European Union. This has not yet been achieved, Mr President, and you would be required to do so. What did you bring with you from the negotiations on the reform treaty? It is always criticized: The Poles have negotiated so hard, and the British are leading their own things. Why would you want to criticize that? It is a matter of course – with all the need to develop a common Europe – that the people's own interests should nevertheless be negotiated and taken into account. Mr Bundeskanzler, there would have been a whole series of measures that you could have represented there. This concerns, for example, the problem of universities where the European Union, in full recognition of reality, wants to overcome the problems of Germany with 80 million inhabitants in Austria. A five-year break is too little here. What about the guarantee for infrastructure projects that, as I hear, are at risk? Or what about reducing our EU contributions? That would have been a task of Austrian foreign policy and of you, if you already agree to this reform treaty, then also to bring some benefits to Austria home. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When we discuss the reform treaty, there is no doubt: It is an improvement towards the present situation, the Treaty of Nice, but a deterioration in the original projects. Much of what we criticise against the European Union would have improved the Constitutional Treaty at least in some areas. Especially the critics – including the FPÖ – demand, for example, the fight in globalisation: a strong Europe against Asia, also against the United States. But this cannot be a state alone, even the much praised Switzerland. [[Abg. That's why it has bilateral agreements, Switzerland!]] – Yes, bilateral agreements. But if you take Switzerland as an example, you have to take the whole system of Switzerland. I don't know if you want to believe the Austrians to work until the age of 67 and 70. [[Abg. Strache: I think that direct democracy is a lot of fun!]] There are multinational corporations, you are always against it! [[Abg. Strache: Direct democracy is very reasonable in Switzerland!]] Mr. Strache, if you already scatter sand into the eyes of the people here: You are now for the referendum. Yes, wonderful! We're too! Just, I told you the last time... [[Abg. Strache: Why did you vote against it?]] You're asking for something here – I asked you, and you said: We shall vote on the reform treaty!; perhaps you do not know, but I told you the last time that the Austrian Constitution does not provide for a referendum on international treaties – so you demand something you should know that there is no such thing. If you want to change this, it is not enough to cry out, to be against it, Mr Strache. That's too little. [[Abg. Strache: Mr Scheibner, this is a nonsense that you celebrate!]] Mr Strache, at the last meeting of the Constitutional Committee, we made a request to amend the Austrian Constitution so that future referendums on international treaties are possible. We'll bring that in again. If you agree, we will have this opportunity in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I'll tell you: We should think about the future! Our model for the European Union is core Europe, that the wealthy, the rich countries take over the entire spectrum of integration, if it also wants the people in a referendum to take over only modules from it, and that in the extreme field, one organizes a “partnership for Europe” for all those countries that cannot join the European Union, such as Turkey or others. [[Abg. Strache: That's why people refuse to vote?! That's absurd!]] That would be a future perspective. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I expect you, Mr Bundeskanzler, to finally act in the interests of Europe, but also in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13570	No one is reporting on this. The current hour is over. I now also ask colleagues from the Group of the European Liberal, Reformist and Reformist Party to withdraw their plates. [[The representatives of the FPÖ shall remove the above panels.]] [[10:26:24]] Entry and allocations President Dr Michael Spindelegger: As regards the negotiated items and their allocation, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[10:26:39]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We are now coming to the debate within the meaning of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure. Mr Ing. Westenthaler raised written objections to the written agenda of today's meeting. The objections concern the inclusion of the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template in 314, e.g.: Federal Constitutional Law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act and adopts a First Federal Constitutional Law (370 d.b.), as well as the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Asylum Court Constitutional Law in 371 D.B. as points 1 and 2 of today's agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. In the debate under Rule 50 of the Rules of Procedure, a speaker or a speaker with a speaking time of 4 minutes is agreed upon following a proposal from the President-in-Office's Conference. The number of speakers is as follows: BZÖ, Greens, Liberals, ÖVP and SPÖ. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. Westenthaler. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann. [[10:27:49]] Member of the Commission. Peter Westenthaler (BZÖ): Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have this objection debate according to § 50 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure is therefore calling for the two constitutional acts of tomorrow, Agenda items 1 and 2, to be put on today's agenda at the beginning, because this is the only possibility or the only variant to discuss these matters in this House at least a little more comprehensive than is planned. We could then refer these materials back today, make a Constitutional Committee tomorrow and still decide in Parliament in the morning. What is happening here in these two agenda items is unique, Mr Cap. They were the ones who always criticized “Speed kills”. They've always put their fingers on it and told me that shouldn't happen. What happens now, however, is much more than “Speed kills”. In this – I say it carefully – outrage of the Constitution that is happening here, not only will popular elections be difficult in the future. In a kind of general empowerment law, Mr. Strache, EU treaties are then no longer to be voted on at all, and you did not get that in committee at all. (Abg. Street: Ha, ha! Who has it then revealed to the public? We!) But that's much worse than that, today and tomorrow, if you don't put it on the agenda today, this big coalition is choosing an incredible way of doing it. In a night and fog action, without consideration, without previous discussion, without expert opinion, compulsory membership is raised in the constitutional rank to the red and black chambers. That is, the great coalition pragmatizes itself in the Constitution. It's going over. It's not going to be discussed. It is supposed to be shuddered by Parliament. This is a real scandal we see here from the BZÖ. This Decision will be accompanied by far-reaching changes in the constitutional structure. And I'll tell you something, Mr. Cap and Dr. Schüssel: If you're honest, don't write the big coalition in the Constitution about the back door, but then change the article 1 of the Constitution and write in there: Austria is a great coalition, all power comes from red and black. - That's what you want. And this is the democratic scandal that is taking place here, my dear ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You'll have a gag-constitution here – yes: a gag-constitution! – where a large part of Austrian society, citizens, entrepreneurs, workers, all those who are obliged to be members in the 14 chambers, are also subject to this obligation by constitutional provisions and are subject to this obligation. This is a step back, and it is not constitutional, nor is it worthy of a constitution! It also devalues the Constitution by writing your prizes of power into a constitution. We reject that! This is a far-reaching change, and that is why we want to discuss it today. We want to put an end to this disfavor today, because we want a society of citizens who want to live in freedom, who want to decide for themselves, whether they join a chamber or not, who want to decide for themselves on their stand and who are not forced by you by constitutional law – as in a communist dictatorship – to be a member of a system that has long been cared for. This is your problem: This system has taken care of! And you will find in BZÖ the greatest and most bitter opponent of this forced chamber system. That's what we're writing to you in the main book today. Therefore: Give an opportunity for freedom of expression, Mr Cap! Give you an opportunity to have freedom of discussion and to ensure that we can discuss this matter today, that there is another Constitutional Committee and that we also have the opportunity of taking a closer look at your current constitutional coup with experts in the form of a review!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e13926	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:, who took his seat again (in the direction of SPÖ and ÖVP) A real coup is that! The chamber system you want to write into the Constitution, your disused chamber system! This is a real coup, a scandal special!]] [[10:31:50]] Member Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek (Green): Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Green Group also supports the request to put the Constitutional Package on the agenda today, so that it can be discussed first and then referred back to the Committee. We justify this by the fact that, I believe, it is unique in the history of this House that a constitutional novel has been treated so blatantly. I mean to the Parliament, to the groups concerned and to the federal constitution. – A unique process! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There was once a party in the opposition that had, I think, 36 percent, and the clubman and the party leader of this party have always emphasized: We learned in opposition! It is important that those concerned by laws and the Constitution have the opportunity to express their opinion, to give an opinion that they will also be involved in the legislative process! – That was once. That was almost fairytale once. Meanwhile, this opposition party has forgotten this and is in the government and is making it worse than ever before! This is as if Max and Moritz are working together on the federal constitution: Max, the ÖVP, and Moritz, the SPÖ. In summer, a large package for eight weeks goes into review. The federal states, the highest courts, all the bodies concerned writing opinions, look at it closely, discuss it, bring themselves in. – This package disappears, disappears somewhere – I don’t know where. Instead, something completely new is presented in a Council of Ministers, which even the ministers saw only 24 hours before and which massively intervenes in the rule of law of the Austrian Federal Constitution. Then the committee comes. On Friday at night, a large package will be added to the Committee, which will cover the fourfold amount of the original novels. I emphasize: the fourfold amount! Faith You are, in fact, in line with the democratic principle that Members in this House know at all what they are voting on in any way? – let alone, that those concerned have only the slightest chance to say: Excuse me, Mr President, that has been forgotten, that is not balanced, that is wrong from certain points of view! No, the calculation is clear: With this ominous innovation of the federal constitution, as you now clearly plan it through the bank, you have a very obvious calculation, namely the criticism of the affected public, the criticism of the people who then have to work on suffocating in the germ, not giving them any chance to get public in any form. And that this path is chosen once again describes how sluggish, how sloppy and how responsible you deal with the most important rules of the game, namely with our federal constitution. And I think it is the only way to discuss this constitutional package for the first time today and then refer it back to the Committee. But it's even worse, you still have something else today: They now want to pass laws without committees. Today, they want to make a deadline application for the Security Police Act, including a very sensitive matter, without a committee, because Max and Moritz, the two who have been dealing with the federal constitution, have been unable to make a committee appointment since January. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Incredible! I can't believe it!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] There was a committee appointment, then you disputed again, and the date was cancelled again, and now you want to simply whip a law through this National Council without referral in committee. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Parnigoni]] This is unique in Austrian history of democracy! – Please go in, because this is a sign of poverty for the rule of law, for the concept of democracy and, above all, for how we deal with the affected public and with the people in whose service we stand here! The motto “Speed kills” and the process of driving over, you yourself as a clubman and as party leader of the SPÖ back then, I believe, have been criticized – but now it is a means to be applied and welcome you to simply eliminate criticism and make it mouth-death!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14023	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Also 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[10:35:49]] Member Heinz-Christian Strache (FPÖ): Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism of my previous speakers is absolutely justified. What we're experiencing here is exactly what we've been holding in the current hour: Democracy reduction at all corners and ends, “Speed kills”! – While you, Mr Klubobmann Cap, have rightly criticized such practices earlier, in opposition, today, together with the ÖVP, you are responsible for promoting democracy reduction. There has been no such thing, please, in this brutal way and form at all: Since January, the Committee on the Interior has not even spoken – and then you go here today and try to run through a law with an additional request, namely a security police law. We are experiencing here that you want to set the compulsory membership in the chambers in the Constitution – which means nothing else than to raise the nonsense of the compulsory membership in the constitutional order, apparently to prepare for the future already the majority voting right, so that the ÖVP or SPÖ are sure that in the future – if you can then rule alone in the majority government, because you may already have the absolute majority of the mandates here in the house – nothing more can change the chamber system. That's probably the background! This is about fundamental changes in our legal system, where you do not at all want to deal with our parliamentarians in sufficient democratic terms and to discuss them in sufficient detail. And that's very, very sad. But on the other hand, what the orange-green alliance wants to do here today, namely a referral back, actually does not do anything. That does not mean anything, because at the end of the day we are exactly where we are with this agenda: At the latest on Thursday, we would have the discussion anyway and would have to make a decision. That means, of course, we want to discuss whether these decisions are reasonable or not. We do not consider many decisions to be reasonable, we do not think that the asylum court, as it will be on the agenda, is necessarily for the yellow of the egg, and above all because the ban on innovation is not present again: There is no strict ban on innovation again! – We will discuss this in detail tomorrow. We are experiencing a green-orange alliance here, which is interesting to me, because with the Greens we know that they want to let everyone into the country, and with the oranges we know that in the time of their government responsibility they have left everyone in the country, namely, over 300,000 immigrants. At the same time, the number of asylum applications has exploded between 2000 and 2006: There have been over 180 000 asylum applications at this time. . So the Greens couldn't have made that worse, so I'll give you the right, Mr Westenthaler. But that you don't make such a talk, I understand, because there you have enough butter on your head, and it's understandable that you don't mention and address something like that. We say: The fact that ÖVP has repeatedly had problems with parliamentaryism in this country, we know, but that the Social Democrats now also have problems with parliamentarianism and apparently with parliamentaryism are on the foot of war is more than disappointing, because you have promised and promised something else to the Austrian citizens on these issues too, and once again you prove the opposite!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14082	Next, Mrs. Dr. Karl will speak. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[10:39:28]] Deputies Mag. Dr Beatrix Karl(ÖVP): Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say that BZÖ's request surprises me. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We believe that!]] I don't know how you really imagine that! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You wanted to abolish the opposition at all! They wanted to abolish the opposition, we know that!]] No, I don't want to abolish the opposition. Only: Explain to me how you will present this detailed consultation in the Constitutional Committee! Today we have a meeting that will probably last until midnight, and tomorrow we will also have a meeting of 9 a.m. in the morning to midnight. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Some of you stay a little faster!]] Of course, from midnight until 2 p.m. in the morning or until 4 p.m. in the morning, you can “detail in the Constitutional Committee” – how detailed this discussion will be, it is said. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where you have to stop a little bit of work!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: There you have to do a little bit for the money you get!]] Above all, I have always assumed that the BZÖ is very likely to be for the establishment of an asylum court! So I don't know how to interpret this swivel. Is that supposed to mean that BZÖ doesn't want any more asylum court now? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Anyway: We still want this asylum court! I should also like to remind you that the transformation of the independent Bundesasylsenate into a proper asylum court in the judicial and government is already in the debate for a longer time. ==References== In January 2006, leading lawyers from Austria, namely Jabloner, Helige, Bisanz and Mayer, called for the immediate establishment of an asylum court during a panel discussion in the jurisdiction. In order to bring asylum proceedings before their own courts, they saw the only effective measure for a decent case law based on rule of law and for a significant reduction in asylum procedures. The rejection requested by you also refers to the proposed amendment to the Federal Constitutional Act. At the same time, the system of forced chambers described by you as so terrible is particularly rejected. I would like to draw your attention to a very important point: The wording that has now been adopted makes it clear that the future constitutionally anchored social partnership is not limited to the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture and the Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: All of you have written in, all right!]] There is no doubt that the Chamber of Labour may also be part of this social partners, and I think this is a very important, essential point. [[Abg. Scheibner: It's not inside!]] [[Call at BZÖ:The social partners...!]] – The Social Partnership is in § 120a para. 2 B-VG in connection with the self-government bodies, and we want to establish this social partnership! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Yes, but the chambers are not in there that you have promised!]] Of course, the above-mentioned materials, which you want to move from tomorrow to today, are very important, but they should by no means narrow the importance of the agenda items for today. What is it about today? – It is nothing less than about key health and social issues! Or do you want to say that the organisation and financing of the health system or the increase in pensions are not important enough to be debated and decided today as the first item on the agenda? Then we want to address the concerns of the Consumer Protection Committee and the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. Isn't that important? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If it went to you, the opposition should not say anything at all in the House! Then we do away with minority rights!]] Should we not debate this on the first day, but only tomorrow, because we are pushing it backwards? – I am surprised, honestly, that health and social policy concerns seem not to be important enough to debate them on the first day. I can tell you: I am ready to discuss these social and health concerns today, and thus before the federal constitution. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They're not on the agenda at all!]] – Surely this is on the agenda today! - Then you didn't read it properly. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Did you report? You're not on the list of speakers at all!]] – But I will decide on it! Or do you think I won't decide? [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You're not on the speaker list at all!]] - Oja: I am referring to the report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the amendment of unemployment insurance. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... is later!]] This is also one of “social”! Or do you want to claim that the change in unemployment insurance does not count as “work and social”? [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] That would be completely new to me! That would be a completely new development, I must say. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: Mrs Colleague, your speaking time is over! The closing sentence, please! Deputies Mag. Dr Beatrix Karl [[Continue]] My final sentence is: For the reasons set out, we consider the agenda to be very objective and effective, we do not want to change the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14353	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague. [[10:43:59]] Member Dr Josef Cap (SPÖ): Mr President. High house! I believe that many of the criticisms of the opposition are fully justified. [[Cheerfulness and detonative applause at the FPÖ.]] Yeah, yeah, I don't have a problem there, and there's no but. I see this as well, and I believe that the process of the government, with regard to scheduling and the associated impact on Parliament's work, must change, and that this can be improved, because we want to discuss these issues here in peace. I am also in favour of the fact that in the future constitutional measures should be taken into consideration that this should not go through table templates. – We will therefore understand in many points anyway. I say this quite openly here, and I have already deposited it and will do it again. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Ash! Ash on the head!]] Secondly, For those who cannot suffer the great coalition, I would just like to say one thing: No one is thinking about putting that into the Constitution! I'm the last person who wants to. – By the way, however, you would have had the opportunity to set up a minority government in the last few months when it was discussed, in order to support a minority government. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] - They didn't want that! Especially the Greens did not want that at the time. This could have prevented you from having a big coalition! [[Abg. Scheibner: Aha!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Josef, let's talk about it again! Let's talk about it again!]] But don't accept the responsibility to say: I withdraw, I bear no responsibility!, and then I say: Oh, now there's the big coalition!? – It must be told to the Austrian population that you have carried this! You said: I feel more comfortable in the opposition, I do not have to bear any responsibility, and the two great ones are supposed to make the coalition! – That’s what you said at the time. [[Abg. Scheibner shakes the head.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We wanted to prevent the great coalition!]] That's what we did. And now you have to live with it! So not that you are now fleeing from this responsibility. And because you say: Social partners in the Constitution. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What about the Security Police Act? Talk about the security police law!]] – The social partners have done great things for Austria for more than 50 years! It's a kind of real constitution. [[Abg. Scheibner: But who is that?]] And perhaps it is even more decent to make a formal constitution out of the real constitution. [[Abg. Scheibner: But who is that?]] - That's all there is. What you're telling us is not everything inside! Sometimes I think that's a union of poets, a poet-olimp, when one comes to the speaker's desk here, because things that don't agree with reality at all. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Forced membership you have written in!]] The referendum will not be abolished. At any time, if two thirds call for this, a referendum can be carried out. [[Abg. Street: “If two thirds demand it ”!]] It's gonna stay with you. That was the case with the EU treaties, and that will always be the case. [[Abg. Street: “If two thirds demand it ”!]] - Again: Greetings from the poet Olympic! It's not like that! I am also glad that the asylum court is on the agenda. It has been discussed for years now. It was also an election promise from us: Promise – held! It is therefore on the agenda tomorrow, it will be discussed and, at all events, it will be decided. - So, what is that? And with regard to the appeal to give freedom of expression and freedom of speech a chance: Today's debate is the best proof that freedom of speech applies here, of course, freedom of expression! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: In the committee you cheated...!]] You can continue by saying: Where I am possible, where I am going, where the Socialist parliamentary group prevails, there will be this form of parliamentarianism, where the opposition parties of course have the opportunity to express themselves in detail here. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is useful but very little!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Even with minority rights? What about minority rights?]] Just one, please don't do it, just one not: Shame! There, where you already have a preconceived opinion and where you want to have a little bit later on here in Parliament and discuss it so that you can constantly repeat this preconceived opinion, as at a prayer mill, and do not want to discuss it with us at all, because you are not open at all and because you do not want to go into a consensus, which is then to argue democratically, I must say: That's cheating! I'm not going to let that go because that's not the way it is! But where you are open, where we like to be open, I say: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell me a presentation where the government has responded to the opposition, with an addition!]] Meet us and make compromises and consensus! Then: I take the opinion of the opposition parties seriously, we take them seriously, and I hope the government too will take them seriously on many issues. The best thing that exists are five-party applications, five-party decisions – the largest possible majority. I say that very seriously, because I believe that every individual must be respected, every individual here in the house as well as any voters and any voters who have elected these parties. And I'll stay there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14597	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote; I can ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats. I would like to ask those Members who want to take account of the objections, i.e. the Constitutional Committee's report on the 314th government proposal.: Federal Constitutional Law, which amends the Federal Constitutional Act and adopts a First Federal Constitutional Law, as well as the report and request of the Constitutional Committee on the draft Asylum Court Constitutional Law in 371 d.b. to negotiate as points 1 and 2 of today's agenda in order to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Therefore, the agenda for today's sitting in writing remains in place. Announcement of a urgent request President Dr Michael Spindelegger: Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Members of Parliament, asked for urgent consideration of the written question put to the Federal Chancellor before entering the agenda 2492/J by Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, on the threat of billions of debacles in climate protection for Austria. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines President Dr Michael Spindelegger: Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the Members of Parliament have requested Parnigoni and Kößl to report to the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template 158, B.C.: The Federal Act amending the Security Police Act lasts until 5. ==References== The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. In addition, MEPs have requested Parnigoni and Kößl to report to the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government template 272 d.b. concerning a federal law amending the Security Police Act, the Border Control Act and the Police Cooperation Act, a period of until 5. ==References== This request will also be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. I've had the minutes of the current hour presented. Mrs Lunacek, in her conclusion, accused Mr Deputies of ‘racial attitude’. That's why I give her a call for order. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] – No condolences, ladies and gentlemen! Agenda President Dr Michael Spindelegger: The debate on points 1 to 3, 4 and 5, 6 and 7, 8 to 10, 12 and 13, 14 to 18, 20 and 21, 24 and 25 and 26 and 27 of the agenda is proposed. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation President Dr Michael Spindelegger: In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. A day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been proposed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and Freeman each 108 minutes as well as BZÖ 63 minutes. For the time of television transmission until 1 p.m., the following speaking time agreement has been reached: one speech per group of 8 minutes, then a speech by a member of the government with 10 minutes, then a speech per group of 7 minutes, then a speech by a member of the government with 10 minutes, and a speech per group of 6 minutes each. The following series of speakers has also been agreed within the television period: SPÖ, ÖVP, Greens, FPÖ and BZÖ. The President-in-Office of the Council/Chairman shall, before the end of the final round, evenly distribute the remaining term of speech to the political groups after consultation with the presidents of the club. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:52:33]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (297 d.a._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, the Medical Law 1998, the Private Hospitals Finance Fund Act, the General Social Insurance Act, the Commercial Social Insurance Act, the Farmers' Social Insurance Act, the Civilian Health and Accident Insurance Act, the Unemployment Insurance Act 1977, the Special Assistance Act, the Military Services Act, the War Victims' Insurance Act 1957 and the Family Allowance Act 1967 (Federal Law adapting legislation to the Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of health care for the years 2008 to 2013 (352 d.b.) 2. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Pension Act 1965 and the Federal Railway Pension Act (353 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (308 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of health care (345d.b.) President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We now come to points 1 to 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs Csörgits. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[10:53:27]] Member Renate Csörgits(SPÖ): Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the pension to be decided on under this item can be seen, because, ladies and gentlemen, for almost 90 percent of pensioners there is a two-man in front of the comma. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a result, the increase in pensions has been significantly higher than proposed by the Pension Commission. I can remind you: The Pension Commission has proposed 1.7 percent. – For us, however, it was always clear that pensioners must also get their contribution from the good economic situation in Austria, and from the outset Mr. Federal Chancellor Gu- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. So there was a social staggering, and there were no single payments, but a percentage. An important principle has also been taken into account in the adjustment of pensions, namely the balance of interests: on the one hand, to equip older people in our country with more pensions and, on the other hand, to take care of young people with respect to the generation agreement. What is also worth mentioning is the fact that, for the first time in many years, for the first time, we have been discussing and negotiating together with the representatives of the Council of Senior Citizens. What exactly does the increase in the pension now look like? – As I have already mentioned, the winners are mainly those who have small and medium-sized pensions. The compensation rate, better known as ‘minimum pensions’, is increased most. Here's a plus of 2.9 percent: After 726 € in 2007, the minimum pensions will be 747 € next year. It is therefore the second time in a row that, thanks to the Social Democrats in the Federal Government, the minimum pensions have been significantly increased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then: For us, ladies and gentlemen, it was always a requirement that no pension should be below the poverty line. How does that look for the other pensions now? – People with pensions between €747 and €1 050 receive €21 per month, between €1 050 and €1 700, and for pensions between €1 700 and €2 161, the percentage drops from 2 percent to 1.7 percent. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention once again that it is quite, very important that there has been no one-time payments, because such one-time payments do not affect a pension increase in the long term, they are just a one-time payment. There are sustainable effects on pension systems and pensions in the event of a staggered and socially oriented increase. It is very important – and I would like to stress it once again – that consideration has been given to the legitimate interests of the older generation on the one hand, but at the same time it has been taken to ensure that the pension system remains financial in the long term. Although some experts have said that this is an attack on the young generation, I would like to say again: That's not the case! And I would also like to quote the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said: We make pension increases for people and not for experts! The increase in pensions is therefore poor, socially well thought out, and this is once again an important point of the Government Convention. In the second part of my speech, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address a further social policy improvement, namely the social equality of free workers. At the outset, I would like to point out that the SPÖ was able to achieve that an amendment had been tabled together with the ÖVP, because regrettably the government template presented did not provide for the protection of the minor employees and the free workers in the ASVG. How many people are affected? – It can be assumed once that in October this year 25 800 people were employed in so-called free service relations. And if there is still little employment, then more than 70 000 people are found, and 40,000 of them are women. It must also be noted that this is an employment form which is growing very strongly in Austria. Therefore, it was a great concern for us that these workers also fall under the protection of social security. What does this mean for the workers concerned? ==References== In January 2008, these employees will receive sickness benefits from the fourth day of incapacity for work. And for women particularly important and crucial is that they will also receive weekly money according to their actual income and thus also early weekly money. In addition, they are also included in unemployment insurance and employee care. Ladies and gentlemen, with this in mind, a long-standing demand of the ÖGB and the Chambers of Workers has been realized, so that these people in these forms of employment have also been safeguarded technically by social security schemes. I would like to see a great many of these forms of employment transformed into a normal service, and the next step will undoubtedly be that this employment group should also be included in labour law protection. Ladies and gentlemen, with these amendments, a social milestone will be set again in order to better equip Austrian workers. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e14926	The next speaker is Mr Amon. A maximum of 8 minutes is also speaking time. Please, my colleague. [[11:00:42]] Member Werner Amon, MBA (ÖVP): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Csörgits has already mentioned that today we are really pleased to report on the increases for pensioners. It is, I think, very positive that we can increase pensions by 2.1 percent – in the case of higher pensions, it is a little less, it will be cut down – and that, as Mrs Csörgits pointed out, we are increasing the minimum pension rate by 2.9%, from € 726 to €747. That is, I think, a beautiful day for the Austrian pensioners. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] But it is not quite as Mrs Csörgits explained that this will finally be possible, because social democrats are in the Federal Government, but, of course, it can only be distributed what is being achieved. Of course, it is only possible to distribute what is achieved thanks to a good economy. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, there is already the question of the rightful question: Who is responsible for this economic development? And above all: Who is responsible for the pension reform, ladies and gentlemen? And thanks to the governments under Wolfgang Schüssel, who laid a basis for the country to stand well today and that we do not have to talk about moderate increases. [[Complementary by the ÖVP and by the BZÖ Deputies]] [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] One thing, I think, is quite interesting, and one really should stick to the truth with these things: Mrs Csörgits, you have also mentioned that for the second time, under the participation of social democrats in the Federal Government, the compensatory allowance rate has been substantially increased. You know, of course, that's not true, because the last serious increase, from €693 to €726, is still under the old government. Thanks to the old Federal Government for this increase! [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] I think it is very well that a further massive increase has now been made under the new government. I would also like to remind you that there have been increases and adjustments of pensions over the last seven years. It's not like it's always shown that pensioners had to endure cuts. There have already been cuts: There was a single zero wage round for pensioners in the past, and that was under a government climate. I would like to say this clearly here. They also know that in recent years the economy has had quite a deal. That is why the view of the fence is also worth looking at, because there has actually been over many years under a socially democratic government, by the way: with the participation of the Green, zero wage rounds. But there were not only zero wage rounds for pensioners, but there was also a cancellation of holiday and Christmas money there, and there was an increase in the retirement age from 65 to 67 years. – So social democrats act when they are left alone! We don't do that, ladies and gentlemen. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] We are careful that the system remains in balance, even for the boys, what, I think, is very crucial. Socialist chancellors are well-known for the fact that they like to write letters, pensionist letters in particular. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Pensionists!]] [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] The Pepi Cap here in the first row is completely concentrated, because of course it knows exactly what is coming. I think he was the SPÖ's central secretary at the time when the first pensioner's letter was sent by Federal Chancellor Vranitzky. He didn't do him well in the population, I think. [[Call the SPÖ: But!]] Now Dr. Gusenbauer has again written a letter to the pensioners. Mr. Dr. Cap, perhaps you can tell whom you received this address material for these letters, because I have to tell you, it seems to be a bad address material, because there have been very, very many written that no longer live. Mr. Dr. Cap, I find this a bit unscrupulous to distribute such letters with the help of such an address material. Furthermore, the contents of the letter must also be criticized. Dr. Gusenbauer criticizes the old Federal Government to end the sentence in the first paragraph: ‘This is not decent.’ [[Abg. Scheibner: Ah that? That's all kinds of things!]] It's very interesting when he writes in the third paragraph: “We now have the minimum pensions – namely the Social Democrats – “massively increased for the second time in a row.” – This is the untruth! This is not decent, Dr. Gusenbauer, if you say so. It's not decent! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You, Mr Bundeskanzler, continue to write: “We can only do this because we have stimulated employment.” – Thank you, Wolfgang Schüssel! It was the government under Wolfgang Schüssel, which has stimulated employment, because the turnaround on the labour market, as you know, has been feeling since spring 2006 and not since spring 2007, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] And I find the last sentence particularly significant. I did not know that there is only the Social Democratic Chancellor, I always assumed that this is a function that actually covers the entire federal government. That's what it says: “Together with my SPÖ government team, I will make it a good year for you.” – Gusenbauer means next year. ==References====External links== January the amnesty ends and we expect a care chaos because the pensioners have not been informed accordingly, there is a lack of preparation, then it will probably not be too good a start for these affected persons. And I tell you, I am very disappointed that you were not willing to respond to our wishes in this regard.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15062	The next point is Mr Oellinger. 8 minutes. - Please. [[11:07:47]] Member of Parliament Karl Oellinger(Green): Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! After the incense has remarried and the praises and praises of Mr Amon are over in black and blue, perhaps a little to the seriousness of the hour, Mr Amon. I am not satisfied with this ASVG-Novelle, and that concerns not only the area of health, where I very much want to appreciate the positive approaches, but also and above all what is not included in the ASVG-Novelle. You said half a year ago: Yes, we can imagine an extension with the long-term insured! I still have it in my ear – you forgot. Why don't you say that on the initiative of the ÖVP and with the SPÖ's cut-offs, this ASVG-Novelle was disposed of again? I am not satisfied, Mr Amon, although I agree with the principle that they are being increased degressively, that smaller pensions are raised more than high pensions. We agreed, but in the “small print”, Mr. Amon, it is then noted that the very small pensions – these are the women’s pensions, which amount to €500 or €600 – are only increased by 1.7 percent. And you're saying that's progress?- Oh, my God! This is a grey one, Mr Amon. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I really think it is an irresponsible and unforgivable step back, Federal Minister, that you – and that is really what you are talking about now, Federal Minister Buchinger! – in conjunction with ÖVP and SPÖ’s senior pension organisations, it appears that only a scheme is introduced in the case of normal pensioners. But if one has a too low pension, a private pension of €400 or €500 – and you know who that is; that's usually the women – then only 1.7 percent is raised? I bring you an example – and then tell me if that's fair, if that's what you wanted with this pension increase! –: The woman has a pen- sion of 414 € received, the man a pension of 709 €, both are below the compensatory allowance rate. Because they are thus below the compensatory allowance rate – each of them, together they are above the compensatory allowance rate for couples – the pension is increased by only 1.7 percent, while the pension for compensation recipients, if they are couples, is increased by 2.9 percent. Explain this to anyone! Explain this above all to those concerned! It can't be that no one's calling from you from the people who are now asking: What about my pension? I haven't read this yet! What about my 412-€-pension? Why is it not increased by 2.9% or by 2%? I didn't read about it! Is it true that this is only increased by 1.7 percent? Yes, you forgot! Mr Blecha and Mr Khol and Mr Buchinger said: It's so hard to handle with the little pensions! There are so many intergovernmental pensions and what do I remember, we cannot take this into account, unfortunately! Sorry, little pensioners, bad luck! So Looks Your exemplary pension increase? It can't be, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But I do not want to say, Minister of State, that the rest of the increase in pensions is wrong from our point of view. No, we think the principle is right! Yeah, that's what we're talking about. A degressive pension increase, just as it happened this time, but also one that, with the exception of the very low pension rates, goes some way off the inflation rate, that is good, but that you forget the low pensions, the very small pensions, the women's pensions and only with your shoulder, that's unforgivable! Second point: Long-term insurance scheme. – It's still missing, as I mentioned. Mr Federal Minister, it will be a problem for you very slowly that you say: I would have liked to have done it anyway, but the coalition partner won't let me! Mr. Federal Minister, I would have expected you not only to be with the long-term insured, but also – and there Mr. Amon, even if his criticism comes from behind, was right – in the question of “care” a little more commitment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would have expected a little more commitment, Mr Federal Minister, in the sense that you are not just concerned with the 24-hour care, but that you as the Social Minister are saying: There is a challenge to society, we finally need to secure care as a social risk! We must put a plan on our feet, which will also cover the care risk for the future! And after we have not succeeded in securing this in the present, because the money is essentially missing for it, we now need money with which we can finance it in the future! Mr Federal Minister, it is not enough for me to say, as a responsible person, that: I can't help it, I like doing it anyway, but the others don't let me! This is the SPÖ's standard answer! Mr. Cap is making himself up and he says: I would like to discuss the Constitution with the opposition anyway, but the coalition partner does not let me! - I can't do that! Mr Federal Minister, we will also take you into account in the matter of care, then when it comes not only to saying that we are happy to do so, but We also want to say. Our support, Minister of State, you have, you can count on it! – But that’s not how it is! Now I come to the very last point on health. Mrs Federal Minister, in addition to the fact that we have had various amendments, but also substantial parts, just before this plenary session and before the Committee, we do not accept what you offer in the field of health. We expect a powerful but also a social health system – but not a health system that is starved and bleeding out! At first, I don't care how high the cash is in the deficit. But if I have to read that in four years, the cash registers have to pay € 130 million to the banks at credit rates, because they have too little money, I have to say: That's where you failed, Mrs. Federal Minister, or politics. Now I know you're not in office for four years, but we're not just talking about the past few years. A policy where you say 100 million € will receive the cash registers, knowing that this will not be enough, a policy that insists that the cash registers will continue to reduce benefits, that there will be cross pain and that the credit interest will have to be paid by the cash offices with the 130 million €, with which one could well and gladly correct the cross pains we do not accept, Mrs Federal Minister! Mrs Bundesminister, that is clear: We expect more from you and a clear commitment to the issue of “performance and social health”!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15208	Mrs Rosenkranz is now speaking. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[11:16:23]] Mr Barbara Rosenkranz(FPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! We are just in front of the pleite, the head of the Vienna health insurance company has just said. It has joined the head of the Lower Austrian health insurance fund in this statement and has complained about massive payment problems. We experience this regularly. In fact, health systems are hard to deal with. The response to this is always the same: On the one hand, we are discussing an increase in contributions, and at times it will be decided again, as it is today, on the other hand – this is not yet the case, but it will certainly be on the agenda sometime in the near future – to increase self-sufficiency or, in view of the situation, to reduce benefits to the socially weaker population, since there are now many people in our country who find it difficult to meet their basic needs. If it is said again and again that the EU has brought us a great economic upturn, I must say: Yeah, but who? If you look at the extent to which the share of wages in income in Austria has fallen, you can say: Many people in this country are now struggling to finance their own welfare! And precisely against this background, the events in health care are to be taken very seriously. You propose an increase in the contributions again today, and you will do the same. What you do not do and never want to do, however, is an analysis of why the situation is so tense. You probably don't do that, because you couldn't admit what would prove to be a political one. But we want to break this taboo. We are breaking it, especially in the interests of the Austrians, who must live at the lower end of the social hierarchy. We do so, even though we may then draw from your ranks the accusation of racism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This enormous tension in health care is, of course, a result of the completely uncontrolled and inexorable immigration of the last one and a half decades. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] You, ladies and gentlemen, have recently admitted this to the economic wing. Frattini has already told you two days before you also confirmed it, stating that it must change that only 15 percent of immigrants in Europe would have the skills they would qualify for the European labour market. In reverse, this means: 85 percent migrate directly to the social state. And that can't stand a social state! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The excessive use by immigrants goes to abuse; you know that, of course. If we are addressed as politicians, then not rarely so – I quote; and people will probably have been with you too –: I've chosen this or that so far, but now it's enough, because if I look at it, I have to say: I have to pay for everything and everyone a prescription fee, I don't get the cure approved anymore, but then I read in the paper that asylum seekers can ride on a cure, then I see in the ordinations what is happening there! - Quote. Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition, you need to know, but you don't have the courage because you know that you will then be attacked, you don't have the courage to break this taboo in favor of our poorer countrymen. - We do it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Apart from that, you do not have the political will to do so because it leads to your argumentation ad absurdum. They have always justified immigration by the fact that, due to the low birth rate, we urgently need a move to support our social and health systems. We say a time and again, in harmony with many scientists and above all with the impression of daily experience and in harmony with the house mind: The opposite is true! The social state is not supported by immigration, but it is destroyed by it! You need to make the decision sometime. They want to: Immigration or social state? We have made this decision very clear for ourselves. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are pressing around this decision, because how else can it be explained that in the last health committee in the debate on attempts to prevent the abuse of the so-called e-card by applying a photo to it, strange statements have been made. On the one hand, it was said by the SPÖ that the abuse was not bad at all, it actually did not take place, and on the other hand, the ÖVP made the statement, pointing out that it was proven elsewhere, in a neighbouring country, which I will immediately speak of: The foreigners with us are not, because there is a language barrier to it! – A very strange argument, I think. Our health spokesman Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein has told you the following: After an investigation by the Bayerische Hausmedizteverband, health care in the Federal Republic of Germany creates a minimum of one billion euros annually by means of chip card fraud. For example, a high number of similar drug regulations are considered as an indication of an abuse – that will then be sent immediately; you also know, that also tells you the health care workers, that also the doctors tell you, not only the citizens tell you their stories, that tell you also those who need to know and know it, and you also know it – as well as the claim of more than seven doctors or three domestic doctors in the quarter. This sum is calculated exclusively from the pharmaceutical regulations. The honors aren't there. You just ignored that! They have refused to approach this idea, and still claim that it would not be so in Austria. Can I tell you something? – Wiener Neustadt has an alien share of 12 percent, not a Muslim population, but in general, and yet they are – this is what you can see in the argument when it was said that you need a Muslim prayer room – 30 percent of patients in Vienna Neustadt Hospital patients with Muslim faith. So you'll see about the relationship or the impression that the citizen has, and that's right. You don't want an overview, you refuse to even determine the cost-truth. I therefore make the following request again and again: [[Quoted print version removed]] Before you think of further increases before you think of further restrictions or a sluggish level loss of the public services of Austrian health care, which goes at the expense of our poor countrymen, pick up and finally stand up to the fact! Let at least that cost-truth is given, and determine what is really happening there! Let's talk about it! Let us, above all, discuss that it is our task to protect our own citizens, and above all our socially weak and poorer citizens, and these are often also the older country people, and to protect them from the fact that this is given to them by others!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15362	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15445	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 8 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[11:24:38]] Member of the Commission. Peter Westenthaler (BZÖ): Madam President. Dear Prime Minister! [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we are holding today a debate on pensions in this House, and I would also like to mention the following: A letter was written by the Federal Chancellor to all pensioners. But it is also interesting: He is not here today in this important debate, because he mostly avoids Parliament in important debates – but he writes letters! This reminds me of the 7th. In December 1995, the pensioners also received a letter from the then Federal Chancellor Dr. Franz Vranitzky, who was similar to the present one, with a lot of promises, just before Christmas. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The result was: 13 months after this letter, Vranitzky resigned. – No good omen for a German chancellor, who now also writes letters again! But also these letters are once again pure propaganda and false information. [[New calls to the SPÖ.]] We have an average pension adjustment of 2%, Mrs Csörgits; it is always claimed that it is much more than the inflation rate. One day after notification of the amount of the pension increase, the inflation rate for this month has been announced at 2.8 percent. All experts predict a minimum inflation rate of 2.5 percent for the next year, if not even 2.7 percent – but on average, you increase pensions by 2 percent! What does that tell us after Adam Ries? – Pensioners will lose real money, they will have less money at their disposal. And that's not social warmth, as you always say, but it's a downfall, it's a disadvantage for Austrian pensioners! – And that is what we criticize, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the minimum pension there is a plus of 2.9 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] It's not a famous leaf! I tell you, colleague, what was when we were in the government. You know what? [[Abg. Krainer: Overcompensation!]] In 2006, there was an increase in minimum pensions by 4.1 percent, and in 2007 – and that, Mrs. Csörgits, was not your government, that was still our government – there was an increase in minimum pensions by 5.2 percent. These were benefits for the minimum pensioners! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But not 2.9 percent as you do now! Not even half of what we have decided to raise pensions. A 75-year-old pensioner came to me yesterday and showed me her monthly bills. She receives a pension of € 798, the pension increase already charged. Do you know what this pensioner remains after deduction of all fixed costs for life? - Complete 48 €! No longer do you remain – even after your “violent” and so “county” pension increase! – and this is actually a shame! Therefore, this letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic is also a shame, a community, a ugliness to the pensioners, for he does not correspond to the truth. And that's why we criticize him so vehemently! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] They were pulled over the table, it's called. Now I do not yet produce the pensioner price index, which you often quoted when you were in the opposition, and it is not 2.8 percent and not 2.0 percent, but over 3 percent, when you use the shopping cart for the pensioners. So this is not a fair increase in pension! It could have been much better, yes, because we live in an economically good situation. But it is also about discussing pension systems of the future, and I do not understand, Minister Buchinger, that you do not have the mumm to think about how to reform pension systems in a sustainable way. We have given you a start of thinking, an approach that I consider interesting: that not every year about the retirement age – up, down, righteous, unfair, legal retirement age or not – is discussed, but about the question: Why don't we release people to freedom? People should decide for themselves at what age they want to retire. And it's perfectly clear: If you go earlier, you get less pension, and if you go later, you get more pension. Let us let people decide this in their independence, in their self-determination! Let's set up a pension account, where everyone can look at their pension account, look at the interest rate, and see what they will get at the age of pension! That's a fair measure! This is a future model, Minister Buchinger! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do not refuse to discuss a long-needed pension reform! Because all the experts say that the present system of payments, the current form of the payment system is condemned to fail and that it can no longer continue. [[Abg. Oils: Aha, therefore the wind blows!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we also need social warmth, which was the key to social democracy when it occurred. Today the social cold blows through the house – and also through the living rooms of the people! [[Abg. Oils: What is the temperature in the discos: hot or cold?]] This is so due to the real reduction in pensions, but also due to the increase in health insurance contributions. They also burden people with health insurance contributions! Do you know what the bad thing about it is? – That this is of no use at all, because people are paying more and more, and every day they have to hear that the red and black officials are pleading in the health insurances. Vienna pleaded, Lower Austria pleaded – all with severe deficits! The whole health insurance system is waving – which is clear anyway, because there are red and black artists everywhere, who are making this cash register system more and more waving. That is why we demand that the delivery of health insurance funds be disclosed. Everyone should get an insight into what's going so bad there. People have to pay more and more for it, but the health insurance companies are increasingly pleading. And then the EU comes – continuing the debate – and says: In the future, all people will be able to benefit from health care in each country, at the expense of the home country. The “Kronen Zeitung” wrote: ‘Austria before expensive patient tourism’. - That's right. This means that in future, for example, Romanians, Bulgarians, Poland will come to Austria to benefit from health care, but only pay the price of their home country. Do you know who's paying the rest? – The insured, the taxpayers, the Austrian citizens! And this will bring the health insurance system to a final collapse. We therefore warn against it and do not want it. Ladies and gentlemen! We propose today to use the EU net contributions and return to people for the cost compensation. There are price increases everywhere: food, rent and living costs. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Whether cost of medication, food, rent, energy: Everything's getting more expensive! Instead of always paying the money blindly into the European Union, take the money for the people in this country who need it! Make every household available up to €3 000 of household income per month €200! That would be a right measure to end this insanity of price increases. Another point, Mr Cap: Fees become more expensive, we can no longer afford heating costs in this country. The poverty conference has said that 250 000 people can no longer be hot. That's an alarm signal! I am very excited, Mr Cap, whether it will allow the SPÖ to increase the fees for Austrian broadcasting, because that would really make the barrel overflow. The fact that the fees for all households which have only been increased two years ago are now to be increased is not possible. We will ensure that there is no further increase in fees. There we are also the lawyer of the fee payers in any field – whether that is the health insurance, whether that is the health sector, whether that is the social sector, the heating costs or pensions. [[Abg. Riepl: Who was in the government two years ago?]] We will also represent those who are not willing to make a higher contribution to Austrian broadcasting.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15619	The just from Mr. Klubobmann Ing. The motion for a resolution adopted by Westenthaler is accordingly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15693	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky is speaking. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please. [[11:33:00]] Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth Dr. Andrea KdolskyDear Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Values Advisors! A new agreement was also negotiated in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act on the organisation and financing of Austrian healthcare for the years 2008 to 2013. With the conclusion of this agreement, we continue very consistently the reform path of health care in Austria. In concrete terms, this means integrated planning, management and financing in the health care sector; this is also to be fulfilled with life. Let me say a sentence: As a Minister of Health, but also as a doctor, I am very proud that in Austria we do not look for origin, for finances and for old age and that we accept that everyone in his agony, in his pain and in his illness is equal and treated equally. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] The Austrian Health Structure Plan will be further developed and will serve as a framework for health care in the future. In this new agreement, we focused mainly on the planning of the outpatient sector. It was a very important concern to anchor cross-sectoral financing in this Article-15a agreement. Finally, we have made another major step forward in terms of overall funding in the health sector. The increased relief of the acute area, the stationary acute area and the increased introduction and delivery of services in day-to-day and outpatient areas is a clear objective of this health reform, which began in 2005 and is being continued with major steps. In order to strengthen this ambulatory area, it was agreed that models for a needs-oriented external supply should also be designed. The Federal Government and the Länder have agreed to set up a working group consisting of experts from the Federal Government, the Länder, the Social Insurance and Representatives of the Medical Chamber and the Federal Economic Chamber. By 2009, models will be developed and presented in this direction. The further development of the reform pool, an essential part of the health reform, has been important to us. In particular, disease management programmes are to be promoted. I should like to point out that it seems particularly relevant to mention patients with diabetes and stroke, but also patients with coronary heart disease and nephrological diseases and to continue to develop specifically in the medical sciences. One of the major concerns is quality work. This summer the Federal Institute for Quality in Health was founded. In the Article-15a Agreement, the Parties agreed that the Quality Institute should have very important activities in the development, development of standards, Guidelines for structural, process and result quality are to be launched. A focus will also be placed on quality reporting. One of the key topics for the future is the Electronic Health Act. I think that after a positive decision in the Federal Health Commission at the beginning of this year, the contracting parties could now agree on the further development of the electronic health acts as part of the Article-15a agreement. Furthermore, this agreement also guarantees the financing of hospitals. This is an essential factor in ensuring the supply of Austrians. Not only has the funding been carried on, but 100 million € per year have been made available for this hospital financing. This will also make substantial payments by the Federal Government for the hospitals in the coming years to ensure the efficiency and financial viability of the Austrian hospitals in the future. This novel package – and it is very important for me to mention this here – also includes essential measures in the area of legal social security under the Government Convention. Social policy concerns are to be implemented here, particularly in the area of the discharge of pensioners. Our special commitment here was to the chronically ill by introducing a ceiling for the recipe fee with 2 per cent of the net income. These should be particularly relieved by means of a directive empowerment to the main association. This new prescription fee cover, which will be introduced in addition to the existing exemptions, will benefit approximately 300,000 people according to forecasts by the main association, mostly pensioners and chronically ill patients. The projected under-incomes from this socially significant measure will be compensated for by the same lifting rates in pensioners' health insurance against the individual health insurance companies in relation to their loss of revenue due to the prescription fee cover. However, the novelle also contains an increase of 0.15 percentage points in the contribution rates in health insurance for the delivery of the local health telephone. If one considers that the new recipe fee cover represents an annual saving of up to €160 in the amount of the prescription fee of €21 per year from the contribution increase, one can rightly speak of a moderate contribution increase. However, for the local health phone, it means an increase of approximately €160 million from 2008. Therefore, in addition to extending the cover of administrative costs, this package requires a corresponding increase in efficiency on the part of statutory health insurance. So: In addition to this cover-up of administrative costs, appropriate efficiency packages are also required to show that we are not only burdening citizens, but that they are also to be implemented by the responsible efficiency and efficiency improvements. We owe this to the insured in Austria. A particular concern – this has already been addressed here today – is that free staff in the future are better financially secured by creating a right to sickness and weekly benefits and are equal to the real employees. In line with an agreement at social level, free workers will receive sickness benefits in the future from the fourth day of incapacity for work. This helps some 27,000 free servants. In the case of weekly benefits, a widest alignment shall be made with the actual employees. I would point out that this concerns about 500 women each year. I think that, in the end, we have put forward a clear procedure on today's motion for a resolution to reduce the cost increase in the medicinal products sector, based on the cooperation and cooperation of the government parties. It is important to me that constructive negotiations be conducted first between the main association and the pharmaceutical industry before discounts are imposed on the authorities. All these points are about target-oriented solutions in the sense of the Austrian patients. And as you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we are here with a very comprehensive package of novels on the right track, although they are first steps and we must certainly make further considerations, especially with regard to the financing of our health system. But: Such topics should not be started under emotional pressure, but must be implemented in the short, medium and long term. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15800	The speaking time in the next round of speakers will be 7 minutes each. Mrs Oberhauser has now come to speak. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[11:43:16]] Member of Parliament Dr Sabine Oberhauser(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to the Minister for Health for the emotionless list of the benefits created with this ASVG-Novelle, especially for patients. It thus excellently counter-carves the polemic memory gaps from the FPÖ and the BZÖ, which have obviously really forgotten that the loads to which the local health phone was exposed in recent years were not least made possible by the silent tolerance by the small government partner FPÖ/BZÖ – in alternating succession –. If we read the Court of Auditors' report carefully, we can see that it was a large part of the government that brought the health insurance companies into this precarious situation, where we are now called upon to take them out of this situation with serious measures. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I believe that with this Article 15a agreement and the resulting ASVG-Novelle, we have contributed a significant step towards the consolidation of funding in health care. [[Abg. Oillinger: You said something else in the committee!]] For example, there is more money for the hospitals, more money for social security – and more solidly spent money on social security – and no less than under the last government, in which BZÖ and FPÖ were also represented, which today blamed us in a very polemic way, we would burden the little ones with self-holding. – No, no, in this government, the way goes away from the system of self-reservation, as Mrs Minister has already suggested. The milestone is the two-percent cover for the recipe fees with an annual and monthly limit, that is, from more private and again to solidarity financing with a clear protection of especially older and chronically ill people in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is the expenditure, but it is also the revenue that the health insurance companies have brought into this precarious situation. There are still many tasks on the expenditure side that we have to do. A point which is not to be neglected in expenditure is now the significantly rising cost of cure. Unfortunately, it has not succeeded in getting from the Ministry a consensual proposal to cover and dampen the cost of medicinal products, but nevertheless, as the Minister has already said, because of the really good cooperation between the two clubs, ÖVP and SPÖ, we have succeeded in formulating a motion for a resolution in the negotiations, which I can also say: [[Abg. Oillinger: This is also new!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] As the Minister has already said, the way is in the right direction. We will look at what the negotiations with the pharmaceutical industry bring. She's got the rod of a threatening order in the window. And in view of the crisis ahead, she will probably also know how to deal with this rod. Nevertheless, we still lack some measures in the field of medicinal products, which we are still waiting for from the Ministry. This is, for example, the question of greater transparency in the so-called application observations in the government programme. There is still a lot of money missing from social insurance. We expect the Minister to present proposals on this subject in the near future. I do not entirely agree with the restructuring of health care in the field of outpatient care. Madam Minister, you yourself said in the committee that we unfortunately made only half a step forward instead of two steps. The Article 15a agreement provided for the creation of new structures in the field of outpatient care for patients, the so-called outpatient care centres. Because of one, I would say now carefully, not exactly optimal communication structure with all concerned then came the corresponding reactions from the doctor's chamber. A – from my point of view, too – strike threat has a possible speed From all the considerations that would have affected outpatient care centres. As I said, there will be a working group. I hope that this will not be disposed of in a working group, but that we will continue to do so in principle. We still have a long way ahead of us to improve the financial situation of health insurance companies. It will require efforts by federal government, countries, social insurance, pharmaceutical industry, doctors and pharmacists, and it will also require good cooperation between the two clubs. Let me maybe end with a picture: I compare the two coalition partners with two dancers who were forced by an order to dance a pass des deux. Because of sometimes not quite conformer Directional instructions of some directors have come to mean that we have often acted bloody in advance of the toes. Last but not least, the negotiations on this motion for a resolution have shown that at least the dancers have now come to believe that the time of the bloody toes should be over and that we should try to continue together – perhaps also sometimes against the direction of choreographers – for the people in Austria in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15898	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e15952	The next item is the speech by Mr Rasinger. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[11:50:03]] Member Dr. Erwin Rasinger(ÖVP): Madam President. Appreciate members on the government bank! We have heard from the previous speakers today how bad and how expensive everything is. – I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that: I'm a settled doctor, I've been doing this for 25 years, and I really can't understand it if you think the foreigners are supposed to be guilty of the deficit or the minus that the health insurance companies now have. I think that as a health politician, one should maintain a line clearly – as the Minister of Health has said: Sick people are sufferers, sick people are people who need help, and sick people should not be seen only in terms of costs. [[Congratulations on ÖVP, SPÖ and Greens.]] – That starts, I must tell you, with foreigners and stops with the so-called “tearly sick” at the end of life. I would like exactly the opposite: I want us to live the government programme, in which I have also contributed by getting the top level of medicine for patients, regardless of their age or income. That does sound natural, but it is not at all when you look at Europe! If you look around in Europe, you can see that every summer hundreds of Austrians flee from Portugal, Spain and so on with the medical aviation ambulance from the other so-called highly developed countries. Why did they flee? – Because they know exactly – the comparison makes them sure! – that in Austria provision is guaranteed at the highest level. We do, and we want to afford it. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Life expectancy has increased by an average of three years over the last ten years: Women on average live 81 years, men 76 years. And these were not bad years, because they were extra years of complaint-free! For example, we operate in the year 50,000 patients in grey star – as many people as St. Pölten have residents are operated on the eyes each year! Although they no longer live because of this, people can better participate in life, the quality of life increases. 18 000 people a year have hip prosthesis operations. And I'll tell you one thing: Neither do these prolong life, but they take the pain and allow it to take a better part in life afterwards. These are values! We also need to talk about values in politics, and good health care has its value. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I've seen the film "Sicko" by American Michael Moore, in which cancer disease sells its home and has to drive 2,000 kilometers to live in the children's garage – all because they're cancer sick! – and I also have to say quite honestly, as a house doctor regarding this most expensive system in the world, which is supposed to be so good, but which does not provide 50 million people: I've done the comparison, I'd rather stay in Austria. We only need to look in front of the doorstep: Germany has itself dealt with huge problems because it is the wrong way. Over the last ten years, the country has reduced the number of hospitals by 25 percent, and it wants to close up another 25 percent or partly relocate. That means – that is to say, quite clearly – that in the former East Germany there is no hospital in the vicinity of 100 kilometers. This means that if you have an emergency, the rescue must go 100 kilometers to pick you up, and then drive 100 kilometers again to get to the hospital. Hundreds of practices are no longer manageable and lost because no one wants to go there, and it is more or less not very much seen when expensive medications are prescribed. Only one fifth of Alzheimer's patients and only one fifth of schizophrenia patients get their medications because doctors are threatened by the regress. I have to tell you, I will do everything I can to ensure that I am not put under financial pressure as a doctor and my doctor's colleagues and then we will have to pass this pressure on to the patients. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we have the highest level of satisfaction across the EU and worldwide, the Minister says we have the world's best system – I'm not so measured, but we're discussing a very high level that we want to maintain and expand – you might ask: Is everything really perfect? – No, of course, not everything is perfect, so we are trying to improve with this article-15a agreement. We want to get away from the reputation of being world champion in Im-Spital-Liegen, yes, we want to do more extramural, yes, we need more planning – we have white spots in Austria, for example, look at the childhood psychiatric! – yes, we want shorter waiting times, yes, we want quality. On the other hand, we are proud that we have such a good supply, and we are grateful that 340 000 health care professionals, including 30,000 doctors, reliably provide good quality. Willi Molterer as Minister of Finance and the countries have now jointly secured the hospitals for six years. There's been plans to lock every third hospital. If we had only followed the economist's bill, then many of Austria's regions today would probably be without hospital and probably the supply would be worse. That is why I am grateful – even as a doctor, who had to take advantage of God’s few benefits – for ensuring the system in the hospital system for our chronically ill, for our elderly for six years now, and I hope that the necessary reforms will follow outside. Let us not be fooled by the word deficit! In my opinion, there can only be a shortage in health care, namely the shortage of humanity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16074	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[11:56:39]] Deputies Dr Kurt Grünewald (Green): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Now we have heard about coalitional dance courses and exercises, but also a lot about utopias like 15a agreements and how the health system should work. Of course you can listen to fairy tales, they may be very nice at the market square of Marrakech, and it's also nice to watch sorcerers, but we don't have a thousand and a night to take off the pink glasses and look at reality. You know – you read newspapers, you read press releases, you talk to directors and board members of health insurance companies – the health insurance companies are going badly, they're going to be miserable. If the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse says that it is not able to pay next year, there is no reason to rub the nose. A few days later, the Lower Austrians say it, then also the Tyroleans, and others say that they will not be able to keep the weakly balanced balance for long. And then your solutions come: As I do not want to exert emotional pressure now, but these approaches are, you apologise, such an intellectual mailer, if I increase the contributions by 0.15 percent and expect me of it €150 million for the cash registers – that's not even 40 percent of their total deficits! Of these 150 million, 50 million are lost as a contribution to the countries – according to Article 15a agreement – 33 percent, and another 60 million are missing from the cash registers, about the cover of the recipe fees. They say that this will somehow be paid to them, but I have not heard any concrete answers to our requests, no concrete figures or a balance under them. – But the big buried fat dog is still coming! Of the 150 million, significantly less than half remain, all the experts I have talked to say. But then it says that by June 2008 the cash registers have made it clear that they also save €150 million! That means it doesn't stay from the Plus any more, it goes on into the minus! We asked the Committee: How do you imagine that? – I don’t want to repeat the answer, but that wasn’t one. That wasn't an answer! Mr Rasinger mentioned that there are white spots on the map of supply. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, spoke about it – and this is true too – that there are over-supplyed and under-supplyed parts. But that's what it's like in the 1st century. District around the AKH gives a high professional density, I also know. Only because we reduce these, the cash-in deficits will not disappear, which is at most a small contribution. But you know, because I told you that there are 0.45 child psychiatrists on 250 000 inhabitants. That's scandalous! It's a sub-service! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Ing. Hofer.]] You know that in the field of neuro-rehabilitation, after strokes and skull brain injuries, at least one third of patients need more treatment places in rehabilitation. So how are the health insurance companies to finance this? You know that since 1994 there has been a right to psychotherapy on a health certificate – that is more than ten years ago! Psychiatrically ill people are massively discriminated against each patient with a rupture or cut injury because they pay for the therapy themselves. You can save! – They make proposals in the pharmaceutical sector: Well, medications account for about 17 percent of the total health costs, but I still don't quite understand. The ÖVP is an economic party?! – Mr Dr. Gleiters- and all the others sit in the main association and listen as the state says: I watch the crash of the health insurance companies and do not do much, but they should now dictate to the pharmaceutical industry what prices it has to demand. – I even understand Dr. Dorner when he speaks of State Communism, and Mr. Dr. Dorner I have never understood! So that's very strange! And above all, it is the small, innovative companies of young researchers who can no longer stand this price dumping. Another comment: They have forgotten that the pharmaceutical industry is paying a multimillion-height contribution to a kind of solidarity fund. Some companies have turned out, and now they're going to process. Not even that's in the clean! – That would be like a Minister of Agriculture saying, if agriculture is not going well: Tractors and mowers cost half the price, then we'll get it. – It can't be! “My name is Hase and I don’t know about anything,” is not a recovery policy for the health insurance companies! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Oellinger will later make a request by me concerning a sustainable concept of rehabilitation and also his request for low pensions – how to correct a few more. I would like to stress that this is happening to people! No savings can be made in the health system by a hospital director abandoning a hot tub – he has none, believe me! – but there must be a reduction in performance at a time when certain benefits are no longer paid at all. This reduction has occurred in the field of physiotherapy: Lack of oxygen after birth of cerebral children were previously paid three hours of therapy – physiotherapy, Bobath therapy. Half now pay the family, massively burdened families. And when I hear “make interfaces to seam ”! This is an euphemism of the same kind! – Do you know that people who have their parents in a home have to pay €2,000 less the care costs – less the care costs!Unknown term type: "%s".? Do you know that this separation between health and social systems in the field of care is absurd in itself that this reform pool in the Article 15a agreements has not even been used out financially, because there are hardly any projects yet? - That's an evaluation! Much of the 15a agreements would be good if the whole thing in the negotiations were not as soft as a punch scratcher, I can only say. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I've talked to the countries, and they're just saying, No, we signed it! No, we're not! – Find a solution, that would be a chance! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16205	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[12:04:15]] Member Herbert Kickl (FPÖ): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! “Just like a punch-powder,” you too were about a year ago, when there was a special meeting requested by the FPÖ here in which we accepted the pension problem, because we know that this is a whole, completely burning problem, and because there have been many years of absences here, which are basically to be bathed out by a group that is mostly one of the poorest of the poor in this society. At the time, we made a request to increase our pension to 2.6%, and this request has been rejected by you all – red, black, green and orange. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have thus made pensioners the first victim of this government constellation, and in fact – I do not want to say now that there are no improvements, but in essential areas that cannot be neglected – it is going on. You have missed a year, you have missed out on opportunities, and you continue to leave out opportunities. This is not an abstract discussion that we are having here, because while the speaking time is running in a minute's time for our Members, the debt controller of the health insurance companies is also running. One has to look at this huge debt hole that we have only once on the example of the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse: It's 103 € per minute – that doesn't look like too much yet –, it's 6 210 € per hour finish, it's 150 000 € per day finish, and we have 544 million € outdoor stands. There you can only congratulate! Ladies and gentlemen! What we're talking about here is one out of nine and one out of 23 social security funds. – There you can imagine what will happen to us in the future. Instead of thinking about how to finally reform this system at the head and the limbs, how to carry on something, go here and act by means of a large-coalitioned wax dance, which you daily carry on via the media on and now also on a letter level, literary: One writes a letter to the teachers, because he suddenly discovers his love for the education system that has been downgraded, the other writes a letter to the pensioners who are calling for self-righteousness, where when you read it, one is actually going out of the vocabulary, but one could still call it unappetising what is being done there. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Well, well!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have a fine example, the red-ruled Vienna, by which one has an experimental balloon, by which one sees how far it brings the SPÖ with its concepts for social justice. In this Vienna, many people live, many of them pensioners, who can no longer afford the electricity and gas for light and heating, because the prices are so high and because we have a tohuwabohu and a healing chaos, for example, in the area of heating costs and because you do not manage to make a federal uniform arrangement. But perhaps it is true that some of these pensioners in the evening, when they sit at the candle in the apartment, will be very warm when they read the letter from Mr. Gusenbauer. And perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, one person or the other not only gets warm about the heart, but perhaps he gets hot with anger when he hears that only these are completely superfluous and basically taken, I can't say otherwise, unappropriate PR action by SPÖ chairman has devoured 200 000 €. Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at this pension increase in detail, you see, there are details that are not details: It is a very horrific thing – it has already been mentioned – that one has forgotten an essential group of people. The term “small print ” has previously fallen. One has forgotten some, and these are not small things, because it has dramatic consequences, because it hits once again the poorest of the poor! These are those who have made their contribution to achieving the prosperity that exists in Austria and whose glory you always boast, but who regularly come to the wheels in the distribution of this prosperity. This is no different for you and this time too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are just the lowest pensioners mentioned, those whose pension is below the compensatory allowance rate, the poorest of the poor whom you – and that must be a socialist logic – grant an increase of 1.7 percent. That is, you increase the pension of the poorest of the poor just as you have raised the highest pensions. – You probably only understand that. And if you listen to the woman's minister when she says that the winners of this retirement pension are women, you can only ask yourself: Is it not aware of this fact, or does it deliberately say something that is not true? – Because we are not talking about a small group of people, ladies and gentlemen! These are not a few hundred we are talking about, but they are about 500 000 people, mostly women, who are now being discriminated against for the spouse to earn something. – That can’t be it, and that shows how serious it is for the SPÖ to talk about equality! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. That's how it is!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, in fact we would have expected you to start down below when it comes to creating social justice. That would be normal access – and so you have announced it. However, you have missed this opportunity because, if you interpret it positively, you may have forgotten that, but we can do this today. In any case, I have not given up the hope that there is something like a spark of rest-confidence in you, even in connection with these lowest-pensionists. That's why we want to try to revive this hope and, so to speak, get something out of you. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request and hope that we will also receive your agreement: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I assume that the Greens too will agree to this, and then today it would have been shown that it is better to apply social justice than just to put it on paper. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[12:11]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: Mrs Haubner's next speech. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[12:11:54]] Ursula Haubner (BZÖ): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! The matter we have today is certainly one of the most important things at all, because it concerns each one of us, since it is about the maintenance and financing of our good health system and, on the other hand, the adjustment of the value of pensions. On the one hand, it is to be welcomed that the health reform launched in 2005 will be rewritten within the framework of the organisation and funding. In this Article-15a agreement there are also some proven structural improvement, it is a clear signal towards national health funds, health platforms – and above all also the will to expand local medical care in the established area, especially in rural areas. On the other hand, this Article 15a agreement does not give a clear answer to the deficient situation of the local health telephone. It is not all the local health telephone deficitary, but only a few, which also includes the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. We know that, of course, Vienna has a different supply needs compared to more rural structures, but this must not be overlooked, ladies and gentlemen, that services are paid differently in Vienna. For example, the Wiener Gebietskrankenkasse – on which the raw report of the Court of Auditors provides information – spends € 106 per insured person more for medical assistance and €71 more on medications and cures than, for example, the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse. As a reason, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse pays the doctors significantly higher fees. In 2006, for example, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse recorded a loss of € 71.2 million; the Oberösterreichisches Landeskrankenkasse, on the other hand, made a profit of € 15 million. [[Abg. Oillinger: ‘winning’ related to health insurance...?]] So you have to get the impression that in certain cash registers – I have mentioned the example of the red-ruled Vienna – self-management is confused with self-gloriousness and self-service, when we are making comparisons with other federal states. At any rate, I am convinced that the Upper Austrians have no poorer quality of care and life than the Viennans. Therefore, Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, I ask you: Take advantage of your political scope so that at last uniform criteria of treatment economy can be implemented! Use your political scope and opportunities to ensure that there is a 100% uniform range of services in terms of equal treatment and not a reduction in performance! Mrs Federal Minister, use your political margin to implement a uniform fee catalogue for achievements! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As long as there are double findings and as long as hospital reforms are not implemented in such a way that they actually benefit people, I would like to repeat the example of Upper Austria, where there are regional supply associations, instead of the competition between doctors and hospital holders, something that has proved to be very good, as long as all this is not implemented, it is simply not appropriate to ask people to continue to check out and tell them: You have to pay more health insurance contributions because the health insurance funds are deficient! In this context, people are disappearing again, because we all know very well that with these 0.15 percent in addition to contributions, the cash registers are not rehabilitated, but a maximum of € 100 million is left and with which the amount cannot be found. Further point: the recipe fee cover. We find this positive in principle and welcome it when it comes to a noticeable relief for chronically ill people – among them are mostly elderly people. But I'm also wondering: Why choose an administrative and bureaucratic model for the billing? This billing of the recipe fee cover costs € 2 million. And that's where I'm asking you: Why didn't you take up the proposal from other cash offices that said: People who need high medications should pay a certain “yearly quota ” for it regardless of their income, and from a certain point of view, the prescription fee will fall away! – I think that would be transparent, that would be cost-neutral and also comprehensible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The third point concerns the older generation for which we have great responsibility so that it has a safe and adequate pension in the future. The fact that pensions have been secured has shown the previous government, also with the three times extra-tourist increase in the compensatory allowance rate. I also believe that pensioners, also due to the good economic situation, deserve an extraordinary increase. And that's why our demand was: 3-percent increase for pensioners, because they just deserved it. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, the forthcoming increase in pensions is really no reason to rejoice. And apart from the fact that there are four different adaptation modes in this system – in this context, even a separate call centre has to be set up, because otherwise people no longer know themselves, but only experts for it – this is a mogel package. The previous speakers have already pointed out: The members of the Smallest Pensions – those are the women in the first place – with only a 1.7 percent increase, can really not be described as the big winners. That's why my last hope is: Voices They are at least prepared to compensate for the high cost of living, which has increased so much in recent weeks and months! Finally, because so much was spoken of here by the Pensionist Letter of the Federal Chancellor, a pensioner's letter, published in a large Austrian daily, from which I can now briefly quote: Of the €36.75 I just stay 20 € after deduction of the taxes, which is about 1.2 percent net – and that with an inflation of 2.9 percent. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] - Quote. I don't know if your letter was such a good idea. I remember once a pensioner's letter was a shot in his own knee. Nothing bad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16476	Next, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Buchinger, will speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[12:19:35]] Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger Dear Madam President! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Federal Government has begun to promote economic development and social development in the same way. We believe that it is important for our country to ensure that economic development, that economic prosperity is granted – through skilled companies, by committed workers and workers – but also to ensure fair and fair distribution of this jointly generated prosperity. In the first months of our government, these objectives could be achieved in an excellent way. Economic growth will be around 3.4 percent this year. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But not because of you!]] Unemployment is falling, youth unemployment is falling particularly strongly, and wages and salaries have for the first time increased to an appropriate extent for years, ranging from 3 to 4 percent. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't do that for it!]] [[further calls to the BZÖ]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is the work of Federal Minister Bartenstein...!]] The reason, ladies and gentlemen, is that in this government both entrepreneurs and workers have confidence – unlike the previous government, which neither entrepreneurs nor other people trusted, and therefore regrettably both economic and social development was bad. [[Interlocutory calls to representatives of the ÖVP]] – In this government, on the other hand, economic and social development, ladies and gentlemen, is appropriate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] When we discuss a fair distribution of wealth, it cannot be that one of the largest population groups in our country, namely 2.1 million pensioners, who over many, many years have contributed significantly to the creation of value and have built up this country, should not benefit from this increased prosperity or, as some experts have tried to predict, we should not benefit from it. – No, it can’t be that! In particular, people who have to contend with small and medium-sized pensions need a fair share of the increased prosperity; for them, that was the target, there is to be an increase in the pension over the inflation rate. That's done, and that's why it's actually a good day for 2.1 million pensioners today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I am also pleased that this increase in pensions has been largely appreciated here in the House. We have received criticism outside the House. There have been experts and experts who have not been afraid to paint “generational conflicts” on the wall, and who have thought about the dictum that this pension adjustment could “not afford” the Republic. – Of course, ladies and gentlemen, this Republic can afford to create prosperity and justly distribute prosperity. We have a good and reliable pension system, which is further improved by some social corrections in this year and also in the future, but the pensions for Austrians are guaranteed in the future, and they are sustainable. For example, in this year alone, the good economic development that we are consciously pushing for, about €500 million that are not needed to compensate for the federal contribution, because revenue is higher than estimated, and expenditure reaches approximately the estimated level. 500 million €, with about 85 million € now being paid to pensioners beyond the inflation rate. The second criticism was that we should have done this with one-off payments. Even a ministerial colleague said after finishing that one-time payments would have been the right thing. – I am not of this opinion, because inflation also increases by 2.1 percent, even by 2.9% in these months. And it does not rise in such a way that next year the bread would be cheaper again because it was a one-time payout, but also this inflation increase is a sustainable one, and therefore also the inflation compensation belongs to the pension increase being made sustainable. Of course, I understand: If you try to criticise the opposition – it is the task of the opposition to practice criticism – on an overall excellent and good package of the pension adjustment, then point out that in pensions below the amount of compensation, the adjustment is made with the inflation rate – and not higher. This is correct from the point of view, but the conclusions, especially the critical ones you draw from it, are incorrect, because the large majority of these pensions below the compensatory allowance rate are partial pensions, where other income components are still available, or there are pension benefits that are paid to abroad because there were the main parts of the activity, so there are also benefits. If, in fact, there are no further income components next to this pension under the compensation allowance, then the compensation allowance can be applied for and then there is an increase of 2.9 percent – and if it is a family, an increase of 2.6 percent. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Further no-run on the Greens.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens and the Liberals, you are wrong with your claim that this would be discriminatory for women, because the rule in the family allowance rate is not such that the male pension will be increased, but that pension will be increased by 2.6 percent, which first happened – and that is because of the different retirement age very, very often the female pension. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, that pension adjustment is fair and fair in this area too. Yes, it is a day of joy for 2.1 million pensioners. And this day of joy the pensioners of Austria had to wait many years, because in recent years the inflation rate has increased by 15 percent, while the average pension rate has only been 8 percent, resulting in a net pension loss of 7 percent! [[Abg. Steibl: This SPÖ propaganda! Incredible!]] Dear Mrs Haubner, as you have argued with this one a pensioner, who now stays 22 € net. They were responsible for a pension increase two years ago, where grossly € 10.30 have remained; net even a minus! – This makes the difference between your pension policy and a social-democratic pension policy, together with our coalition partner from the ÖVP, because what this pension increase is about, there was agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you point out that the last pension adjustment in December 2006 in relation to the compensation allowances has also brought an extraordinary increase of over 5 percent: Yes, that was a good performance, a uniquely good performance, but probably it is not far from being brought up when you see that in connection with that that after the great election success of the 1. It was on October 1st, where social democracy became the strongest group in this House. And afterwards, there has also been a proper adjustment in the field of compensation entitlements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to point out that another important part of the package we are discussing here today in the House is the coverage of the recipe fees: In fact, 2% of net income as a ceiling for prescription fees is a very, very essential social policy milestone, which will benefit in particular pensioners. I was in my home district, Rohrbach, just about a month ago and held a telephone call there during visits to social institutions. [[Call the ÖVP:Only one?]] That's where a pensioner called me and said: Mr Minister, I have a pension, which is not bad, that is €1,000 net; but I know what: I had a heart attack, had two strokes, and I pay 120 to 130 € monthly in prescription fees. Can't you help me? I've really had a pleasure saying to this man: Yes, the government and the Austrian Parliament will help you because from 1. January 2008 will not pay you 120 € per month at prescription fees, but exactly 20 €! – Ladies and gentlemen, you can imagine that this man was happy, and we are all very happy about this progress. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, The esteemed colleague Amon, who is not in the hall right now, has a bit critical – I hope he hears me, otherwise I tell him later – and a little sorry said that the SPÖ and the Social Ministers did not respond to all the wishes of the ÖVP. [[Call the ÖVP: But he hears you!]] – Yes, that is right, we are not doing this by the SPÖ, but we have not been elected to do so either, ladies and gentlemen here in the High House, but we have been elected to represent the interests of the citizens of this country – and we are doing so, and we are showing this with today’s government proposals. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Steibl: We also represent the interests of citizens!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16682	Ladies and gentlemen, this last round with 6 minutes can be achieved perfectly. The next item is the speech by Mr Schopf. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[12:29:10]] Mr Walter Schopf (SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Dear Minister Buchinger! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to say something on this government template, on this novel, in particular regarding the coverage of the two per cent prescription fee, because I believe that this point is of particular importance to many insured persons. This is very important for many workers, especially for many pensioners. We also have a number of people in this country who are unfortunately chronically ill, and for this group of persons, this bill – which I hope will be agreed by us together – is also very important. There are people who, due to their health conditions, because of their health difficulties, are forced to take medication. We have many people who have been forced to do so for years. We have chronic sick people who are unfortunately forced to take drugs for decades. If we know that the recipe fee is currently €4.70 per pack, then it is a big financial problem for these people in particular, and these people have a very heavy burden. Ladies and gentlemen! If you look at the facts and figures, we know together that the average ASVG-pension, including widows and widowers' pensions, is currently around € 850 in Austria. We know that the average ASVG-pension without widower and widower's pension is €960. We know that we have over a million people in this country – these are pensioners – who are pensioners of less than € 1,000. But we also know – and I think it is important to explain that – that we have over 18 000 pensioners who have to pay more than 300 € in prescription fees in the year within Upper Austria, with the insurance companies of the Upper Austrian District Hospital. We have 2 500 people in Upper Austria who have over 500 € per year to pay for the recipe fee. Unfortunately, we have even used many pensioners who currently have 10 percent of their total income, 10 percent and more of their total pension, for the prescription fee, because they are forced to do so because of their health condition. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe – and we are certain on the part of social democracy – that this decision-making is a milestone in social policy. Minister Buchinger, we are grateful for this milestone! It is an important one, a real milestone, and I hope that similar cases will follow. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important for me, with a very concrete example of calculation, to underline this need and to argue again: If someone with a pension of €900 currently pays 10 per cent of the prescription fee – that's well known to be € 90 – this pensioner or this pensioner pays when you change the scheme from 1. January 2008, instead of 90 € only 18 €. This is a savings per month of say and write 72 € and a savings in the year of 864 €. And this, ladies and gentlemen, corresponds to a monthly pension, which this regulation will save in the future, in concrete terms from January 2008 on! Ladies and gentlemen! However, we also need to know that this new regulation will certainly reduce revenue in the field of health insurance, in the field of regional health telephones. In Upper Austria, a reduction of approximately €5 million is expected. I think that this is of course a problem when considering the strained financial situation of the health insurance companies. However, these measures will also lead to a new, additional administrative burden. New additional staff is needed to be able to realize this point. Profile Management: At this point – and I think it is necessary and important to do this here too – I would like to thank the employees for their commitment, for their commitment in the interests of the insured! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If one looks at the costs of the regional health telephone for the administration, we note that it now amounts to less than 4 percent. [[Abg. Donabauer: All health insurance companies, my colleague! All health insurances!]] All health insurances, all right. They are less than 4 percent, which means that more than 96 percent of the contributions in the form of various benefits benefit directly to the insured. That is why this thanks are certainly justified. I would like to conclude by now, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, I would like to ask Mrs Kdolsky and Mr Molterer, Minister of Finance, and at the same time, to ask Parliament to give concrete proposals on what activities we can put in place, that we can relieve the local health telephone, even all health insurance companies in their financial situation in the future. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16761	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Speech time: 6 minutes. - Please. [[12:35:35]] Deputies Mag. Gertrude Auber(ÖVP): Madam President. High house! What we decide here in Parliament today concerns all of us. Older are or will all of us. What do the seniors want? – A fair pension increase. They got them, thanks to the work of the coalition. What do the seniors want? – improvements in the health sector. They got them, thanks to the work of the coalition. What else do the seniors want? – care at home, which you can afford. They haven't gotten them yet. Mr Buchinger's current models are too complicated and expensive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A success for all is, despite all unacknowledged calls, the increase in pensions. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... Molterer must pay more!]] The experts wanted to put only 1.7 percent on it. But, my Ladies and gentlemen, we all feel it: Much more expensive, especially energy, housing, food. This is why the EIA has put a great deal of emphasis on it, and the seniors have agreed with the government on a stronger increase in pensions. I say it again because it is important: In the new year there is an increase of 2.9 percent for the minimum pensioners – an important building block in the fight against poverty! Mean pensions are increased by 2 percent, and this two makes joy. But now there were some critics who thought this would be too much for our pensioners. Too much for those who have spent decades in the system? [[Abg. Parnigoni:... in the ÖVP!]] Too much for those who have rebuilt our country after the war? – No, ladies and gentlemen, this increase in pensions is fair and fair! Does the increase in pensions, including this criticism, reduce the chances of the boys? - Certainly not! On the one hand, this would not allow our grandpas and grandmothers at all, and on the other hand, please consider one: The pensioners in Austria spend most of their money in their own country, so they secure jobs, including jobs of the boys. Thanks to senior representatives Andreas Khol and Karl Blecha, who have been very committed to this pension increase! Ladies and gentlemen, under the rule: This pension increase is fair because the pensioners have earned this charge of price, and it is fair because it preserves the chances of the boys. The pension increase can also be financed – with a result of the government's pension reform Schüssel! It is nice that in Austria it is so well managed that we can afford these pensions. The Ministry of Finance is in good hands with the ÖVP. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what is still important to older people? – That they can be cared for and maintained at home in their own four walls. ==References====External links== The Amnesty Scheme is due to expire on 1 December. Then, Minister, thousands of families, thousands of people who need care are standing there with huge worries – and that three weeks before Christmas! Thousands of people do not know how to afford legal care. They don't know at all whether they'll have to be there alone in January or go to a home immediately. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] The persons concerned do not know themselves in the back and in the front. [[Abg. Strache: Then we finally decide a regulation that the basic supply is secured!]] Under the rule: Four weeks before the expiry of the Amnesty Regulation, there are only signs of question and no practical answers. [[Abg. Brosz: You're talking about the government!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you stop everything!]] But, Minister, the chance is alive! [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you stop everything!]] Let us now decide on the extension of the amnesty! Let's take the concerns from those concerned! [[Abg. Strache: Finally, decide on a solution model!]] Last: I read today in a daily newspaper: ‘Buchinger does not exclude failure’. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's a bad story!]] This is about the models that are offered legally. ‘Buchinger does not exclude failure’. – What does that mean? Don't you believe in your own models, Minister? [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: Because you're talking about everything!]] You want to test the models for half a year now. Test? With 70-, with 80-year-olds? Testing, Mr. Minister? – Many open questions. I'm appealing to you: Let us take the concerns of those concerned, and let us extend the amnesty regime again!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e16951	The next item is Mrs Mandak's speech. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[12:40:58]] Member Sabine Mandak (Green): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Mrs Aubauer, if the Amnesty is to be extended, please ask here and now. We are happy to agree. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have already tabled this request, and you voted against it at the time, Mrs Aubauer. They agreed to the existing law at the time. If someone confuses people in Austria, you are there, too, and not only Mr Buchinger. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister Buchinger! They have said that the prosperity in Austria should be fairly and fairly distributed. I underline this statement. But please explain now why especially those – and I really say “those” because they are mainly women – who receive pensions under this magical €747 receive less pension increase than the others. They claimed: If you're below, you'll get a compensation allowance anyway. - That's not right. If the partner or partner has a pension which is higher, this person will not receive a compensation allowance. You nod agreeing. But why do these people increase their pension by only 1.7 percent? Does not a woman who has worked her five or ten hours because she has provided the family also have a claim to at least 2.9 percent of pension increase, as do all others? – That would be social justice! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Bitch.]] However, we are not only discussing pension issues, but we are also discussing the organisation of health care. If we look at this planned organization, especially through the glasses of old people, then I would like to take out two points. One is the area of rehabilitation. They write in the present proposal that rehabilitation should be extended, especially in the case of young people and children. That's good, but please don't forget to expand the rehabilitation in old people too! Even in old people, she still pays off and benefits from something, not at some point, but immediately after the discharge from the hospital. How often we have severe falls in old people who need to be treated urgently and immediately! For this reason, we also demand from the Greens that there should be a right to rehabilitation, as well as a right to care and care in old age. We need that! People in Austria should not and should not be dependent on the good or bad interaction of two government parties, as is the case at present. They need legal certainty that they have a right to care and support when they grow old when they need it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the moment, it's really a game of mourning, what's going on. It's a political hack, and the bill pays the people concerned. Some of you are involved in this by the ÖVP. The Minister of Economic Affairs cannot do with the Minister of Economic Affairs, he cannot do with the Minister of Finance, and the people concerned know today, four weeks before the end of the regulation of care regulations, not what comes to them. You don't know! Minister! They still say nothing against it or support the interest of assets over €5,000. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: 7 000!]] 7,000 €, excuse me! – If I put the amount to the side today for my funeral costs and perhaps provide for a tooth replacement that will be necessary, or for a hearing aid, then I am above a threshold of € 7 000. Not even that you agree with those concerned, let alone a little inheritance for grandchildren, who can also pass on with God! That's where you want to clear up to the no-go anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is not a social policy, as we imagine it. The last point in the field of health: the health economy. Former hospital redundancies yes, but only if the aftercare is secured. It is not possible for people to be released from the hospital in the past – and I think again very much about old people – to be sent home to an empty apartment and not to know who will care for them afterwards. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] And: Attention! The care allowance in Austria only applies from six months when you need it. If I have had a fall today and need care for two or three months at home, then I have to pay it myself fully, it won't pay me. When you consider that a hospital day costs at least €700, I mean, then these costs must be for the care at home, in the sense of those who are cared for so that people do not simply stand in the rain. This too, in our view, is a necessary measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17034	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 6 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[12:46:58]] Member Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein (FPÖ): Madam President. Minister! Minister! High house! Yes, a year ago, the health insurance companies were just in front of the pleite. Today we are already a step further. If one listens to the speeches of the Members of the Government, one could think that milk and honey flow in our country. That's where Mrs. Csörgits or Mrs. Oberhauser says it's a social milestone. Mr Amon even speaks of a beautiful day for pensioners. Now I don't know what's supposed to be so nice for the pensioners. Today we decide to increase the pension for the miniature pensions – these are pensions of 300 €, 400 € – of 1.7 percent. A very nice day for those concerned, mostly women; really, Mr Amon, I can congratulate you there! But as a challenge they also have to pay increased health insurance contributions, also a very nice day for all pensioners: 0.15% increase in the smallest pensions, that's quite a lot of money for these people! The increases in contributions must now be removed so that the Marode health insurance system can be exceeded in some way for a year again. It's safe, Mrs. Minister: With these revenues that you get out of there, with these revenues that you will manage and which will be far below the 100-million-€ limit, nothing will change in the health insurance companies at all. The health insurance funds are even worse next year, much, much worse and much, much poorer! The whole thing is like this: They now call for increases in the contribution of people in order to be able to finance the benefits for those people who are not insured with us, but who are entitled to benefit. That's the crux, and that's exactly what you're saying here: You stand up, Mrs Minister, and say that you are proud that everyone – I have tried to share it – no matter what origin, and whether you are able to pay or not, gets the same treatment with us. [[Abg. Strache: Basic supply yes, but no extra services! That's the point!]] Mrs Minister, it is very nice that you are proud of it, but who is to finance it? – Finance the small pensioners, they have to carry this, their benefits are permanently reduced, only to be proud that everyone – no matter what origin – is being treated here with us. [[Abg. Street: No special services! It can't be!]] That's unsocial, we can't sign it, and we can't do it with it! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The first health insurance fund to be pleaded is the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse. We've heard it several times today. You said in committee: Well, that's just a management problem. Now I am telling you, Mrs Minister, that there may be a management problem there too. But one thing you know very well: Each agglomeration room in Europe has its own laws, agglomerations have different needs. That's what you know: In agglomeration centres – and in Austria, we only have the one thing – it is precisely the same that the population is aged, that there is higher unemployment, that there is much more social assistance recipients. For this very reason, of course, every agglomeration room is in a certain way and How much more burdened. It is not true that now only the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse is advocating. Look You're looking at the little cash registers, for example, the BVA! She too has a lot worse problems in Vienna than she has in Vorarlberg, for example; she has only the great happiness that she can transform it internally. That's what you're telling the people. They say: It's a management problem. We are not interested in 1.5 million insured Viennans. That's where the country of Vienna is supposed to look as it goes on. And what do we have now? – Now the Lower Austrian local health insurance fund is in place. It's not that good either. I didn't hear that this is a management problem. What problem do you see in Lower Austria? What to do Now you're using the local health phone? – You will now increase your contributions by 0.15 percent on a limited time-limit until June. How it will continue, we will see. The health insurance funds must be saved. If they don't make it, they'll stay right on the track, because then they won't even get more revenue. I'll tell you: The fact that the Vienna regional health insurance fund is so dramaticly bad, but also all the other local healthcare telephones, is not least due to the mass migration carried by you over the last decades. And you can still get so excited now, you can still scream like that – you've done it today – that's the reason. Today, my colleague, Mr Rosenkranz, has re-submitted the request: Finally, I would like to make a study which shows how much foreigners really cost the social system. All of you, all four political groups, as you sit here – red, black, green and orange – voted against. You are not interested in what foreigners cost the social system. You don't care, because you have to pay for the little pensioners. They'll have to stand straight for that. This is a playout by foreigners against pensioners, what you're doing here. [[Abg. Riepl: That's not true! That's what you do!]] The pensioners pay so that foreigners receive benefits. And that's exactly what we don't want! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it is as you tell me that the foreigners are bringing us so much, then I ask myself quite honestly: Then why aren't our health insurances full? And why even the main association now reacts and responds to a long-term liberal demand and decides that the photo will come on the e-card from 2010 on? Yes, is the main association now suddenly as evil as the FPÖ? - I don't know! That's what it's like: The main association will also have a reason why it does this. Obviously, there is much more abuse than you want to confirm us here than you want to admit. [[Abg. Strache: (in the direction SPÖ) You will always come up with it for years too late! That's the problem!]] In this context, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] The measure planned by the main association will therefore have its reason. And I tell you – even if you dispute it and even if you say so as in committee, there is no abuse –: There's serious abuse! Behind the hand held, you also know about it, and behind the hand it is very likely from the main association that it is suspected that abuse will take place in the amount of €80 million annually. And that's just the tip of the iceberg! So you should think a little bit about it, because your new regulation of the 2-percent cover will increase the abuse again. That too, you will say again – and I already know that now – is not so, that will not happen. That's the reason! And this is also the reason why the main association has already submitted to our liberal demand and the photo comes on the e-card. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17170	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Belakovich-Jenewein is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please, you have the floor. [[12:53:16]] Deputies Sigisbert Dolinschek (BZÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Buchinger said that economic and social development should go hand in hand. – You should, but don’t, Minister of State! If I look at how you manage the increase in pensions, how the wages of employees in Austria develop compared to the value added to the economy, I must say: The revenue just bubbles, but it simply doesn't have the same thing from cake. This is a big difference, Mr Federal Minister, and that is what is going on here now. With regard to economic and social development over the last seven years, in which we have set the course, I must say that it is now squeezing economic revenue. We have a modernisation of the social state, a reorganisation of parts of the social system, in order to adapt the system in time to the new challenges. The times are changing! It was very easy to make a contribution to fiscal consolidation in order to be financially sound for the future. And that's what we started at this time. Now we see with regret that there is nothing going on in the wages. It is also evident in consumption, in domestic demand, that there is too little there. You'd have to sit here! 1 000 € minimum wage, that's just a lot too little. Net income is up to € 850. Today we have a minimum guarantee of 747 €. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, where is the difference? This government template contains so many good things, it is said. Mrs Csörgits claims that the pensioners will now participate in the economic upturn. Mrs. Colleague! That's where I have to tell you: Unfortunately, unfortunately not, because especially those who have very, very few, who have a partial pension – especially women are affected – get 1.7 percent increase, and this often with a pension of 400, 500 €. That is very, very sad! [[BZÖ and Abg. Bitch.]] There are, of course, also certain things in this government template that I support, such as the improvement for free workers, that they now also receive sickness benefits, that they have an unemployment insurance and also unemployment benefit, and also the occupational health care that will be introduced for them as well as for the self-employed – what we will treat later – and for the farmers. The cover of the prescription fee can be assessed differently, Mr. Federal Minister. They say that this is a social policy milestone. A social policy milestone, Mr. Federal Minister, considering that this means an administrative surplus of € 2 million per year! It has already been suggested today that the abuse will again celebrate solemn origins. It is also clear that less revenue is expected for the health insurance companies in general. The Federal Minister and the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs should, above all, consider how to implement a reform of the cash registers and make nails with heads, stop double-differences in this area and abuse. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The e-card just didn't prove itself! If you show the e-card abroad instead of the foreign health certificate, this does not apply. And in Austria, four or five foreign patients go with an e-card and get their benefits. That's just abuse! [[Abg. Head: At the presentation of the e-card you were there!]] Mr Schopf says: The financial situation of the health insurance companies needs to be improved! Mr Schopf, why do you not think that you are finally making a value-added levy?Unknown term type: "%s".? The fact that value creation is exhausted there is a Ursocialist idea. I have to say: If the income of the economy is bubbling, you can use it instead of increasing the health insurance contributions by 0.15 percent for the minimum pensioners. What then remains of a minimum pension, ladies and gentlemen? - Nothing! Pensions are increased by 2.9 percent. The Federal Chancellor has written a nice letter – he has also written it to my mother. I've read it through: Pensions are now being ‘ greatly increased’ compared to earlier. - There's one thing I have to say: I think he has slept a lot because we increased the compensation allowance for single people by €100 from 1990 to 2006. We increased it by 4.1 percent in 2006 and by 5.2 percent in 2007. And that's what we've been doing for compensation recipients – right? –, former Chancellor Dr. Schüssel! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We don't need to put our light under the casket. And now the minimum pensioners are just so fed off. And, of course, the brochure leaves a lot to be desired. It is not written in that the minimum pension increased by 4.1 percent in 2006. This is, as it were, a constituency. And the prices for energy, for food, for the goods of daily need, which quickly only so high. The minimum pensioners also need to understand this. The fees rise for water, wastewater, waste and so on. Everything is getting more expensive for the Austrians, and they now have to pay it all despite such a low pension. I have already mentioned the minimum wage. It is a dilemma of the SPÖ and the trade union – the SPÖ is the majority in the ÖGB – that nothing is going on in the area and we are still knocking around today at a minimum wage of €1,000. Last year we required a minimum wage of €1 300 and a valorization every year. That would be justified! Then the purchasing power in Austria would be guaranteed, and we would have social peace. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Then, Mr Federal Minister, the economic upturn would also go hand in hand with the social upturn.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17281	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[12:59:45]] Members Theresia Haidlmayr(Green): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Buchinger, I would like to start with your department and really make some clarifications and clarifications on the matter of the care we have now intensively on the tapet for a year and a half. Mr Minister, you're saying something like this: Whoever has such high care costs that they cannot be covered by the care allowance and by this grant, can still write it down in the form of an extraordinary burden. Mr Minister, you forget, however, quite deliberately or inadvertently, that it is very few people who have the opportunity at all to do so. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report, for his excellent report and for his excellent report. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you don't pay a tax, you can't stop the tax either. The increased care costs would not be recovered in the form of a negative tax. So in practice, Mr Minister, there is no such thing as that, except for all the rich. And I think the new care scheme should apply to everyone and not only to those who already have a high tax revenue and then can recover a little from it. Mr Minister, I really urge you to give up this speech in the future. I get the calls, and people ask me: What can I put off the tax? Then I ask: What kind of pension do you have? Then he says: 1 200 € gross. Then I have to say: Nothing! Then he says: But the Minister said that! – Yes, he said, but he said something wrong. Mr Minister, please do not say that anymore, because with such low incomes there is no refund in the context of the tax compensation, because you do not pay any tax. Minister, now to the entire care debate: There will be very few applications. You have also screwed your personal goals far down. In the summer, in June, you have still spoken of 500 applications you want to receive for 2007. 83 it has become, Minister! The yield is more than bad. Now you have a new target for 2008. They want 1,000 applications by August. Mr Minister, that would mean legalizing 2,000 caregivers. But you know, at least you've always said it, there are supposed to be 40,000 illegal guardians. There are still 38 000 left, which cannot be legalized, because people simply cannot afford it, Mr Minister. The grant you give is good and plausible, but it is not enough at Weitem to really finance a 24-hour care aid or personal assistance, unless one exploits his employees in such a way that one does not give them 45 € per day, but only 22 €. But people with disabilities and old people do not want to exploit other people, but they want money so that they can pay their employees properly, and not the opposite. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Kdolsky, you said that we had an overboard – in the committee you called it – of specialists. I asked you at the time: Call me three rural communities where there is a surplus of specialists! Mrs Minister, you have remained guilty to me to this day. And I'll ask you another supplementary question, maybe you can then answer me the following: How many of these communities, which are overcrowded with specialists, actually have accessible medical practices? I'm convinced you'll be on 0.0000... – I don't know in which area we're in. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister, if you really want us to have good quality in health care, then first and foremost also that people who need doctors can go there too, namely, into the doctor's practice. One of them once told me: Kinderl, that's not so tragic, then I'll just come home to you! – That’s what I said: That's very nice, but where do you do your X-ray? Genger you need to build with me? Specialists have equipment that can't be carried home like the family doctor's suitcase. That is why, Mrs. Minister, it is high time that there were mandatory regulations, that medical practices, which are being created, would be barrier-free and that existing medical practices would be created within a transitional period of twelve years, or that the old ones would be rebuilt. Mrs. Minister, to do this is not an illusion, but it must be a matter of course if you really want to guarantee that the free choice of doctors and a good quality of medical care are also ensured for people who are old and can no longer go well, who are disabled, people who are simply unable to climb up steps to reach their doctor. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17421	The next speaker was Mrs Rudas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17436	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! Mr Rasinger mentioned earlier that values should be discussed today. I think that's a very interesting suggestion. I'd like to take that up. Let us discuss values related to the increase in the pension imposed by SPÖ! That's where the ÖVP has to decide, Mrs. Aubauer. It didn't just startle a generation conflict. It was not only some so-called experts, but there were also large parts of the ÖVP who did this, it was also Minister Bartenstein who did it. At some point, the ÖVP has to decide: Let us use the Industrial Union or use the voters. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not so simple!]] Today is rightly a day of joy not only for pensioners, but especially for those who defend the social state. We have brought about this change of direction because of the social-democratic government participation. And that's exactly what we promised in the election campaign, and we're holding it again today. [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] The increase in pensions and the safeguarding of future pensions are no contradiction. Not the increase in pensions is a danger to my generation, but the panic of the neoliberals. And here I say: With the increase in pensions today, it is not done, and I would like to ask all the informed, reformable parts of the EIAP for support. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] We need to restore confidence in a state pension to my generation, because that is exactly what the future pension will ensure. The argument that one more acknowledges the elder is missing from the disciples is false and unolidarian. We need reasonable and solidaric solutions and no panic. And no one should believe – and I am speaking here again to some parts of the ÖVP, some so-called experts – that it would be kind of cool or especially youthful if one tried to get the minimum pensioners the last money out of the bag, but at the same time not to impose any tax on Mr Meinl when he inheriting. If suddenly parts of the Industrial Union, Minister Bartenstein and parts of the ÖVP have discovered their heart for the youth, I think that's great. Then I'd say, We import the property tax and pay the tuition fees. We can double, triple, the compensation for apprentices with the help of Minister Bartenstein. I'm full of it and the union, too. Otherwise, I don't congratulate a negotiator today, but I congratulate both the young and the old, but especially the social state of Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17482	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer, who has a speaking time of 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[13:09:30]] Member Werner Neubauer(FPÖ): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I should like to return to that once again – for all those who may no longer have done so in the discussion – how much the pensioners suffered last year, that everything in this form, as it is shown here on this excellent graphic, has actually occurred: [[the speaker holds a sheet of diagrams in the height]] A 47 percent increase in prices for onions, food of all kinds, such as potatoes of 25 percent, up to increases in prices of apples of about 10 percent had the seniors to endure. Of course, this also dampens the standard of living and limits it massively. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There has been the Commission's pension scheme in Austria for a number of years now. One thing was very remarkable at the last meeting that was held there: This Commission shall draw up a guide every year on the basis of various data. Only two of the parties present in this House voted against this guideline, which amounted to 1.7% for this year: These were the Greens and the Delegates of the Freedom Party. All others have taken note of this Directive. As a result, discussions and negotiations on pensions have been built on this guideline. And if you now know that 2 million pensioners in our country are affected by this pension scheme, of which approximately 230 000 – 10 percent in that country – are lucky to be finished with 2.9 percent, then I can say that is quite a result. Yeah, that's it. However, if you calculate the social security contribution of €37 and the 0.5 percent increase in the health insurance contribution, 0.15 percent, then that is another €35, which applies here. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: 0.15!]] Then keep telling the seniors a month and write 18 € more than that so far. And we're talking about people getting €747. That's not where you have to cheer up and say, yes, we're happy now because the state grants us this. 18 € more, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Buchinger, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, has justifiably referred to – I think it is good for him – that there has been a real loss in recent years; you must not forget that either. He didn't mention the sum. I mention them once again so that the ladies and gentlemen in the gallery also hear: 1 400 € Real loss the seniors have suffered in recent years. And this real loss was not offset by this reform either. We now have a complex system that will put us at risk of serious problems. The pension insurance institution has to handle about 170 calls on the day, where people will then be informed about a call center, which they will actually receive. If we had taken our pensioner price index system, i.e. a continuous up-to-date arrangement, it would have been clearer and easier and would not have made up the cost of approximately €100 million. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, because you first addressed the 500 000 people in Austria who now fall through the rust in this regulation: I can tell you why they are going through this: because they are below the compensatory allowance rate, which is below €747, and therefore have no right to compensation. According to the Pension Insurance Institute, 835 000 pensioners are below the limit for this compensation allowance rate and are too high for a variety of reasons, i.e. intergovernmental agreements, around 290 000 foreign residents and resident Austrians and the spouse's income. And they deserved it – in the majority they are women who fall down here – and there you have the moral obligation, Mr. Federal Minister, to ensure that these too receive their pension accordingly, because they are actually falling through the rust due to your proposal. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] You have to say that clearly again. One thing really upset the elderly – and I can now say that in conclusion – has really triggered a wave of outrage, namely the opinions of the so-called experts for pensions, who spoke of a “attack to the younger generation”, of “extruded ones”, like Mr Marin. Mr Beyrer has risen to speak of a “fall of sin” for the Republic. And Mr Mazal meant that this would be a huge burden on this country. – And this in the case of a pension adjustment, which does not even pay off the price, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is the real naughtiness that these gentlemen have really allowed themselves to speak to the pensioners with their words. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to allow a sentence on the question of long-term unemployed, because this has already been referred to by Mr Ollinger. We too believe that there is an urgent need for an amendment here. In this context, the Upper Austrian Councillor Josef Ackerl, the SPÖ, is well-known because he also belongs to this party, said: “Our representatives at the federal level are so weak that they can “not prevail” against the ÖVP once again. – More is not added to this. Perhaps you will prove the opposite to us, Minister of State, it would be a pleasure to me.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17552	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[13:16:19]] Member of Parliament Karl Donabauer (ÖVP): Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The interest in social policy is not as intimidating as I see it. I would also like in this debate that perhaps less robustness, but more content would be involved. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I listen to the speeches, I have to say that they are partly very tendent. That can be without a doubt. You just have to be able to live with it. A second one: I think social policy is not flawless, no, it was never, but it can be seen. Everyone here talking about poverty must know that our social rate in Austria is 29 percent of the gross domestic product. Show me a country that has managed this! I think we should talk about that too. Mr. Federal Minister, you are right if you say that the past government has not been able to do everything. No, no, no, But she doesn't deserve any blame either. Criticism may be practiced. The governments have not been able to do everything before, because it is simply not possible. We have, however, done a resuscisable government work as a whole. That is why we can afford all of this because we have income and employment. That's positive. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] If one speaks today of who is the better social politician, then I must emphasize that social policy is not for me the mode of play of a party, but responsibility for everyone. I can use it for my People's Party that we have been in the government since 1986 and have been very much involved in the good development. The pension adjustment includes – in order to bring this into the right size – € 100 million. Euro, this is this fascinating currency with a small number and a great effect. Please calculate what that would mean in Schilling! What appeals to me is the forever recurring ritual: The government parties – they also have to take responsibility for it – are aware of the adjustment. The opposition parties are never satisfied, and they will not be satisfied in the future. I think we should see the whole thing. There are, of course, flaws, no question. I personally think that we still need power in the compensation directive, and I also believe, Federal Minister, that we have to do something in the area of disability and fictitious exodus. In health policy, we are talking about € 13.1 billion we manage there, but the message alone that the local health phone has no money is too little for me for the parliamentary debate. I am missing the solution from the ambassadors, and I am missing here in Parliament, in addition to finding out how to do better. If it is always said that the last government would have had so little left for social security, then I cannot spare anyone to point out the following: Here there is a balance sheet of the main association. It says that the surplus revenue from 2001 to 2006 was €973 million. Of these, € 697 million were allocated to the local health phone and € 276 million to the independent federal authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, that was not a bad policy. Whoever only notices one thing, namely that he has been given too little attention in the past, should think about how he can make it better. I think social policy must also be one: It must be balanced, thought of all, held on to self-responsibility and, above all, respect the generation contract. That's important. The young people deserve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17638	The next speaker was Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[13:20:06]] Member Herbert Scheibner (BZÖ): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, from different reasonings of government and op- position spoken. That's in the nature of the thing. However, it is relatively clear that the Socialist Group is now also seeing it. If I obtain the comparisons of the increase in pensions, especially for the lowest pensions, then the increase in 2006 was 4.1 percent, and for 2007 5.2 percent. That was then, according to the argument of the opposition's robbery of pension. Today we have 2.9 percent increase, and this gives the Chancellor the opportunity to send jubilation letters to the pensioners. It is quite clear that the truth of the theory of Mr Donabauer is that government and opposition differ a little in their propaganda. But it would be important to take into account today's criticism of the opposition – which was very factual – and to fill these gaps. “Luck” is actually wrong, because it is really about the smallest pensions that have been forgotten quite simply. That's what we'd have expected. If you are talking about economic upswing and the great economic figures, then, Minister Buchinger, you will at least be here in a matter of fact and you may find a half-rate of thanks for previous federal governments that have provided three economic packages and ordinary tax reliefs precisely for this economic growth, for this economic power and for the tax income you are now benefiting from. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] If I speak of tax revenue, I am already in this discussion about the generation contract. Of course, the expenses for pensioners must not be used against the question of how the younger generation is going. No question at all. It is only then that such debates should be taken as an opportunity to answer the question of the younger generation, what their pension will look like, what their evening of life will be financed. And today everyone knows that future generations will certainly no longer be able to retire at the conditions to which they can retire. That is why it is also the responsibility of today's Federal Government, the youth and the generation that is now in the work process, for example through a tax reform, through a tax relief or through a flattening of the salary pyramid in the public service, which would make it possible for the boys to make more of an opportunity to invest, in addition to the state pension, perhaps in addition to an occupational pension, in the form of appropriate money, in order to ensure the financing of the evening of life. That would be important. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] So: No generation conflict is instigating, not leading ideology debates, but genuinely objectively, together with the generations, ensuring that even in 20 and 30 years of this generation contract can continue. Second point: A short while ago, on the health issue. Mr Buchinger, it might also be interesting to study the minutes of Parliament's speeches during the previous legislative period, because we have put forward proposals on how to really clean up the health system. Not as much as you do, through your hand in the pockets of the contributors, that is the simplest solution, but we have said: first of all, through savings – you can also discuss it a lot, have long discussions – but above all through a change of philosophy that you do not have in mind first of all how to finance the sick system, but how you can invest in health care and in prevention. That – and there are corresponding studies – would not be a few Save millions, but we could achieve up to €3 billion a year in savings. This would mean a sustainable rehabilitation of the health system, Minister. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We haven't heard from you today either. In this sense, I would also like to take into account the desire of many citizens in a small part of the area. With regard to health care, there is also always the discussion about mobile mast systems, health hazards caused by these facilities. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that this motion for a resolution will be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17792	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Colleagues has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17859	Mr Ehmann has been mentioned as the next speaker. 3 minutes. - Please, you have the floor. [[13:25:26]] Member of Parliament Michael Ehmann(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's proposals have been made. chen Article 15a Agreement shall enter into force on 1 January of this Agreement. ==References====External links== ==References== The countries thus receive €100 million in addition to a total expenditure of € 3 billion. However, a critical comment on this: In comparison, the increase in contributions that has already been addressed means of 0.15% for the health insurance companies we decide today, only one drop on the hot stone. In principle, however, I would say that this new agreement will ensure longer-term financial viability in the health sector. Of course, the Federal Government is also pursuing some important goals in its health policy. I am now saving myself that I will deal with only a single aspect of the matter on a point-by-point basis. This point is the comprehensive assurance and improvement of quality in Austrian health care within the framework of various projects such as ELGA, e-card, e-Health and so on. These are information and communication technologies that can be used in the future in the interests of patients, of course always while respecting and respecting the very important data protection for us. The use of personal data should only be very careful and exclusively with the consent of the patients or, if it is possible, even anonymized. The development of these technologies is a major concern for us, as this would give us rapid access to information both for patients and for the caregivers and would ensure this could prove particularly true in emergency situations and, I tell you, will also be, for example, in an accident where it is necessary to administer certain medications, in an emergency situation in which the person or the person concerned is unconscious and, for example, a insulin syringe should be administered in the case of sugar diseases. I'll be back on data protection again. It has been found that the current legal basis for the use of sensitive data was insufficient. However, the proposed changes are now intended to provide a basis for this. We must succeed in making the processes more efficient using our e-card system. A real step in this direction is the mandatory use of the e-card in hospitals, which we will also decide today by means of an amendment, but also the other projects mentioned with all their different purposes. Ensuring the care of patients through smooth cooperation with the respective healthcare service providers is one of our main objectives. We have already achieved a lot in this matter, as I mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e17926	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[13:28:41]] Member of Parliament Karl Oellinger(Green): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honourful task of reading to you the requests that Mr Groenewald has already announced and presented. I have to apologise for making this so late, but it makes little sense to introduce the detailed paragraphs necessary for an amendment to a wider television audience. But in terms of content, they are already well-founded. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] This is not the case, Mr Donabauer, that we would only criticise and not make proposals. This is the proposal. I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is simply about increasing the compensation allowance, as proposed by the government, still below the poverty threshold. Finally, I propose an amendment: [[Quoted print version removed]] In case you don't recognize yourself now: This is about increasing minimum pensions, mini-pensions below the compensatory allowance rate. This is also at the same time – Mr Neubauer is not in the room now – our answer to the motion for a resolution on the same subject, which is unfortunately too inaccurate, otherwise we would also agree with the request for freedom on this issue. But since, after the liberal application, all pensions are actually increased, regardless of whether there are several pensions or only one, our request is somewhat more precise in this sense. We are trying to get the consequence out of the fact that, of course, several pensions can also come together – but it may also be, Federal Minister, that with several small pensions and mini-pensions you will remain below the compensatory allowance rate.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18148	I would like to begin by saying that both of the motions for resolutions tabled by Mrs Ollinger, Mrs Freundes and Mr Freunden orderly In this case, the Commission will be able to take the necessary measures to ensure that the Community's financial resources are properly implemented. The two motions for resolutions are as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18238	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[13:34:18]] August Wöinger (ÖVP): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I pay tribute to the pension adjustments and also to the prescription fee cover, consider these measures to be also correct and important, but say already that this pension adjustment costs about € 700 million. There's a lot of money in there. I would like to extend the discussion, especially for the near future, and also for the young generation, in the sense of supporting young families and even the young generation. I think it is necessary that we also consider how we can improve the financial situation especially for younger people. [[Abg. Scheibner: tax reduction!]] On the pension reform, which has been mentioned several times today, I would like to say: It was right, important and necessary that the previous government carried out the pension scheme, which must be said. It would be wrong to spread sand into the eyes of young people in this regard and deliberately conceal these messages. We all know the development of the population and we know that this measure was necessary, this should be said honestly here. A word on the situation of the local health telephone – the Article 15a agreement is a matter for negotiation here. There is a Court of Auditors report which represents the regional health telephone Oberösterreich and Vienna in comparison. It's interesting to look at these numbers. In 2006, the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse paid €36 million in the famous compensation funds and received €60 million return. The local health fund Oberösterreich paid €25 million and received €4 million return. – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is also what I say as the Upper Austrian Member: The compensation fund is not a cow fed in Upper Austria and being milked in Vienna. It is precisely this issue that needs to be considered when it comes to rehabilitating the local health insurance fund. In Vienna, the homework was simply not done. It is evident that there are high frequency and tariff differences between the two cash offices and that the administrative burden in Vienna is higher. In Oberösterreich, a staff member of the Landeskrankenkasse provides for 600 insured persons, while in Vienna an employee is confronted with “only” – between quotation marks – 414 insured persons. In other words, the homework needs to be done in Vienna! But above all, there will be no money for the Wiener Landeskrankenkasse from the federal government if there are no accompanying measures. This is already to be held in this debate. That means: Money follows performance – and not vice versa. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to add the amendment tabled by Members Amon, Oberhauser, colleagues on Article 15a on the organisation and financing of health care for the years 2008 to 2013. First of all, it is about the obligation that the e-card should also be used for the provision of information to hospitals, and secondly a better cooperation in health care. The insurance institutions and the main association are hereby authorised to carry out joint projects on the optimization of administrative procedures. Both are measures that are important for health, and we therefore support them. I would also ask you to give your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18290	The amendment is sufficiently supported, properly applied and is submitted in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure and is therefore part of the proceedings. The amendment reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18422	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[13:38:27]] Mr Franz Riepl(SPÖ): Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! In a paper of the social partners - presented to the public on 5 May. July – the first sentence: “Austria has one of the best health systems worldwide with a comprehensive medical care for all people, regardless of age and income.” – I think we agree. Of course, the discussion on funding is interesting. It is precisely the funding of the regional health telephone that is at the heart of the current discussion. A serious discussion has been required. Mr Donabauer said that there was less detail and more content. In this respect, I am entirely with him. We have also tried in the Committee to argue in terms of content and not in terms of detail, if you remember. [[Abg. Oillinger: Well, that didn't work out so well!]] But, of course, in this context, the question – this question I would like to address to Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky – is how to conduct a serious discussion if, for example, an advertisement of the ÖVP is found in today’s Vienna edition of “Today” with the text: ‘SPÖ-Misswirtschaft is continuing: The WGKK – Vienna’s regional health fund – “can endanger your health. Information on the effect and potential adverse reactions of SP health policy You have the ÖVP Vienna, Hotline...” and so on. Did you order this, Mrs. Federal Minister? Is that with your consent...? – No, don’t stand below it, but “ÖVP” insists on it, that’s the problem. [[Abg. The other one was good! Just the end...!]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky.]] The interesting thing about this is: When you call the hotline, a nice colleague picks up and says that she can't give any information that she only has one employee who can say something about it, but he's busy. – This is the hotline, so actually a coldline. The question is now, Mr Donabauer: What Is “Deficient ”? – Either you distance yourself from such things, or we will not be able to discuss them serially. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Donabauer.]] - Good. I think we've got enough work to do. It is serious to think about it – in this respect I am once again with you, honourable Members – how to do better. Two things about it: I think we should not forget that there are a number of residues from the economy in the area of health, in the social system as a whole and in particular in the regional health insurance fund. You have to look at that. I do not think it is possible to go into the agenda if currently €934 million of social security contributions are not where they belong, at the time they belong – rising. This is therefore an issue that should not be forgotten on this occasion. In addition to these 934 million, €839 million was added, which had to be written off by the local health phone as infallible. This money, of course, is missing in the systems, part of which is also missing in the area's health telephone. There too, I think it would be wrong simply to go to the agenda. A third one, just a short while: I think we should also think about a broadening of contributions. People who work pay social security contributions from their labour income – that is what we find normal. People who do not make money work, but do not pay social security contributions from their capital income. I think we should consider how to make a contribution spread in the sense of ensuring the proper, decent and high quality of health care.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18503	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[13:42:22]] Member Maria Grander(ÖVP): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! In my speech, I would like to go back to seam management and care, i.e. seam management in the interests of patients. I would like you to use the term “connection” instead of “circuit management”. The Regulation includes ensuring a patient and patient-oriented fast, friction and complete, effective, efficient and meaningful care process or course. This means developing an integrated and networked supply structure of the stationary and part-station facilities, mobile care and care at home. This would simply contain the framework conditions for me. An example: In the hospital there is already a transfer care, where all the measures necessary for home use are started. I would also like to see a comprehensive family health sister, through whom problems can be identified at an early stage and people can be fed to treatment or therapy, which is then necessary. This would also be low-level contact and consulting partners. The maintenance in the network also helps to save costs; for example, when it comes to a pressure ulcer. Everything you can handle prophylactically in care costs at least one third less than if you have to treat it, so you have to treat it medically. I think these are things that have to be very conscious. I therefore call for care to play a greater role in health care, to continue growing in importance and to be further expanded. I would like to focus very briefly on e-health care. It must also be integrated. Especially in the health sector, all the people there are required as regards documentation. For a stronger anchorage of care, I would like to ask once again that care professionals carry out the classification of care allowance. It is simply necessary that care professionals make this classification. But we need to change the law for this, Mr Minister. This agreement therefore creates a framework for me, and in the individual areas the organisation must be put on top of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18583	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[13:45:24]] Member of the European Parliament Josef Muchitsch (SPÖ): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! I would like to comment on the debate on the financing of health care. The fact is, we all know, that the Austrian health system is one of the best in the world and is really outstanding in international comparison. All the more amazement it surprises me and also causes me some concern that there are forces in our country who are trying to get sick of this health system, also with the indication that medical care is collapsing in our country. I hope that this is not the strategy behind putting this system at risk. I hope that there is no strategy with the aim of taking away from self-administration to a private health insurance that their patients can choose themselves, according to premiums, by sex, age, profession, health condition. That's not what we want, we don't need that. Therefore, a clear confession and a clear escape of all those forces that are trying to force and implement it in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Who are these forces?]] There is the rumor that there is a group within the ÖVP that wants to drive the self-management to the wall. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You mean the ÖVP? We didn't know you meant the ÖVP!]] I welcome the fact that there are forces within the EIA that are committed to our medical care and are also writing it down. I am glad that this is also so written on the ÖVP homepage. However, writing alone is too little, it must be implemented here, creating framework conditions, instead of trying to drive a rope between the local health phone, instead of trying to adapt the officials in self-government with the aim of beating party-political capital. For years, the obmen of all local health telephones have been pointing out how the financial situation is in their cash offices and how they develop. [[Abg. Head: But that's little, point it out!]] There is also a chance in this crisis. Further measures must be implemented here. There are enough proposals and it is important to implement them. It is important to return to the local health phone the money that the old Federal Government has deprived them over the past seven years. It is important to provide the local health telephone with the money they need for the additional burden imposed on them by the old federal government legislation in recent years and which has not been given to them. However, it is not only necessary to reach a cover at drug prices with the pharmaceutical industry, but also to talk to the doctors about the economic method of prescription of medications, sanctions, reconcilability of contracts and relocation of planning sites and changes. Finally, my appeal to the ÖVP, our government partner: We really do not need party-political discussions as far as our best-known health system is concerned. [[Abg. Donabauer: Vice versa!]] We need a health policy discussion, which guarantees funding as far as possible, not short-term or medium-term, but long-term financing. In this sense, I really hope that together, we will succeed in maintaining and financing our proven system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18684	First of all, I declare that the amendment tabled by Mrs Ollinger, friends and friends has been properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18746	I give the floor to Mr Eder, next Mr Eder, for 2 minutes. - Please. [[13:49:31]] Deputies Dr Sebastian Eder(ÖVP): Madam President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of my short speaking time for the following amendment by Mr Dr Eder, DDr, in connection with item 1 of the agenda. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: on the Government template 297 d.B. on a Federal Act adapting legislation to the agreement referred to in Article 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of health care for the years 2008 to 2013. The aim is to eliminate a historically understandable imbalance in treatment of the Kursana sanatorium in Wörgl with regard to a lack of dosage according to the principles of the LKF. The sanatorium is not yet a member of the PRIKRAF, and this is a significant financial problem for this hospital. In total, a financial requirement of approximately €180 000 for social security. So the Kursana Sanatorium would be included in the PRIKRAF and make the necessary adjustment of the PRIKRAF's resources to the extent necessary. This would be an important decision for this hospital, which has been trying to be included in these PRIKRAF funds for six years. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to give your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18794	The amendment set out in its basic guidelines is amended in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG is distributed to MEPs, properly submitted, sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: Mrs Hellerer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18946	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! The data and facts on the Austrian health care system are well known and have been discussed intensively today. It's one of the best in the world. We also offer the same and low level of access to medical care in Austria. This is an area where 350,000 people find employment, of which 35,000 are doctors who have 90 million patient contacts a year and have 100 million prescriptions. It's a system that works best. We also know, however, that €25 billion is flowing into the Austrian health system, of which €2.9 billion is inefficiently used. Of course, it is necessary to address this issue and, of course, all areas of the Austrian health system need to be monitored and addressed for efficiency and funding. It is particularly important to look at the financing of the local health telephone, the self-management and the personal responsibility involved. In this context, managers are first and foremost required to present concepts that support the rehabilitation of these health insurance funds. However, it is also about the Austrian Health Structure Plan and the related health reform in 2005 and also about showing efficient health care systems in order to ensure long-term care opportunities – in the interests of patients. Of course, it is about bringing together all the financiers in order to involve them in the planning, control, financing and quality assurance of the Austrian health system, in order to make a contribution to health performance assurance and above all to highlight the economic benefits. This Article 15a Treaty ensures the continuation of the system already set up in the previous legislative period. This will also put in place measures to improve the efficiency of Austrian health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18984	The next item is Mrs Riener. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e18999	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I, too, refer to the Article-15a agreement between the Federal Government and countries, based on the Health Reform 2005 on the organisation and financing of the health care system. For me, networking is, in particular, an important point to be stressed in this regard. If one sees very little progress in the health platforms of the countries that have already been established, I believe that this networking between extramural and stationary services is an important thing. I like this agreement very much that the view of the entire health system is directed towards, and not everyone only has a view on his individual health care sector. Only in this way can joint planning, control and financing be forced. I would also like to say that, when everyone finally works together, there can no longer be what the Chamber of Labour recently stated in a study: that many colleagues are affected by the burnout in the hospitals in Styria. So I think that loads can be removed and reduced if everyone pulls on one strand. I particularly thank our Federal Minister Andrea Kdolsky for the agreement on these objectives, for this ambitious, thoughtful and ultimately successful agreement. I also thank you for financing the Geriatric Hospital in Graz and, above all, a great concern for financing the Hospital for Psychosomatics and Psychotherapy in Bad Aussee. I am pleased that these funds have been clarified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19028	The next item is the report by Mrs Lamassoure. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[13:56:43]] Member Claudia Skull(ÖVP): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard more often, Austria's health system is an excellent one not only after most Austrians feel, but it is also a top priority in Europe after the latest investigations. In order for this to remain so, it needs a pre-respective organisational and financing system. I would like to draw from this Treaty two points which seem to me to be essential from my work as a physiotherapist. This is, on the one hand, the strengthening of interdisciplinaryity, i.e. the cooperation of the individual health professionals and, on the other hand, the major area of health promotion and prevention. Interdisciplinaryity should be taken for granted in the sense of quality work for patients. It works very well in hospitals, rehabilitation centres and hospital hospitals, but in the established area there is still a great deal of effort to work satisfactorily in the sense of resources and the time economy. It is very often only through the special initiative of individual providers in the health field to cooperate; Contacting beyond allocations is the exception. Of course, the transmission of relevant findings often occurs only on demand. So there is still enough imagination to strengthen interdisciplinaryity in the extra-mural area. Thank you, Mrs Minister, for the attention that is being paid to it in this Treaty. The second area, which is very important to me, is the development of health promotion, but it is considered one of the means to achieve the goal of healthy Austrians and at the same time to maintain and finance our high-quality health system. Financial resources of €3.5 million are made available annually in order to promote prevention programmes of supraregional importance. I think it would be a worthwhile goal to increase the use of financial resources for the prophylaxis sector in order to spend less money on the repair sector. The members of the elevated medical and technical services also have a lot of know-how in the field of prophylaxis. They have high quality training, are team-powered and customer-oriented. They are very willing to make their knowledge and expertise available within the framework of the federal and regional health agencies. In this case, the Court of Finally, the aim is to improve the planning and networking of all healthcare providers. I would like to thank you, Mrs Minister, for your willingness to discuss and, on the other hand, for the better involvement of these professional groups. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19105	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputies. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[13:59:24]] Member of Parliament Karlheinz Kopf (ÖVP): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It was quite right to quote from Mr Riepl the paper of the social partners earlier, in particular the first sentence of it, which points out that we have one of the best, if not the best, health system. This means that people in this country can use the best possible care through one of the best health systems. But it is also one of the most expensive. We apply 10.2 percent of our gross domestic product for health including care. This is a top value in Europe, yes – once you leave the inefficient American system – worldwide, and that leads me to the conclusion: It's enough money in this system. – And yet it is powerful in the financial balek. Something's wrong! This has nothing to do with party politics, but we seem to have different approaches to the perception of responsibility, one can also call it ideology. Oillinger speaks only of “more money” in the application, or calls for more money – VAT and so on – and Mr Schopf spoke of more money earlier, including Mr Riepl, when he speaks of the extension of the basis of assessment, in fact, speaks of more money. We can already talk about how to make contribution bases better, more just, more meaningful in the future, but I would not, for the time being, like to see this discussed under the title ‘more money’, but first under ‘income-neutral’ and ‘better distribution’ before we talk about more money. But what we need now is serious research into causes in the face of this financial miscarriage. The main association gives the Court of Auditors the right to: Vienna notes – and this will also occur when comparing with other cash registers, for example Lower Austria – that there are potentials of efficiency in the own responsibility of the cash registers. For the Vienna cash register, these potentials are estimated at 80 million in their own responsibilities, and for the Lower Austrian experts already 150 million – measured at the Benchmark Oberösterreich. I do not give right to the Court of Auditors in the list of the less-incomes due by the legislator because they are unilateral. It has already been said today: The balance of those measures that have brought something, and those that have cost something, is positive for the cash registers over the last six or seven years. We have a system of social health insurance with self-administration, and it turns out throughout the world that countries with self-managed health insurance systems to finance their health system are more efficient than tax-financed. I am familiar with this social health insurance system with self-management, but this is already a damned responsibility for us – I am also one of the officials in this system – and those, dear friends of social democracy, cannot afford to be exhausted in showing only threatening financial bottlenecks over years and then call for them: I did that! [[Abg. Neugebauer: You have to do something!]] The commitment, the responsibility goes a little further; it only ends when acting, and I miss it a little. If the Court of Auditors points out that we have potentials within our own sphere of responsibility, then before we call on politics, we have the damn duty and responsibility to use everything in our own responsibilities first before calling on others to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19157	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. For business treatment: Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler. - Please. [[14:03:50]] Member of the Commission. Peter Westenthaler (BZÖ) Madam President. [[on business management]] Ladies and gentlemen! The great coalition continues its path, which we have already criticized from the speaker's desk: A half hour ago, at 1.35 p.m., a amendment was tabled by Mr Amon and Mr Oberhauser and exactly 10 minutes ago, a amendment by Mr Dr. Eder and Mr Niederwieser. It is totally unacceptable for the opposition that applications are put on the table here, legislative proposals, amendments, and there is no chance of checking their content and ensuring appropriate voting behaviour. Therefore, I would like to ask you for all the votes on this item on the agenda - as it did before - to be taken only after the vote on the next item on the agenda, so that we can review the amendments. I'm just saying, I consider such a process of a large coalition with two-thirds majority to be unacceptable and unacceptable to us just before the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19204	Is there any further word messages to this effect? – Mr Brosz, please. [[14:05:16]] Member Dieter Brosz (Green) Madam President. [[on business management]] I would like to follow up on the statements made by Klubobmann Westenthaler. We also support this request to postpone the vote and only after the vote on the next item on the agenda. By the way, there is also consensus on this – which has already been achieved – that if a political group makes this request, which is also being met.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19234	Mr. Klubobmann Schüssel, please. [[14:05:40]] Mr Wolfgang Schüssel (ÖVP) Madam President! [[on business management]] We don't mind. In itself, things are relatively harmless. This is an amendment concerning the Wörgl Hospital. The wish is in itself known, it has also been discussed. The second request concerns clarification. But I have no problem with taking account of the wishes of the two opposition parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19273	Mr Aspöck, please. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Weinzinger is called the “Aspöck”! The family name should be a term for you, I suppose.]] - I'm sorry! [[14:06:08]] Mr Lutz Weinzinger (FPÖ) Madam President. [[on business management]] The FPÖ, of course, joins this desire and calls on the coalition to perhaps make additional proposals more cost-effective in the future. It is really unreasonable for us to get applications on the table at the last moment and then decide. – I thank you in advance for being present.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19317	Mr Broukal, please. [[14:06:42]] Member of Parliament Josef Broukal(SPÖ) [[on business management]] The SPÖ also agrees with the proposed procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19347	I thank you for the speech. Since major amendments or supplementary amendments have been tabled in the short term and a short break in the sitting is not sufficient to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to the vote until after the vote on TOP 4 to 5, and we shall continue to complete the agenda. [[14:07:09]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on amendment 154/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Johann Rädler, colleagues with regard to Europe-wide gross pricing obligation for air carrier ticket offers (340 d.b.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 158/A(E) by Mr Gerhard Steier, Mag. Gertrude Aubauer, colleagues on voluntary labelling of electrical appliances to reduce electricity consumption in standby (341, e.g.) President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: We therefore come to TOP 4 and 5 on the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mrs Hradecsni is speaking on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[14:07:52]] MEPs Bettina Hradecsni(Green): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The gross price award issued in Austria in the Awarding Act, which obliges airlines to indicate ticket prices for air travel with all applicable fees, is a clear legal rule in the Consumer protection. This enables customers to see at a glance what the ticket actually costs; misleading lock offers are made much more difficult to use. This clearly shows that legal regulations at national level are quite useful and can be exemplary. For example, the EU calls for every second airline to mislead customers when selling tickets over the Internet, and also threatens to close the internet pages in question. However, it has not yet adopted a European regulation, and in this sense we welcome it when it is requested by the Austrian Federal Government. In view of the fact that we have seen, in the light of the law referred to above, how meaningful legal provisions can be in the sense of a clear consumer information, I am completely incomprehensible, indeed quite enigmatic, as you, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and SPÖ, have been able to make the present application for standby. It cannot, however, be the task of the Austrian Parliament as a legislative body to give the government a mandate to allow the voluntary identification of electrical appliances. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign]] If you want to identify your equipment voluntarily, you can do it now, and some companies do. In my opinion, it is even very unthinkable to accept such a request, as it states something that cannot be implemented, and it does not keep what it promises. We agree with the reasons for this request; we had also made a very similar request. It is true that in standby mode, devices consume significantly significant amounts of electricity. In addition, there are also numerous devices that are only apparently switched off, but still wait for signals and consume electricity. With these devices, the pressure on the on and off button does not help either, as it does not put the devices at zero power consumption, it only has a psychological effect. And why is that so? – It is simply and simply cheaper in production, and therefore most manufacturers are currently giving up on their devices that they will actually be separated from the network when they turn off. Conclusion: Almost all electrical appliances cannot be completely switched off at all, but this is not at all known to most customers in the business during the purchase decision. Of course, we must admit that it is useful for some devices to leave the standby operation for data storage, and do not consider it useful to demand a general ban on standby. However, it would be very useful to make sure that you buy a low-cost device in standby power consumption. It is simply about energy efficiency and unnecessary electricity costs that burden households. The cost is estimated at between €60 and €150 per year, which are spent more or less for nothing. According to the current state of play, a power plant with a power output of 150 megawatts would be necessary for the production of the entire Austrian standby performance. The CO2 balance also has a negative impact on unnecessary and inefficient standby operation. In view of our extremely bad situation and the threatening penalty payments due to the unachieved Kyoto targets, we should really see every way to influence them in any way in a positive sense. In order to do this, we need clear legal provisions which must include a reference to electricity consumption, standby consumption. and also on whether a device can actually be separated from the network or not, or with what consequences it would be associated with. In the interests of consumers and the environment too, we do not demand any nebulous agreements on a voluntary basis, but rather very clear, legal regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19512	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member. [[14:13:00]] Deputies Mag. Johann Maier(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria has always been leading in terms of awarding prices in European comparisons, at a time when there has been the Awarding Directive in Europe. Therefore, it was also logical that in 2006 the award-winning law was unanimously amended here in the House: with the aim of requiring gross prices in Austria for the national area in particular for airlines that were excluded. This scheme has made itself absolutely paid and has now been positively confirmed by an action by the EU Commission, which has demonstrated that in Austria the providers – namely those who offer air services on the Internet pages – have adhered to this gross price award. The situation is different in other countries. My predecessor has already pointed out that the EU Commission has found shortcomings in half of the countries. This, the House, ladies and gentlemen, shows the need for a European regulation. Consumerism in this area, where holidaymakers, those who fly elsewhere, are led astray and deceived, should not be accepted in this common Europe. That is why we have jointly tabled this proposal, which provides for the members of the Austrian Federal Government to stand up for this gross price award at European level. ==References== The Ministers for Transport of the European Union adopted a positive political decision in November. It is now about the implementation of this decision in the European Union. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! However, if there are positive decisions at European level, it is up to the national states to provide for the appropriate controls. I would also like to point out that it will also be up to the Austrian and national price bodies, supervisory bodies, to ensure that this gross price award is respected. We know other areas, such as passenger damage, where there is also a European requirement, but where we know that in many European countries these regulations are not complied with. That is why, Mr Federal Minister, our appeal, too, is to insist that we do not give up legislation, but that in the Member States we also ensure the implementation and control of these positive provisions for European consumers. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Europe can do a lot for consumers. It is of course also up to the Member States to implement and control these rules. In this sense, I would like to thank the Austrian award-winning bodies which are active in the federal states. ensure that the prices for goods and services are awarded accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19591	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[14:18:01]] Deputies Mag. Dr. Manfred Haimbuchner(FPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We from FPÖ welcome the commitment of gross pricing in terms of advertising for air travel. In this respect, FPÖ has also agreed to the request in the Consumer Protection Committee, for several reasons. Firstly, it is important that consumers are not misled by misleading advertising. Often it turns out afterwards that a cheap trip is not a cheap trip, but a very expensive journey. This is also worrying in connection with the fact that many consumers actually have to save their holidays very hard – and then in retrospect that the business becomes very expensive. It is often in the truest sense of the word a “lower, ” as it is said in the common language. Such a scheme should also be transferred to other areas in the sense of transparency and comparability. It is true that, of course, it is a matter of course, as Mr Maier has already mentioned, that it will also be enforceable at European level, but also that the national states control the existing rules. What is useful if we make a legal regulation, but it is ultimately not properly controlled? We know that a regulation that does not include a corresponding penalty is not worth anything in the free market either. Furthermore on the agenda is the labelling of electrical appliances to reduce electricity consumption. That's very interesting: Here you want to voluntarily make something possible. I have already asked colleague Aubauer whether such a voluntary label could not be made until now. We live in a private autonomy. I think that if two contracting partners regulate such a thing, they can do it. Where's there, please, the consumer protection? In the future, do this in the case of workers' protection, so that you will say: We create the possibility that there are any voluntary arrangements. – This is really not the meaning and purpose of a consumer protection law, a consumer protection provision that you can make any voluntary agreements. In fact, it is precisely the consumer protection law that places emphasis on the fact that there are two-sided binding regulations, which cannot be amended either. The Consumer Protection Act is so strict in part. And it is rightly so strict because, of course, there is no level of arms, as it is so beautifully formulated in Austrian civil law. There must be a level of arms. Most of the time, the consumer is in a very bad situation. Accordingly, there must be a binding regime that allows consumers to enforce their rights. I cannot agree with this request at all, and I must give Mr Hradecsni the right of the Green Group, because the Greens' request was also supported by us in the Consumer Protection Committee, because only this request would ensure a binding regulation. Only that would have been in the sense of real consumer protection. The ÖVP always refers to the “Constitutional Arch” and says it must be all so serious. – This is not a serious request, Mrs Aubauer! It is not serious to try to sell Parliament: We're going to make something possible up to now. No one has prevented an entrepreneur from voluntarily identifying it. That's really absurd! The arguments that were then rejected in the Consumer Protection Committee had been raised. I can only say: If a consumer is to be protected – that is also our concern in this area – then there must be transparency, then there must be an obligation, a binding obligation, which is also not invariable. Then, I think, a lot would have been made possible for the benefit of consumers. But we cannot accept this request because it should only allow something that has been possible to date. In the future, I would like us to consult the Consumer Protection Committee on things, and if we were to make something meaningful for consumers here, then we would also make binding regulations – and not any alibi actions, so that one might protect one or another businessman. Brave entrepreneurs do not need to do this anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19679	As the next speaker, Mr Rädler is speaking at 3 minutes' speaking time. - Please. [[14:23:23]] Member of Parliament Johann Rädler(ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Haimbuchner, you have questioned the seriousness of Mr Aubauer's request. I now have to question the seriosity of a liberal Member. To the free market: They have certainly heard that there are models in Germany – for example “Saturn”, “Media Market” – that already voluntarily attach these markings to their devices. One should focus on the market, promote competition, and I believe that solutions will arise over the next few weeks, months and years that will meet this request. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: This has nothing to do with this!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: There is also the law against unfair competition!]] I will then come to the question of the mayor, but allow me to talk about the issues dealt with in the Consumer Protection Committee on the transparency of those offers in air transport. Two years ago, we decided on a scheme in Austria, which has already been mentioned, which brings more transparency to consumers. Review and evaluation by the European authorities have shown that 20 airlines in Austria have complied with this call at the legal level. At European level, there is still a need for rethinking. Some 50 percent of 447 airlines have failed to comply with these calls, although the Council has already drawn up a regulation. I therefore welcome this advance from our country; here we must act Europeanally. A word to the Minister for Social Affairs on a very different subject, which has been raised very often today: They have said that we must also give place to the social share in our country in our competitive advantage and in our booming economy. I wonder if that is the case in all countries. As we have seen today, Mrs Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig has spoken very vehemently in Lower Austria against the capital line. I believe that this should be clarified within her party and perhaps she should feel called as a low Austrian to follow the example of the head of state Pröll. [[Abg. Parnigoni: We agree!]] Or, in the SPÖ Lower Austria party programme, the roof mark to make social policy has been made a footnote in the party programme. But I'm not going to go out of it. Mr Bundesminister Buchinger, I remember when you were not sitting here as a minister on the government bank when the “social cold” from 2000 to the previous year under a different form of government was apparently broken out under quite different circumstances. Societal cold means to me, if you leave the pensioners in doubt before Christmas, if they then turn to 1. January 2008 in a criminal field. These are the ones who need our help. A word on social security funds: I believe that there is also a very different need for action here, when I see social security schemes at Vienna level, for example, providing heating aid. In Lower Austria, this is quite different again. There is still a huge need for reform. To do this, you could take a look at a few games at country level or at community level. This would be a social policy that I live in and perhaps also a requirement which the SPÖ could prescribe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19754	The next item is Mr Dolinschek's speech at 5 minutes' speaking time. - Please. [[14:27:10]] Deputies Sigisbert Dolinschek(BZÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This request by the great coalition, by Mr Maier and Mr Rädler, is about achieving a clear award for tickets from airlines across Europe. I must say, of course, that I have to say a low price, is an error of the consumer. Fees, taxes, taxes to hide, that is not in the sense of consumers, is not consumer-friendly. I have to say that there is a need for action in this area. In the context of an EU-wide Internet survey, it was found that half of all websites of airlines have uncertainties, irregularities and violations of this Directive. There will now also be some enforcement within the European Union within the framework of the cooperation between the authorities in order to verify the reliability of web sites of cheap air tickets providers. Deficiencies were found in more than 50 percent of those audited. Austrian companies were not involved because the gross price awards for ticket offers from airlines are mandatory in Austria. And that's a good thing. But we have the problem that foreign providers also offer flights over the Internet when flying away from Austria. I have to say that there is already some example, for example, that the German company “German Wings” when booking on the Internet – and only an internet booking is possible with this airline, Johann Maier, you know that! – on flights from Vienna regularly hits 48,21 €. Just these things are subverted. For example, proper pricing could be possible and enforced via airport operators vis-à-vis a European airline. I wonder, colleagues Maier and Rädler: Why is this request aimed only at prices and not at the entire package of prices, contract terms and understanding of the other conditions as a whole within the meaning of consumer protection? Why is this request only about prices? That's the big question for me. In my opinion, the great coalition should not restrict itself to calling for compliance with the provisions already in force in Austria in such soft resolutions, but should go beyond that. How could it be that airlines such as “SkyEurope” require an administrative fee when refunding taxes and fees for non-connected flights, and that the condition on the administrative fee in English and not in German is also met? Such high administrative fees certainly go beyond the actual costs of this recovery and devalue the right of refund in most cases. Mr Maier, there is a need for action in this area, and the great coalition should not be limited to acting with such soft applications, but should make nails with heads in this area, because what is stated in costs, in prices should not be increased by additional charges. In the future, all taxes, all fees, all taxes, everything that matters, should be included in the price. As regards the labelling of electricity consumption in electrical appliances, I must say that Mr Haimbuchner has put it to the point: The power consumption belongs to the equipment, both the active consumption and the standby consumption, so that the consumer can see it when buying this electric device. I do not understand that we are now making a request on the part of the great coalition – Mrs Aubauer, you will then comment on it – which provides for a voluntary approach: There is no need for a voluntary decision here in the House! Either it becomes mandatory – or not. I fully agree with the Greens' request, which has been postponed in the Consumer Protection Committee, which provides for a mandatory requirement for manufacturers, dealers and road hauliers to indicate the power consumption of each device and also the use of standbys. This makes sense – but in the case of a voluntary scheme, no one will write anything up, because that is possible today: On a voluntary basis, you can already indicate consumption on all devices – or not. Voluntary is voluntary!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19822	The next speaker is Mrs Fleckl, with a speaking time of 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[14:32:43]] Anita Fleckl (SPÖ): Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Dolinschek, what you have referred to is already regulated in the air passenger compensation, and the request concerns only the award of prices. - Just so much for it. [[Abg. Parnigoni: He doesn't know himself again, the Dolinschek!]] If someone makes a trip, he can tell you what it's called beautiful. But now we are – through the Internet and Call Center, which give us the opportunity to book travel or flights – so far that, before taking a trip, much has to be said about complaints about low-cost flight offers that have become expensive, complaints about advertising practices for low-cost flights that have not been mentioned, airport charges, surcharges and other ancillary costs. The tricks of the suppliers have become adventurous and the imagination there obviously has not set any limits. This proposal, which I believe is very important because it is cross-party and achieves unanimity, is an impulse for the EU: an impulse that, at last, a clear, Europe-wide gross pricing requirement must apply to ticket offers in order to enable consumers to achieve rapid and easy comparability of prices and services, which is the basic prerequisite for fair and effective competition among suppliers. I am glad that Austria has a pioneering role to play in combating the misleading of consumers, so that no expensive surprises occur in the booking of travels, such as “SkyEurope” for example, where a flight is awarded €14, but which ultimately costs consumers €120, i.e. € 106 more. Such deceptions must be introduced in the interests of consumers. In the case of bookings, it must finally be clear which additional costs the passengers are expected to face, and it must also be clear that the best price does not always have to be the final price. I believe that it is a very good signal that we have reached a far-reaching agreement here: a clear signal that the interests of consumers must be safeguarded. There are many other reasons why a holiday can be patched, but it must not be that travellers are taken by shabby tricks before the trip starts. In this sense, I hope that gross value for money will finally be taken into account at EU level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19867	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[14:35:50]] Deputies Mag. Gertrude Auber(ÖVP): Madam President. Estimated Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haimbuchner, I am pleased that you are so committed to consumer protection and energy saving that you do so with so much commitment! [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Even with mandatory regulations!]] We can use any helping voice. Climate protection begins with each individual, with each individual at home. It is important to avoid unnecessary energy consumption. The standby mode of televisions, radios, video recorders and other devices is just a parade example of energy waste. An estimate to illustrate the extent: Depending on the size and equipment of a household, the electricity costs per year can be summated to about 150 € for standby operation alone. – So that's how much every household can save. That is why we want electric appliances to have a label on which the energy consumption is pointed out in stone and clear terms. Why a voluntary label? – There are three good reasons for this. First of all, Austria's economy is not so much able to escape from Austria's neighbouring countries – this is probably a good argument. Secondly, the voluntary experience in Germany has been very good. My colleague Rädler told me earlier: For some time now, “MediaMarkt” and “Saturn” have voluntarily announced the power consumption of the devices, and this has led to the greatest satisfaction of customers and dealers. [[Abg. Hradecsni:... in Parliament!]] Thirdly, it makes sense to wait for an EU directive to be prepared and to bring Europe-wide uniform rules. Ladies and gentlemen! So today we are taking a further step towards saving energy. It should be easier not to waste expensive energy anymore. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e19932	The next speaker is Mr Steier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[14:38:15]] Member Gerhard Steier (SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Christmas is approaching – and the cash registers are ringing, especially with the sellers of electrical appliances and entertainment electronics. In the meantime, many consumers are well aware that the grip on the wrong device can be expensive. Those who do not pay attention to electricity consumption in electric devices such as televisions and DVD players quickly pay attention to it, because devices with the same equipment have enormous differences in electricity costs. At the same time, we know that the electricity consumption of the equipment in operation and standby is increasingly becoming a purchasing criterion for many consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, however, it is often not possible for consumers to arrive at appropriate information. As an environmentally conscious consumer, who has internalized climate protection, energy savings and the importance of energy-efficient devices, one is now in the specialist trade, faced with hundreds of flashing devices that invite for purchase. In the flood of technical information on the billboards, however, the information on the power consumption of the device in operation is usually missing; the standby consumption values often do not even know the sellers. Dear ladies and gentlemen! A consumer label – in which all speakers have now agreed – is a necessity. This request, Mrs Colleague, provided for mandatory labelling in the first instance and was then a little weakened in the coalition area. However, the fact is that for the first time – and we can be proud of it together – we have a direct reference situation, also in the formation of awareness of the consumer, so that he can deal with all these materials and thus become aware of where his possibilities lie. Ideally, a label on the advertising boards or price labels of the devices would already be traded so that consumers can recognize potential electricity eaters at a glance. This is also the basic idea of this application, which provides for the labelling of electrical appliances to reduce power consumption in standby. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that, as Mr Aubauer pointed out, the 2005/32/EC European Directive will help to identify the energy efficiency of products and will also provide a binding situation. in this respect. It is important, however, because we are all talking about energy saving and sustainability – a topic that will also be debated in the urgent question, now at 3 p.m. – that we find the approach here, not “fuck is horny”, but: By buying intelligently with a sustainable effect, which lies in the possibility of individuals, the budget, the business, we can save money while at the same time preserving the climate, because we use energy intelligently. I would ask you to support this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20005	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[14:41:38]] Deputies Norbert Sieber(ÖVP): Madam President. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Whoever we don't know, the super offers on the Internet: At 29 € to Rome, London, Amsterdam or anywhere. Mr Fleckl has even discovered an even cheaper destination. [[Abg. Grandruck: 50 cents to Barcelona!]] – Great for consumers, one could say, but these lock offers are a problem from the point of view of consumer protection. The true price is masked by different taxes, fees and other supplements. Especially the airlines were and are particularly inventive with the additional costs. This makes an objective price comparison very, very difficult. On the other hand, competition between low-cost airlines and other airlines is quite tempting for consumers. Whether this also applies to the environment is another chapter. In Austria, the gross price regulation has been applicable since the 14th century. January 2006, and as a survey by the EU Commission shows, this works quite well in Austria. A total of 447 web pages were examined across the EU. Almost half had misleading information. All 20 web pages examined in Austria were fairly designed – quite a success of the gross price regulation. However, important consumer protection decisions have already been made at EU level. The EU Parliament has already adopted the regulation at first reading in July, and the Council has now completed its deliberations positively. Informal agreement has already been reached, but formal adoption of a common position is still pending. A second reading of the file is expected to be completed in January 2008 or more likely in February 2008. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20045	The next speaker is Mr Voller. 2 minutes. - Please. [[14:43:36]] Deputies Christian Füller (SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Austria has regained its pioneering role in the field of consumer protection with today's motion for a resolution to improve passenger rights in the air transport sector and is already taking a step further. The EU Transport Ministers also met on 29 October. A decision was taken in this direction in November 2007. In order to avoid, in the future, misleading advertising and curfew offers with hardly comprehensible costs for consumers, gross prices in the air transport sector, which until now were not regulated by the 1992 Federal Law No 146, are to be added to a common European solution. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] A more manageable and easier possibility for people in the future to compare various offers was already in the XXII. The legislative period is a matter for all the parties represented here in the House. However, there is a need for re-examination at EU level. Several practices in low-cost flights – airport charges, taxes, taxes and so on, which are not stated at ticket prices and only later provide bad surprises for consumers – must be stopped. At European level, an Austrian initiative has already led to the creation of a new one. Adopted this issue on July 2006, and presented a proposal for a Regulation on common rules for the implementation of air services in the Community. I would ask the relevant members of the government to continue devoting themselves to the next EU Council of Ministers and to implement a transparent European regulation, which deserves the designation ‘non-domestic and consumer-friendly’, according to Austrian example.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20100	The next item is the speech by Mr Höfinger. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[14:45:55]] Member of Parliament Johann Höfinger(ÖVP): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Let me address the request concerning the voluntary labelling of electronic devices and electrical appliances to reduce power consumption in standby mode. As Members of this House have pointed out before me, these are two areas, namely the point, but also the whole, which we have to look at here, as well as the fact that the work on this subject should, of course, also have an awareness-raising effect. If you look at the whole whole thing, it is natural to calculate all electrical devices running in standby mode to a huge share of total power consumption. And if we are talking about energy efficiency and climate protection contributions, then we have to find that we can naturally save this electricity. This would be an essential complement to the approaches to the solution of this question. Of course, it is also a matter of saving each individual household. We are talking about a savings of about 1 € per watt per year. Then, in a household – when we think about the kitchen, about the entire living area, how many appliances are there – there is also a lot together again, where everyone can then read on the electricity bill how much savings there can be achieved in the year. One important aspect which has not yet been mentioned, but which, I think, is of enormous importance to our habitat, is the health aspect in this context: All electrical devices, all electronic devices in standby mode create a magnetic field and thus electro-smog, and I think in the living area where the children play, or in the sleeping or resting rooms you should really pay attention to a non-voltage zone. All in all, of course, the objective of the present proposal also contributes positively to this in a number of ways. I can therefore only ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to accept this request. – In this sense, thank you very much. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[14:48]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: Next, Mr Ehmann. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[14:48:10]] Member of Parliament Michael Ehmann(SPÖ): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen. In the private household, energy consumption is often hidden in unsuspected places. More and more electronic devices consume electricity, even if they are not used at all. We know this from stereo systems, DVD players, satellite receivers and so on. A growing share of electricity consumption is lost on the standby, also called standby. A study by the International Energy Agency shows us that the standby operation of equipment devours an average of around 7.5 percent of the electricity budget. If the various equipment did not run in standby mode in Austrian households, you could save around 120 € in the year – in the extreme case, we have already heard, up to 150 € in the year. As a rule of thumb, you can take the following: 1 Watt standby consumption costs 1 € per year. A coffee machine has a consumption of 21 watts per year in standby mode. In Europe, annual standby consumption is 30 terawatt hours – that is the annual energy consumption of Hungary, for example. As a first step, I therefore see the voluntary labelling of all electrical appliances, i.e. those of consumer electronics. For household appliances, such as refrigerators or washing machines, there is the EU uniform energy label. From 2008 onwards, as already mentioned, there will be a voluntary labelling of electricity consumption on the price signs for all electrical appliances, which includes both electricity consumption in operation and standby, which is essential for consumers. The mandatory labelling has often been required, it will also come, and I can certainly support this as a further step, because there is currently an EU directive that will call for this very duty. A further step would even be the possible mandatory installation of NVRAM blocks. What do I mean by that? There are devices that do not have standby consumption, for example, through the installation of NVRAM. This is a storage technology that can keep the stored information without maintaining the energy supply – in contrast to volotile, so volatile storage like DRAM or SRAM, which loses the stored information without energy supply. Overall, this area is also heading in the right direction. That is why I ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20236	Next, Mr. Ing. School speaking. 2 minutes welcome. - Please. [[14:50:52]] Member of the Commission. Hermann Schultes (ÖVP): Madam President. High house! I too can talk about standby. In fact, when we go through our apartment at night, we don't turn up the light, still a lot of small lights are burning, and that's the standby operation that eats electricity and costs money. We have to keep this in mind – it has already been said –: Per household the standby operation costs between 50 and 150 € per year, but in total it is the power of a power plant of 150 megawatts. Just so you can imagine: The Danube power station Vienna has about this capacity, or three biomass power plants Simmering would also have it. The standby operation eats about 200 000 tonnes of oil or gas equivalent, resulting in a release of 500 000 tonnes of CO2. - And we don't want all of that. But the really unpleasant thing about it is that it not only costs a lot of money, but we really do not have this electricity. Our electricity import increases, we import de facto atomic current, and if we have these increasingly growing electricity eaters in our households, it is clear that by doing so we are forcing nuclear imports. It is therefore important to discuss this issue, it is important to be able to read the consumption on any product, on any price tag, in order to bring this discussion to the public. Another discussion will be linked to this: We discuss standby costs of 100 € per household, and at the same time we discuss eco electricity costs of 20 or 30 € per household. One thing we don't even notice, and the other is supposed to be a big problem. I would therefore like to remind you at this point that in this discussion we should at last become honest and say: We want less nuclear power, we want less electricity from fossil energy sources, we want more electricity from renewable energy, and we want this electricity to be produced in Austria too! Therefore, it would be useful and right to use this discussion to discuss the Ecostrom Act, to come up with an acceleration here and to help us get an immediate solution to the biogas plants very quickly. That would be honest discussions on this subject. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20285	Next, Mr Spindelberger. 2 minutes. - Please. [[14:53:24]] Member Erwin Spindelberger (SPÖ): Madam President. Minister! What has often found too little attention in many people in the past is worldwide today, not only through Al Gore’s film “An Uncomfortable Truth” in all its mouths. Words like “climate change”, “CO2 emissions”, but also higher energy costs are following us step by step, and I ask myself the question: Is that the case in Austria? I often believe that this is not the case, because you think various studies, then the watches go differently with us. In comparison with 19 European countries, our country has second place in terms of the standby share of total electricity consumption. Sagely 2.5 percent is in Austria. Other countries do not even need a quarter of it. Focusing on this power consumption on the private budget, it is seen that on average this devours even legendary 7.5 percent of the total budget for electricity. The Austrian regulatory authority E-Control has calculated that a power plant with a power output of 150 megawatts is currently required for the production of the entire standby power and that the standby account accounts for 0.5 percent of the emissions of carbon dioxide in Austria. Standby means not only higher electricity costs, but also higher environmental pollution. Even with an average household, a lower electricity bill of around €204 would be possible by a more economical use of energy, with the share of electricity costs generated by standby in an average household of €95. This proposal should therefore contribute significantly to the fact that from 2008, if only on a voluntary basis, electricity consumption will be labeled in standby mode in order to improve awareness among consumers. In any case, I am convinced that we can contribute to the fact that we can say soon: good-bye standby!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20352	Next, Mr Kainz. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[14:55:54]] Deputies Christoph Kainz(ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! A great deal has already been said on this item on the agenda, which will ultimately be decided unanimously. However, four minutes before the call for the urgent request, I would like to say two more sentences on the gross price award. I think that especially in today's time, when a real advertising flood comes to us, transparency and clarity are more important to the consumer than ever. That is why the gross price award is to be welcomed so that the consumer can really know how it is. I think that this request, tabled by Mr Rädler, but also by Mr Maier, is undoubtedly correct and will also enable a transparent, comprehensible European regulation at European level. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Climate protection: Voluntary labelling is the right way. There are good examples from Germany, where a valuable contribution to climate protection could be made with the voluntary identification of standby devices. One saves up to €30 in the year with a TV that is disabled for 20 hours. I think that this is the right approach and the right path just before the beginning of the Climate Change Conference in Bali. A small contribution, but important contribution to climate protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20404	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. I will now vote on Agenda items 4 and 5, then call on the urgent question and after the urgent question, as it will be a very long vote, which will certainly no longer allow the time to vote on Agenda items 1 to 3. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the 340 d.a. report. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. (E 43.) Finally, we shall vote on the 341 d.b. report. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 44.) I am now going to interrupt the session for two minutes and then call on the urgent question. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20478	I'll start the interrupted session again. [[15:00:38]] Request for urgent procedure Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the threat of billion debacle in climate protection for Austria (2492/J) President Mag. Barbara Prammer: We come to the urgent debate on the written question 2492/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20767	I declare Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek as the first applicant to justify the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. [[15:01:03]] Member Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek(Green): Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mr Umweltminister! Ladies and gentlemen! What's next year? – “2008”, yes, that’s a good answer. [[Call to the ÖVP:2008 is next year!]] – What will happen next year, 2008? In 2008, the Kyoto trade fair was launched. That means, starting at 1. January 2008 is measured hard. Every tonne of CO2, which emits too much from Austria, is measured. And every ton of CO2, which emits too much from Austria, will be fined with payment of a fee, with certificate payments. Mr Bundeskanzler, you see yourself as a competent person and, I believe, you are fully responsible for this question. And it is no longer a question that Austria is driving a ton heavy backpack with a tough rucksack full of CO2 and probably a heavy rucksack of euros to pay for it, which has just started in Bali at the hour – 10,000 people from all over the world, 130 countries and nations. I believe that from an Austrian point of view, it makes no sense to stand up at international conferences and act as if we were the absolute environmental model country, as you have already done in New York, and to point out that we have an excellent CO2 balance, but from an Austrian point of view, it would make a fundamental sense to recognise and address seriously the problems we have here in the Kyoto targeting process and no longer beautify. I think it is extremely unbelievable for a country when it occurs at international conferences and is trying, for example, to persuade emerging countries China and India to participate in reductions, perhaps to work to ratify America too, so that the important requirements that exist internationally can be achieved if you have such a tough backpack in your luggage and you will not be able to reduce it in good time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The songs you always sing here are known. The songs about the performances from the past will always be conjured, but that counts everything from 1. January 2008 no longer. ==References== January 2008 only counts what has been reduced, and what is not reduced must be paid, that costs. So the beautiful praises from the Minister of Economic Affairs or the Minister for the Environment, Austria is so far ahead in the ranking and we are so good anyway, I think we can save ourselves today, but we are really talking about whether the goal is still reachable, and especially if it is not possible how you want to finance this gap, this gap and how you want to explain to the Austrian population that you have not managed to reduce CO2 accordingly, and now have to pay. Where are we? Where are we today? – Austria is very, very far from the goal. It is a sad report that is to make that Kyoto has not yet reached international agreement that there has not been an international trend change. This will have to resolve and address the Bali conference. But Austria is one of the countries that has to be referred to the worst balance sheet within the European countries within the EU-15 – except Spain: Only Spain is even further away from the goal of reaching the Kyoto targets than the Republic of Austria. We are over a third, over 30 percentage points away from our target. To give this number a face, imagine the entire transport sector in Austria: Even if you could turn it off with a button, we would not have made these 31 percentage points yet. So even the provision of the entire transport sector would not be enough for us to meet our Kyoto target obligation, its compliance with 1. ==References====External links== There have now been several critical reports. I personally believe that there are better indications and more trustworthy evidence that the Austrian national team is coming to the final of the European Football Championship than that this German government will still achieve the Kyoto target by 2012 with the measures we have seen in recent years. This is justifiable, and I'll tell you exactly why. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We had already failed a climate strategy, which failed curiously, colossal. There was then a revision. Objectives and measures have not been achieved. The aim of what was done has not been achieved. [[Abg. Hornek: You don't even believe the Wabl up there on the gallery!]] There was then a second climate strategy. And all trends, every single trend that is in some way related to CO2 or climate protection, go in the wrong direction. Do you see, Mr President, any trend in transport: less traffic growth, less CO2 in transport? - No, I don't think so. Do you see any area that doesn't grow any more? Power consumption, energy consumption? The only thing we see is that we have more nuclear power, more fossil shares in electricity production, and that the overall share of renewable energy sources in Austria does not increase, but decreases. All trends are going in the wrong direction. Now there is a renowned climate scientist, economists who have pointed this out: Even if we manage to slow down this trend of growth, which is continuing in Austria unabated, and freeze at the level of 2005 – and this is already a great achievement if you do – we still have to expect allowances of €1.5 billion. And this is a very realistic prognosis and not a horror scenario. Let us think of a horror scenario, Mr Pröll: If the motto “business as usual” goes on this way, there is no reduction, there is no freezing, traffic, energy consumption, electricity consumption continues to grow, then in 2010, 2011, in total, we actually have to purchase 3 to 4 billion € in certificates from abroad. This is a real horror scenario. But let's stay with the realist, just freeze the growth. I believe, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, that in view of the fine bills you have always offered us in the Committee on the Environment, you should be called to a little more serious, namely here from the government bank. It is not an art to predict how to bring together 25: 9 plus 4 et cetera, et cetera, et cetera. That's your only excuse and your only unfounded answer to the criticism of the economist and climate scientist Schleicher, namely simply simply rowing numbers together and saying it's going to go out anyway. Of course, when you put numbers together, it goes out, just: The measures behind that, do they actually happen? Does anything pass in the area of transport growth? Does anything pass in the field of eco electricity, the expansion of renewable energy sources? – And you have to make the accusation that, as in recent years, you have repeatedly written a series of measures into the climate strategy, but not through any of them seriously. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would like to give a few examples. Yesterday, the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Finance, the Minister for the Environment, presented the “great” NOVA reform, which is intended to provide the great incentive for the purchase of low consumption cars. This model, as you presented it yesterday, is so watered that the car CO2 emissions under the line are not even reduced by half a percent. It is basically an irrigation on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day, the malus system is pushed out. That is, this nova reform, which you have announced to third in a huge show, will not bring anything for climate protection under the strict de facto. You have now concluded the financial compensatory negotiations, and now you are beginning to talk to the countries about 15a agreements, how you can increase the rate of old house renovation. In the climate strategy, you have prescribed an increase to at least 3 percent. Those who have ever conducted 15a negotiations know that this is an instrument that cannot be surpassed by difficulty, slowness, inefficiency. And the big question that everyone is asking is: Why didn't you just fixed it in the financial compensation to raise this recovery rate? This is one of the biggest potentials in the field of CO2, one of the biggest potentials for job creation – but your balance sheet in this area is very, very thin! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Another point you have announced: You claim in your climate strategy – one of the measures, Mr Broukal, where you would like to know how this is put together – that you want to convert a total of 100 000 households to renewable energy by 2010. Yes, how many households have it been so far? I don't think any more yet. [[Abg. Head: Are you claiming this or do you know it?]] They want to convert 100 000 households to renewable energy by 2010. [[Abg. Head: Aha, don't know!]] Until then, it's only two years. Now you should start to implement it. There is no program, there is no budget, there is no human resources. For example, there is a requirement in the climate strategy to carry out an energy check in all Austrian households by 2010. – How many households have you been, Mr. Kopf? Where is the budget for the budget? There's no one in my house yet. There was no one in the households of the 21 Green Members. Now I don't assume that the statistically Austrian is so distributed that we simply don't happen to find anyone. The truth is simple and simple: This program does not exist! There is no budget for this either, there is no staff for it! – And this can now be said about many points of the climate strategy. One point of the climate strategy, where it is quite, quite dramatic, and this is a sector where more than 30 000 jobs are now at risk – and that is one of the major points where it is still a matter of achieving the goal – is the innovation of the eco electricity law. They write in the climate strategy, at least there should be an optimization of the funding system, a long-term orientation of the framework conditions. - Okay. The draft we have now available is not a long-term orientation of the framework that would provide safety for the industry, but that is the smooth opposite. This is the last poison you can administer to this industry so that it is finally eradicated in Austria and dies. This allows you to dig the eco electricity industry in Austria. – These are not my words, but those are the words of the eco electricity industry itself. I can tell you the 30 companies that have put themselves behind the call in press conferences to make a real eco electricity law and not a so bad ball horning by now innovation to death. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] These are your measures, and these measures take place until the 1st century. January 2008 definitely not finished. And it goes on until the 1st century. January 2009 is not over. You have to expect this, Chancellor Gusenbauer, after you have already broken an election promise, namely, with regard to the Eurofighter procurement – probably already many times, but this is about it now, because this is about the same financial volume that we are talking about – that you have to pay for these Eurofighters, which represent an absurd acquisition for a second time. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Once only?]] Getting Only For the second time, you will no longer receive Eurofighters for this, but you will simply get papers, i.e. certificates on the international market, because you have not managed to invest so much in renewable energy and in an alternative transport system in Austria that we do not have to pay these 1.5 billion – and that is the minimum from which you have to start. Mr Bundeskanzler, I really want to know from you whether it does not lead you a little bit to have this money at your disposal then – for social policy, for the big educational reform and for environmental protection in Austria. This money will not be available to you for this purpose. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Mr Pröll, the free purchase strategy you have already chosen, must also be explained. It is already true – without the payment of the fees, without the certificates we need to buy in addition – that almost half a billion euros are fixed in the climate strategy for senseless purchases of certificates from abroad. What is this crazy strategy that in China and New Zealand wind farms are being built with Austrian tax money, where no single job is created here in the country, no cent of domestic value added? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What makes sense? And we import more atomic current. What makes all this sense, Mr. Federal Chancellor? This will not end with 2012. They can make a permanent order, because in Bali, further reduction obligations will be decided – hopefully – or a negotiating mandate will be set up. That means you can expect much higher payments from the year 2012. They also have to expect to do so, otherwise all of this will be done with global warming in the back and in the front. But I think I am saving you now and coming to the questions. Mr Bundeskanzler, do you share the opinion of the Minister for the Environment? The paper on which all this is written is patient. Skill Do you give a guarantee that from 2008 to 2012 Austria will actually be able to reduce, on average, the one third that we now issue too much? Do you give a personal guarantee for this? And if not, are you willing to shorten the party financing for ÖVP and SPÖ to the same extent? Is that an alternative proposal? Where is that budgeted? Where will you budget this? And how will you, above all, explain to the population that, because of this completely absurd measure, important measures in other areas – social policy, environmental policy, education policy – are not possible? Where is that budgeted? I would ask for a precise explanation. Do you think it makes sense – just as the Environment Minister's strategy is now – to invest in wind energy projects abroad without the purchase of certificates, which must be punished and thus not allow additional kilowatt hours from alternative energy in Austria, because there is simply no money for eco-electric production and at the same time more and more nuclear power is imported? Is that your opinion, too? How do you rate Stefan Schleicher's statements? Are you also of the opinion that this scientist is not in place? I mean, that was one of the worst exploits in all climate policy. – Are you actually of the opinion that someone who has clearly expected this very carefully, as your personal climate protection officer Andreas Wabl has referred to it, is not in place? Or is the Minister of the Environment missing because he is diffamating scientists who point this out? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Minister for the Environment Pröll believes that all of this will be done and that it will be so that no single cent will have to be paid. – This cannot be described as a real “head-in-the-sand-socket strategy”. And that's where I'd like to know from you, too: Do you share the criticism of your personal climate minister Andreas Wabl, who says that the Minister of the Environment is not responsible for the failure of his predecessors, that he does not correct them, but continues them, and that he is primarily self-marketing? This criticism was formulated on the occasion of the award of the "Green Ball" for the merits of climate protection by the Minister of the Environment to the oil multi BP. – Find You all right, Mr. Federal Chancellor? Would you like to be awarded climate protection prices to oil mults? Do you share this criticism? Do you also share the criticism of your own environmental spokesperson Petra Bayr, who meant that the inaction of the previous government and also of the responsible Minister Pröll had led to a discussion about possible Kyoto charges? What do you think of the performance of the Black and Blue Federal Government in the field of climate protection, which has ultimately led us to reach a third above the target by 31 percentage points? And what do you think if your personal climate protection officer says it is grossly negligent if you do not bind the housing funds to climate change targets, to higher recovery rates? What are all these contradictions in your own office? – This is where your personal climate protection officer sits and the environmental policy of the Minister for the Environment – and I would like to know about you in many points: What is your personal opinion about this? How do you stand about Stefan Schleicher's statements? Do you think it's correct or not? Another important question to which you have so far been guilty is the answer: How do you stand as a novel of the Ecostrom Act? Her environmental spokesperson says: Get away with the lid, this is absolutely necessary! – Yes, that’s true, that’s what the industry says, and that’s what everyone who’s involved in this matter is saying. Your energy speaker, on the other hand, rejects this completely. Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein submits a law that is not supposed to be agreed with SPÖ, which essentially kills the industry and which essentially shifts the cost burden to households – in favour of the paper industry. What is your opinion on this? What is your opinion on the forthcoming draft eco electricity law? I would also be interested in the following, Mr. Bundeskanzler: Are you in favour of finally including environmental aspects in the future tax reform, or are you still of the opinion that any ecologisation of the tax system is only to the detriment of the Austrian location? There is now no longer any country in Europe that has no serious discussion about ecologizing the tax system. We have been slipping into the middle field after the last OECD data. We're not at Weitem a country that would make a single way. On the contrary: We would find a follow-up to this if, in the next tax reform, we were to undertake a strong relief from the work factor and finally an ecologisation of resource consumption. Personally, indicate that you are very, very happy to be a driving association with your personal climate protection officer, namely with the Toyota Hybrid. The answer you gave me, however, has brought another key statement, namely that you are driving five times as much with the Audi A8 and that by the way you are very happy to drive the helicopter. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Gusenbauer: Fliegen!]] Fly. Good. – And I really find that indispensable. This is certainly not an environmentally friendly transport. I believe that the times, when you saw a status symbol in a thick car or a helicopter, are over, that this should actually be reserved for the men of the past and that nothing has been lost among the men of the present.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e20970	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor has spoken. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor. [[15:20:51]] Federal Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer Madam President! Dear colleagues from the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think this is a good opportunity now that the Bali Conference is beginning to hold a debate here in the Austrian Parliament on the state of Austrian climate protection policy, on the measures the Federal Government intends to take, and on how we can achieve the objectives set together. Perhaps we should start by saying where Austria is, as far as its environmental standards are concerned in general, because in the debate Austria is one of the most efficient economies in Europe, which is one of the most efficient in terms of the use of CO2 in terms of value added. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can of course add that we are only in fourth place. However, one must also say that the three countries, which are even more efficient in this respect, namely Switzerland, Sweden and France, have a high share of nuclear power, and clearly the nuclear power is CO2-emission-reducing. That is to say, only states using nuclear power are better off than Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This has decided the population, not the SPÖ!]] [[Abg. Grillich: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek) Nevertheless we are good!]] I think that was a point of entry into the debate, because otherwise the impression would be that Austria would be a particularly huge environmental pollution in the European comparison – which is not true! The second preliminary remark to be made is: Austria has already had a high standard at the time of the Kyoto goals and has set itself very, very ambitious targets. This also distinguishes Austria from other countries! Let me give you an example: Sweden has set itself a zero reduction target at this time. And it's clear that if you set a zero reduction target and then you're above it, then you're obviously less far from reaching the goal than a country like Austria, which has set a very ambitious goal. – This should also be taken into account in this debate. Ladies and gentlemen, all these are not excuses, but they are facts – facts that should also play a role in this debate! Now, if we are talking about climate protection and our achievement of our goals, we should make it clear right from the outset what our biggest problem is: Our biggest problem is the fact that since 1990, the CO2 emissions from transport have increased by 91 percent in Austria. This is really the core of our problem! [[Abg. Sburny: That's why we're building more and more motorways?]] To this end, I can tell you: We must not ignore geopolitical developments. So to do as if this has to do with the forced highway construction is a somewhat cheap process. [[Abg. Sburny: But you can expand the track!]] Let us know – and these are facts! – that by 1989 Austria had exclusively a north-south transit. Since the fall of the Berlin Wall we have to an enormous extent also through Austria an East-West transit, which clearly has led to a multiple increase in traffic and which clearly affects Austria most as the main transit country of Europe. The second fact, which is to be mentioned, is the fact that there is no country throughout Europe that is affected by tank tourism as it is in Austria, because despite the increases in mineral oil tax, the diesel and petrol price in Austria is still cheaper than in Germany, for example. The third fact that you have to mention is – and this is also a self-critical remark that is essentially addressed to everyone – that the many technological changes, especially in the automotive sector, which led to a lower fuel requirement, were compensated for by the fact that many people decided not to reduce fuel consumption, but to buy the next larger and stronger car. And thus essentially individual fuel consumption has remained the same, although technological progress would have made it possible to reduce consumption. I am therefore saying this at the beginning of my remarks so that the debate takes place in the right dimension when we talk about the climate strategy of the Austrian Federal Government. I am not the defender of my Environment Minister's duty, but on this question, namely the development of transport since 1989, he cannot really be blamed. [[Oh, by the greens.]] Here are other factors on the table that we have to deal with. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, what is the content basis on which the Austrian Federal Government wants to address this question? The first and most important area is certainly the measures we have and still have to take in the field of transport. A first step – because you have addressed environmental taxes – was that we have carried out a substantial increase in mineral oil tax in this year and that the federal resources, which result, are used as a contribution to the donation of the climate and energy funds. This is the fund that is primarily used to promote technological renewals in order to strengthen energy efficiency in Austria. The funds available to countries and municipalities from this increase in mineral oil tax are to be used for the expansion of public transport, because this is one of the most cost-effective ways of reducing CO2 emissions from transport. - That's the first package. The second package, which has a perspective in this context, is the agreement reached in the field of NOVA, where there should be a clear differentiation according to the CO2 consumption of the different vehicles, in order to indicate also a clear orientation, which vehicles will be cheaper in the future and which vehicles will be more expensive in the future. In addition, the Austrian Federal Government has decided on an investment programme to attract public transport not only in the area of public transport, but also in the field of long-distance transport, by going to modernisation and expansion of the Austrian rail network from the €11 billion available for additional infrastructure expenditure during this legislative period, because only if we are able to produce high-performance alternatives on rail will we be able to ensure a shift in freight transport or at least a decrease in the increase in freight transport. The main issue in the field of transport will certainly be with and in the European Union, namely to change the European Union's completely absurd road cost directive in the future, because so far, the more trucks on our motorways, the more we are prompted to demand low tolls. We think this is completely wrong, because it contradicts the objectives of climate protection! Therefore, we want to include all environmental costs in the adoption of a new road cost directive so that we can demand higher tolls, which also correspond to costs. By the way, this is something to be negotiated in 2008. And I am very pleased if this is a subject which is not just a matter of the Federal Government, but where the entire Austrian Parliament is behind the central ecological demands for a reform of the Road Costs Directive. That would help us together. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Madam President Glawischnig pointed out that everyone who has already negotiated Article 15a agreements knows how tough this is. I would like to invite you to work with us here. It is clear that we are just ahead of completion of the package in terms of housing development. Indeed, it was an integral part of the financial compensation negotiations that in future housing funds will be made available as a priority, not just 3 percent, for the renovation of old buildings. And we need to know that most of the buildings in Austria, 50 percent, were built between 1945 and 1970, when it came to the reconstruction of our country, and obviously because there are buildings and houses at all, and questions of insulation and thermal quality are not in the foreground. Now it is about bringing this old house stock at least to state-of-the-art isolation so that the energy efficiency of our buildings is achieved. Therefore, in the future, housing development will essentially consist of promoting the renovation of old buildings and a clear prioritisation of passive and low energy standards for the new buildings, because the second... – No, that will come before 2015. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 2015! That's too late for Kyoto!]] Let yourself be positively surprised, you will receive the relevant templates in Parliament! – This is the second great area in which changes have taken place. In addition to the transport sector, it is about increasing energy efficiency, especially in space heating. There are also a number of efficiency improvements in energy production, especially in the area of heat and power, in the area of district heating, where we still have additional potentials that we can “lift” together. In such a debate, it must also be noted who has behaved effectively in recent years: In recent years, Austrian industry has behaved decisively, which has worked very well in terms of investment in the reduction of CO2 emissions. And if you compare Austrian industry with industry in other countries, you have to say that there have been significant investments. The point is: We are so interested in this climate strategy, which is on several legs, because all that we do not save in the field of transport and space heating is to feel our industry as a burden. We're not interested in that. We do not want the deindustrialisation of Austria, nor do we want our businesses to decide and say, okay, if I want to invest randomly, I have to go somewhere to Eastern Europe or Eastern Europe, where there is a lower burden on CO2 certificates. – No, it should not be the ecological quality and target orientation, but it should be crucial that there be good location conditions in Austria. This includes a significant reduction in CO2 emissions from transport and space heating, so that industry does not have any additional burden. All of this, as you know, is set out in the climate strategy of the Austrian Federal Government, which we discussed at a first climate summit in which there were a number of interesting proposals. We have not seen this as a one-time event in which the NGOs and all those involved come together, but that is work in progress, a permanent establishment where we ask in a year: How much have we gone on? What are new ideas and new measures that we want to put together so that we can achieve step by step the ambitious objective planned for Kyoto? It is true that the European Union has set itself an ambitious goal. We will achieve this overall objective, and Austria – that is our objective – will not have to make any penalty payments. Therefore, our measures are based on the measures I have just described and, at the same time, on the purchase of certificates for ecologically meaningful measures outside Austria. [[Calls to the Greens.]] This is a strategy that takes place in accordance with the following principle: economic efficiency in achieving the best possible climate protection and environmental standards. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: What is economically efficient...?]] Madam President, there are also a number of measures to be taken to reduce CO2 emissions which are unfortunately not as far as economic efficiency is concerned today. Because it makes a difference whether you need to use 500 € to save a tonne of CO2 20, 30, 35 or 500 €. You have to play this difference once you have to play piano when someone has to pay at the end of the day. Therefore, there is a wealth of measures that one can theoretically put in place, but if one proceeds with reason and says that one must also look at the fact that one can afford this climate change policy, then one sets out those measures which are also economically most efficient. Against this background, Madam President Prammer, I am willing to address the questions raised by the President-in-Office of the Council, even though I have been allowed to say that a large part of the questions concern my personal opinion on individual matters and that is normally not the subject of execution. But since we are already so cozy together, I am willing to comment on the questions. Questions 1 and 4: Austria has set itself ambitious targets, namely to reduce CO2 emissions by 13 percent by 2012. The EU is known to have set itself a target of minus 8 percent. However, the level of CO2 emissions has not only not been stabilised, it has increased in the trend since 1990. We are now faced with the problem that in the period 2008 to 2012 the wrong amount must be paid to our national Kyoto target through the purchase of emission certificates. The purchase is financed by budget resources. We are currently planning to purchase a total of 45 million tonnes of CO2 emissions certificates by 2012. In 2005, the figure was around 25 million tonnes of CO2. From today's point of view, the amount of the budgetary burden cannot be determined precisely for the following two reasons: Just as we cannot predict exchange rates or oil prices, it is impossible to determine the price you will have to pay for these certificates. However, the presumption is that prices will rise at the end of the first Kyoto period rather than fall. In addition, it is not precisely possible to predict the impact of the measures taken and to be taken by the Federal Government in terms of actual CO2 reduction. We will therefore do everything to minimise the budgetary burden arising from the extremely ambitious commitment entered into by Austria. Clearly, our top priority is climate protection measures in the country and not abroad, but I would like to stress that the CDM projects in particular can make an important contribution to technology transfer in poor countries and that technology transfer is one of the key elements of achieving global climate change targets. I therefore believe that domestic climate change measures are a priority, because they not only create domestic value added and jobs, but also create the necessary technological change. The promotion of environmental technologies is essential, including to strengthen competitiveness. On question 2: Currently, €399 million are fixed in the Federal Budget for the purchase of JI/CDM certificates. Before the amendment, there were still 319 million. Question 3: The Austrian climate strategy aims to achieve the majority of emission reductions through domestic action. In addition, however, it is of course also useful to support committed climate protection measures in other countries, not only to facilitate our goal achievement in Austria, but also to speed up the transfer of valuable climate protection technologies. It is precisely the example of China, where new coal-fired power plants are being put into operation almost weekly, that shows us the sense of this mechanism. The Clean Development Mechanism thus has an enormously important developmental component. It's not a question of whether or not it's a question of both. We must also implement both strategies using all synergies accordingly. The example of wind power can also be referred to within Austria as a very successful development, it is assumed that only a few years ago eco-electric production was started in a larger style. Questions 5, 6, 7 and 8: Professor Schleicher is a national and internationally recognised expert, whom I have nominated due to his great reputation in the expert advisory board of the Climate Change Fund. He does excellent work in this fund and together with the other three experts is a guarantee that the most targeted projects, i.e. those that have the highest CO2 reduction potential per euro, will be promoted. In particular, the Climate Fund is the most important instrument for increasing energy efficiency. On the question 9: CO2 emissions have increased by 18 per cent since 1990, particularly in the last seven years, with the increase in traffic, plus 91 per cent, which has played the greatest role, as I have already said. A climate strategy was drawn up in 2002; however, the evaluation of the strategy carried out in 2005 and 2006 showed that the previous impact of measures and the development of emissions would not have made it possible to achieve the Kyoto target by 2004. On the basis of extensive consultations and work, with the participation of the ministries concerned, the countries, the interest groups and the environmental NGOs, it was adopted on 21 December. A new, adapted climate strategy was adopted in March 2007. It will be further developed in a permanent discussion. Question 10: Climate protection officer Andreas Wabl pointed to the enormous potential for CO2 savings in the field of space heat. In the context of the financial compensatory negotiations, we agreed to adopt an Article 15a agreement by summer 2008 for the purpose of promoting housing for climate protection. I think we should conclude these negotiations as soon as possible and, as already reported, we are on the right track. On the question 11: One thing before: I am in favour of making the best use of the financial resources available. Our two key approaches to the revision of the Ecostrom Act are energy efficiency and, as in the Council of Ministers' presentation of the 11th century. ==References====External links== This means that households are not to be taxed extra. For distribution justice: The Council of Ministers' presentation of Eisenstadt this year states that the further continuous expansion of eco electricity should be ensured, taking into account the distribution of supply – consumers, industry, industry. We are therefore for the maintenance of the counter-point fee. The cover of € 17 million – i.e. additional funding to the € 300 million per year – must certainly be increased. The lid should not prevent an efficient plant from being built because the funding amount of the year has already been exhausted. Question 12: I consider the ecologisation of the NOVA to be a further step towards ecologizing the tax system. It is important that the surplus revenue flows exclusively into the climate and energy funds. How high the revenue will be can still not be estimated because you do not know the desired steering effect. The higher the steering effect, the better for the environment, the lower the revenue available to the climate fund. On the question 13: First, it should be noted that, in March 2007, the EU set itself the binding objective of reaching a ten percent share of biofuels in the total EU transport-related fuel and diesel consumption in each Member State by 2020, provided that production is sustainable. Biofuels of the second generation are available and the fuel quality directive is amended accordingly in order to allow for appropriate mixing conditions. The release of CO2 in the consumption of biofuels, especially biodiesel, is significantly lower than in fossil diesel. However, a broader consideration must be made. The European Union would also depend on imports of vegetable oils when the oilseeds are doubled. This creates incentives to use or to create areas of cultivation for energy sources, especially in South-East Asia and Central and South America. Biofuels have been used to correct greenhouse emissions down, but the remaining environmental balance is more unfavourable on a global scale, due to the use of fires, monocultures and excessive fertilizers in most of the substances in question than fossil fuels. In addition, serious social consequences occur, especially in the poorest parts of the world – not with us, but in the poorest parts of the world – and the resulting dramaticly increased food prices are, of course, primarily concerned with socially weak and poorer countries. It is therefore necessary to avoid these negative consequences. Question 14: Economists have long advocated restructuring the tax and tax system, gradually increasing the burden on non-renewable natural resources, and at the same time reducing the burden of labour, which is already heavily burdened in Austria in the international comparison. An increase in eco-taxes is therefore only to be accepted if, at the same time, small and medium-sized incomes are not taxed or, according to the proposal of individual economists, are relieved. However, we are in principle opposed to raising taxes on heating costs. Oil and natural gas prices have already increased sharply and a huge burden on consumers. So we have in the course of raising the mineral oil tax of 3 and 5 cents per 2. At the same time, this year the pendler rate increases by 10 percent in order to avoid negative social consequences. Question 15: Austria acts as a member of the European Union in this area. In March 2007, the European Council decided that the EU, provided that international agreements were also concluded with the other developed countries and the advanced developing countries, would be committed to a 30% reduction in greenhouse gases compared to the 1990 levels. However, regardless of whether it comes to such an agreement, the EU commits itself to such a 20 percent reduction. Austria is, of course, committed to these goals. In order to share these reduction targets among Member States, the European Commission will present proposals at the end of January 2008, based on economic and demographic factors. Questions 16 and 17: The Toyota Prius Hybrid is available to all employees of the Federal Chancellery and also to me. Step by step, the Federal Chancellery's fleet is converted to hybrid vehicles. As far as helicopter flights are concerned, I have made four flights for reasons of time saving. This did not result in any additional CO2 emissions, since it was anyway necessary flights to preserve the pilot's licence. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21206	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mrs Lichtenecker has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[15:48:50]] Deputies Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker (Green): Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bundeskanzler, if you listen here, you don't know what you're talking about. Their statements actually fall into the category “Dives and Tarns. ” I think it is something that Minister Darabos needs in his maneuvers, but here in Austria and in climate policy we need clear analysis, courageous strategies and offensive action. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this respect, the statements regarding the anthems of praise in Austria are already a special treat. Mr Bundeskanzler, the Commission will not be interested in what They tell you about the past, but she looks at what fact is what the numbers are. After that, it will have to be counted and paid. Let us take a closer look at the facts. As a government, they have set themselves targets, for example, to increase energy productivity by 5 percent by 2010. What happened? - She's getting worse! First record of action. They have set themselves the goal of covering 80 percent of total electricity consumption by renewable energy in 2010. What do we have now? – We are less than 60 percent, and we see no tendency to get better. In general, we have an increase in electricity consumption which is above the European average. And if you are already considering how great we are in terms of CO2 emissions in relation to GDP, I can only tell you: Look If you are looking at CO2 emissions per capita, we are in the normal EU funds and are in no way pioneers! [[Abg. Head: Should we be ashamed of economic performance?- Oh, my God!]] Mr Kopf, you in the economy must look at how energy intensity develops! Energy intensity is worsening and is currently above 1990 values. All these are signals that it's going in the wrong direction, and so it can't go on. All that we now have in the face of threatening criminal payments, in inconsistent measures, Mr Bundeskanzler, is a major problem. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll]] It is not only a major environmental damage that threatens us here, it is also economic stupid. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this respect, it is much more reasonable to take the money in hand and invest it here in Austria in energy efficiency and in renewable energies. And if you already say that Austria has set very ambitious goals, then compare them with other countries! [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's right, too!]] Mr Federal Minister, if you say that is true, I also tell you that we bear responsibility [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Well, isn't it? Is it true or is it not?- Oh, my God!]] We have been one of the main issuers in recent years and decades; the main sufferers and the victims of climate change will be the poorest and the poor regions. In this respect, it is our duty and responsibility to stand here and work on the reduction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] As you have also referred to the field of social security and distribution justice: What are we heading for, Mr. Federal Chancellor? – We have constantly rising prices in the energy sector. Look at the energy price index! It has increased by 7.7% from October 2006 to this year – an enormous value. [[Abg. Head: You always wanted that!]] We're going back to winter now, and what are we going to have? – We have a million people in our country who are living in the area of poverty risk and who are dependent on heating costs. And now I'm asking: You, as a Social Democratic Chancellor, are looking at this? – It is a shame not to make any real progress in energy policy here in order to stabilise prices! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Dr. Gusenbauer! They have taken place as “people’s chancellors”, but you will still have to prove that You actually deserve this title. A August opinion poll showed that 78 percent of the population in Austria feel massively threatened by climate change. – You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have also said that you want to make your contribution, the question is: Does politics provide the framework conditions so that people can actually act? Mr Bundeskanzler, take seriously the concerns of the Austrians on this question, because it is not just a question of money, it is also a question of responsibility and the duty you have here! They have today addressed the climate summit as an ongoing institution and what is going to happen. ==References== April 2007 there was the great climate summit, many big words, but I tell you that until today, with the strategy you're driving here, we don't have a gram of CO2 less! An important point of which I now come to speak was the Ecopower Act. Everyone said this must be changed, two of them are sitting here on the government bank: Minister Pröll – he has announced great things – German chancellor Gusenbauer and many of the rulers from the countries. And what did we get? – We have got a law that has prompted entrepreneurs to say in this sector: There was the old one even better; it is a shame to have to work with this one! [[Abg. Grill: The law is coming!]] If you now call on the efficiency, Mr. Bundeskanzler, then look at them: The Energy Agency has evaluated and clearly established that the benefits are three times as high as the costs, so it is wise to invest here, and not apparently to go forward for all one step – again a maneuver according to the motto “tarning and sluggishing” – but, on the contrary, to leave everything in the old and partly even worse. It can't be! If you're talking about distribution justice in the Ecostrom Act, we should also talk about that nothing will be taken in to you now. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Where in?]] – A bluehouse burning concerns a very small part of the industry, and experts say it will probably affect one, two companies that benefit from it. - It can't be! They set a goal that has already been reached de facto! An example – Mr Bundeskanzler, you should be better informed about climate change and not about your colleague Pröll –: The objective here is to provide 100 MW of increase by the biomass by 2015; this is calculated to be almost 15 MW per year. – 15 MW! Mr Grillitsch, as an expert in the field, you must confirm that this is ridiculous! 15 MW has only the Timelkam power plant! So there are many, many points, for example, this ridiculous increase from 17 to 21. – Mr Bundeskanzler! With this design we miss a lot! They have also addressed transport policy – this is a classic, where nothing goes on in this country at all –: With this most increase, nothing will move as you would have had to take a bigger step! If you are talking about the cost truthfulness of the Road Costs Directive, then the question is: Why did you not see that this is on the agenda of the next EU Presidency, and why do you not see that there are, at last, appropriate comprehensive tolls in the truck transport sector, as they have now been introduced into the Netherlands? – These are many, many examples, where we painfully miss measures on your part, Mr. Federal Chancellor, for which you have the right to stand. We also believe that you bear the political responsibility that the Climate Fund is not used as a foundry can, as it is now planned. For example, Minister Bartenstein looked at the fact that the AWS can pay a climate bonus from this fund, which is ultimately nothing but a self-service shop and a completely incorrect approach when talking about climate protection measures that should be really efficient. [[Abg. Zweytick: Well, well, well!]] We need the energy transition in the sense of taxpayers, environmental protection and distribution justice. Federal Chancellor! They have the responsibility to do so. The course has to be set now! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] In the end, They now put on the courage and the backbone to actually pursue a consistent strategy here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21384	The next speaker is Mr Kurt Eder. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please. [[15:59:17]] Member Kurt Eder(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I understand, of course, that the Greens speak very emotionally, very emphatically and very emphatically on this issue, because in the end this is their so-called core competence. It is clear that this is happening in this form. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You from the OMV...! They do not stand for renewable energy!]] In fact, I would not have to add anything to what the Chancellor of the Federal Republic has given as an answer, because he has referred to all the issues very precisely, emotionally and on the basis of facts. [[Abg. Sburny: Leave it!]] Dear Ladies and gentlemen, we come briefly to the Ecostrom Act and its novel. It must be said clearly and clearly: What they get, the others have to pay. So we need a certain – including social – balance. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How much does the OMV pay...?]] If you say you should invest here, well, then you should invest here, but I give you one thing to think about: If the price of crude oil is 100 dollars and these eco-electric systems are still not expected to be a significant part of the economy, one must already ask whether one should not even look at the efficiency here and see things more differentiated. There are, of course, wind power plants that are already on their own, but there are major problems in other areas, such as biomass, for example. We are in the process of tackling these problems, because they need to be solved. It is also about the existence of those who have invested at a time when they have not been able to predict how much biomass prices will rise. As here is so loosely spoken of by the paper industry and the Laugenstromulation: The prices of wood have increased by up to 56 per cent due to the policy made, Mrs Glawischnig! – The paper industry is no longer investing in these high wood prices, but there we have hundreds and hundreds of workers and employees who fear their jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The wood does not belong to the paper industry alone!]] And that is why we have considered – whether it is coming, you don't know at all – whether you should not at least give an investment support to new plants in the field of liquefying. But it is not as yet, as was claimed here, that this is already happening, but one is still considering. Ladies and gentlemen! I can only thank the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany: We have to budget our money, and we have to use the euro where we can achieve optimal CO2 savings. – Unfortunately, this is not the case with the Ecostrom Act. I would just like to present you with one or two figures. The Ökostromgesetz provides a savings of 3 million tonnes of CO2 for €300 million annually. A pipeline development law dealing with district heating lines dealing with gas discharges from biogas plants directly in natural gas pipelines would, for example, be € 65 million annually – note the ratio: €300 million per year compared with €65 million – a savings of 3.4 million tonnes of CO2. That's where you're wondering: Where do we set priorities? – Of course, it has to be put in the direction of the development law promotion. For this we are happy to have, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There's a single facility!]] These are priorities that bring CO2 savings, and not any things that are so loosely put into space here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, because it is my concern to make a comment in the direction of biofuels. We must be clear as follows: To produce 1 litre of biofuel, you need 4 500 litres of water alone to pour the plants. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Yes, the ones then...!]] – Considering the countries in which these plants are grown, consider whether water scarcity will be a worse problem than fuel scarcity. – I’m just saying that you have to think about it too. Or: A filling of Rapsmethylesther corresponds to about the quantity of grain you need to feed an adult person for a year. – That too will have to be considered. Ladies and gentlemen, let me make another comment, which is at my heart today: Given the fact that I have been a member of the House for 20 years now, and I think that 20 years of activity here is a nice, round number, I have been thinking of doing something else, and by the end of this year I will relinquish my mandate. When I think about these years, I am happy that during this time I have been able to contribute a lot personally to deciding on important things; for example, under Minister of Economic Affairs, we have lifted the ASFINAG from baptism – a difficult, but a solved task – the Federal Property Society, Schönbrunn and many other things I was able to work with as a building speaker at the time. I was able to do so at the time, because I was standing with a leg in the economy and knew exactly what I was talking about when one had a department of a ministry and turned into an economic part. That is why I can only recommend this in connection with the discussions and debates that have taken place in the House or outside the House, the debate in Parliament and the profession. I've seen my job here in the house as a vocation. I was elected to my constituency of Floridsdorf/Donaustadt and was always proud to work with a stand in the economy and industry to see the people and their employment, their work – and not only the political glasses, which are often put on here in the house. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to give advice – I have heard many farewells in these 20 years; some Members have given advice, I do not want to – but I would like to say: We should build as few obstacles as possible to those people in Parliament who want to do their work in politics, which is not always very easy. Let us not build up obstacles, but remove the obstacles! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Disclosure is no obstacle!]] – If we do, we will continue to have a good mixture of parliamentarians and a good reflection of the Austrian population here in Parliament. In this sense, I wish you all the best and a successful further work!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21526	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Kurt! This applause has shown: We all thank you for the good cooperation and cooperation and the many long years here in the house, and we wish you all the best for the future. Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[16:06:57]] Member of Parliament Karlheinz Kopf (ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I'd like to say a word to you, dear Kurt: I would like to begin by thanking you first of all for the really excellent, serious, collegial and, above all, always hand-beat-quality cooperation as your Visavis as an energy speaker of the ÖVP. We were not always of an opinion – although very often; our two origins from the economy certainly gave us a similar opinion on some of them – but we have always found a way relatively quickly. If you know where the other borders are, what you can demand them and what is not and is willing to accept them, you will usually find solutions. That is why we have both tried to do so, I would like to thank you very much and wish you all the best for the future. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: We must be allowed to do it publicly!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The questioning Eva Glavischnig has begun her speech on the finding that it makes no sense to stress constantly how good we are. . I mean, every serious plan of action that we are considering should begin with an analysis of the situation. [[Abg. Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek: The Commission will not be interested in this!]] – This should not prevent us from analysing the situation, and we do. This is just a headline: As Mr Bundeskanzler has already said, we are in fourth place with CO2 efficiency, as measured by gross domestic product. – I would not like to be ashamed, Mrs Lichtenecker, of the high economic performance we achieve per capita – the measurement of CO2 efficiency per capita is inconvenient. The only meaningful number of comparisons with which to measure CO2 emissions is probably the country's economic performance, and there we are Europe's peak. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker:... CO2 emissions!]] – Don’t talk that away! Nevertheless, I say: We have agreed to the Kyoto Protocol, and we have also taken on a damn high commitment under the Protocol. – Yes, it is true: We have, as unfortunately many other countries too, there are only a few exceptions, from this goal a lot away. There are also some areas of problem. We are good at some topics, but there are a few areas in which we have problems. – This too is part of the analysis, not a question. We have also put in place many measures: An interim balance also belongs to the serious treatment of a problem area. To the Ecostrom Act, which you constantly criticise, we stood at 0.7 percent ecostrom in 2002. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Of course!]] We are now at 8 percent through the eco electricity law that you criticised. The first eco electricity law, which you so praised, had a target of 4 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: The first one was great! You just destroyed it!]] Within a year and a half, we have clearly exceeded that. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Because society was willing to do something!]] So don't keep talking about this law being bad. This law has overcrowded the target of 3 million tonnes of CO2 alone by the eco-electric regime through which subsidies are saved, and the novelle will save another million tonnes. [[Calls for Greens]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's why you broke it!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: No, never!]] The Immission Protection Act Air, the traffic impact, the increase in mineral oil tax, now the NOVA discharge, the use of biofuels, the climate and energy funds: The interim balance can be seen, but it is not enough yet. What did we do? . The EIA has recently introduced the most comprehensive climate paper of all parties here in the National Council with a resolution, and it will soon be discussed in the Environment Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: You don't believe that!]] But what happens? Madam President Glawischnig announced at the last meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that it would coordinate a five-party proposal for climate protection. [[Abg. Hornek: Hot air!]] Mrs Colleague, I am still waiting for your initiative, and I hope that you will take our request on the basis – he is really the most extensive of all! – and like to construct a five-party initiative from it. But you've been sluggish for months! We agreed. Where's your initiative? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You need the greens to sit down! In the coalition you need a mediation! I'd like to go with you in pair therapy with the SPÖ!]] I understand: You can understand opposition as a fundamental opposition or as a constructive opposition. I have not heard a single proposal in your entire speech, including Mr Lichtenecker. I have only heard criticism in both speeches, but not a single proposal. That is why I understand that you did not make a urgent request, because you should have applied for something. You have just asked one question, with many questions and many allegations and accusations in the Preamble, but not one proposal. Did you not think of anyone? [[Abg. Oils: A tired polemic!]] I really regret that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to address the matter in concrete terms: Our 21-point programme, as the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has expressed very clearly, in fact, we are not far apart - sets very clear priorities. [[Abg. Sburny: Must have hit you hard! He was good!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: I say yes: I like to do couple therapy with you!]] The whole programme must begin in terms of energy saving, efficiency improvement and housing promotion. It is the right approach in the Article-15a agreement to go with the countries towards priority transfer of thermal renovation and new construction in conjunction with the construction regulations towards passive and low energy standards. Take the example of Vorarlberg, who has already implemented the passive energy standard – recently in a project – in large-volume rental housing. This is the way we want to go with the countries. For the use of renewable energy sources: We will be able to increase the share of over 20 percent to 45 percent by 2020. [[The ironic hustle and bustle of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] To the contribution of the Ecostrom Act – I have already told you, you do not want to hear it –: [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is better than science fiction!]] We have come in a few years from less than 1 percent to 8 percent. This is the best proof that we will also achieve the second goal that we have set ourselves, namely to reach 15 percent, in a few years. The success of the first period of the Ecostrom Act gives the rightful prospect – not only hope, but prospect – that we will do the same. A few words on this highly criticised JI/CDM programme – that is, on investments abroad. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It is about the extent of the measures!]] The Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has also mentioned this perfectly: If we are trying to protect climate, if we are trying to achieve energy efficiency, we must also strive for the efficiency of the funds used. We must try to achieve as much CO2 reduction as possible with every euro we use. There are countries that are so much worse in their standard that, as climate stress and global warming are not a national problem, it makes sense to invest in these countries, to improve the ecological situation there and a part of our programme – of course not our entire programme! – to point out that in these countries with much greater efficiency of the money spent than we could ever do at home from our high level, we are making a contribution, apart from the fact that it is also a very useful contribution to development cooperation with these countries in order to get them out of their poverty.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21873	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[16:16:00]] Member of the Commission. Norbert Hofer(FPÖ): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I am also entitled to a sentence on the colloquium. tell Eder to say: You have been here in the House for 20 years – I am, on the other hand, to say it with Karl May, a “green horn” here in the house and therefore could not get to know you as thoroughly as most other colleagues. But just as I met you, you are a very pleasant and competent interlocutor who, of course, represents his interests and his policy. I wish you your future, which you don't have to worry about, as I hear, all good. [[Congratulations with FPÖ, SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Mr Pröll just recently said that we are on the right path in terms of climate protection and that the impact is now being increased. I told him two days ago that I'd rather make the comparison with a electricity: We are swimming against the electricity in questions of climate protection. Although the impact rate is increased, the current is still driving us away, because the difference to the goal we want to achieve is increasing. I don't want to say it's going down the stream, but we're still driving downstream, and I very much wish we could eventually reach a hit number that allows us to come to the source. There's still a lot to do. The JI/CDM program has been mentioned, €360 million will be invested. It's right: Whether we invest in windwheels in Austria or in China, India or Bali – I do not know if there are any windwheels there – it is irrelevant for climate protection. However, it is not irrelevant for us, for our economy, because, indeed, funds invested in Austria also ensure that jobs are created here, that know-how arises that this money in Austria also bears sustainable fruit – in order to try a word from the forestry industry again. These investments abroad expire after this period, and then we have to invest again in order to achieve our climate change targets. Therefore, we are in favour of investing as much as possible in Austria so that we achieve the following important objective: another step towards energy autonomy. For Austria, energy autonomy means that domestic sources are used. This is not nuclear power in Austria, these are not fossil energy sources, which are only available to a very modest extent, but these are hydropower, wind power, geothermal energy, biomass, solar power. – These are the sources we can use in Austria. Karlheinz Kopf has addressed the eco electricity law. It's right: The Ecostrom Act – the first! – was a good law. It was the last novel that we criticise, because we believe that, including all the figures, we have done a bear service to the energy autonomy and the eco electricity. We therefore need an eco electricity law, which is very much in line with the German EEG. The German EEG is a success story that has been taken over by many countries. I know it is not always given so much faith to the Merit Order effect on the Leipziger Strombörse, because you say if you had produced electricity from other energy sources, then the electricity price would have also fallen. Nevertheless, fact is: The reduction in electricity prices is more than investment under the German EEG. And that is why we are called upon to adopt this model also in Austria, with the improvements that are now being discussed in Germany, so that we can also support small wind turbines that can be mounted on the house. A thermal rehabilitation offensive: This is also something we urgently need, because there is an old house and old house stock in Austria, which presents us with great challenges. If one wanted to reorganise this entire stock in order to bring it to a low energy standard, to passive standard, one would have to invest €80 billion. That's a lot of money. However, we still have to deal with this task and, in the case of housing development, we have to move towards a shift towards thermal renovation. More funds need to be made available, simply because the term “social housing” has changed considerably. Social housing, which used to be – the German Chancellor has been active in SPÖ for a very long time and will confirm this – the possibility of coming to a house or an apartment in a favourable way. It's moving now. It is now no longer the purchase costs that represent the problem, but the operating costs. I have often experienced with older people that they are using a cooperative apartment, which can afford it, but then I am sorry about the high operating costs. There are – I can say that from my own country – many cooperative apartments that are heated with electric convectors. This costs a fortune, which a minimum pensioner can hardly afford. That is why we have to put up with it and reduce the operating costs for social housing. And this only happens if you build apartments that are so insulated that people don't have to spend so much money on heating costs. Transport is certainly the most difficult area. It is a real challenge, but we still have to deal with it. Many of you like to ride by train and may have a comparison of what it looks like in other countries, such as France or Germany. Although it is pleasant in Austria, the creator goes through with the newspapers and you get something to drink, but you are comparatively slow on the road. There's still a lot we can do. There is a possibility of making a decision with the counterparts: either the shuttle fee or an annual public transport ticket. I am convinced that many commuters would use the annual ticket. If this bonus malus system comes now, then I am very much for the bonus – at the malus I am a little skeptical. I think there are already very high loads in the field of individual transport. I would be much stronger at the bonus than I am now, and I would insist, above all, that the Federation behaves exemplaryly in its service fleet that one really tries not only in the Federal Chancellor's Office, but throughout the public sector, to use a service fleet that then has no malus to pay, but can take advantage of the bonus. A few days ago, the Minister for the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection took up the subject of environmental tax reform. Federal Minister! If there is, in fact, an honest environmental tax reform, which is non-profit-making, which is not just a burden – because it has been increased in the case of mineral oil tax, but labour costs have not fallen during this period – then you will certainly have a broad majority behind this House, not only those of the government parties. But only if you really do. There must not be a burden under the cover of the ecological tax reform, which is, in my view, the essential thing. I would like to say something that has not yet been said: In the sense of climate protection, I think it is necessary to carry out further forestry in Austria. I have read a very interesting article about the contribution our forest makes to climate protection. There are so many broken areas in Austria, there is still so much space, we have the opportunity to continue to reforest Austria. Forest contributes to climate protection, and forest is also recreation area for the people here in Austria in many areas. That is why I would ask you to put an emphasis on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e21997	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[16:24:53]] Deputies Veit Schalle (BZÖ): Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Global warming is a fact and is taking place now and today. Of course, we're all the causers. Our climate objective, i.e. the reduction of CO2 emissions by 13 percent based on 1990-2012, will not be possible if the current course, inactivity and half-heartedness are continued. This would be a reduction of at least 25 million tonnes of CO2 per year from 2008 to 2012. This Federal Government is currently limited to holding conferences and meetings; I am referring in particular to those in Bali. I already ask myself the question: Would 10 000 politicians really fly to Bali if the beaches were not so beautiful there? Which only means CO2 emissions when all those First Class fly to Bali... – No, but there are video conferences. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Should we stay at home?]] You can solve this much easier. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll) You said: no flight trips! They want to ban the Austrians from flying! You fly yourself every week!]] The Federal Government also installs a climate protection fund of €500 million, with two managing directors, which is fed by the drivers. The drivers feel this every day while refuelling. In addition, in the absence of an expert on climate protection, SPÖ has to resort to a green former official in the person of Mr. Andreas Wabl, of whom only one has heard that he costs €70 per hour. - Ah, there he is, thank God! [[The speaker greeted the hand towards the visitor gallery.]] Otherwise, I haven't heard anything for a while. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many hours does he work? Does he get paid for that he's sitting here?]] This standstill is no surprise, but in the last National Council election campaign the red environmentalists Sima and Krainer in their environmental programme had already established the following: “Austria needs a new environmental minister! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Does he get paid for sitting there, the Wabl?]] It's fast. For almost 20 years, the ÖVP has been putting the Environment Minister – and the balance for our environment is bitter.” [[BZÖ's condolences.]] So much for cooperation within the coalition in terms of climate policy. [[Call to the ÖVP: Now he's said a fool!]] [[Abg. Rädler: Smell the Ghostwriter!]] Bitter is an opinion of the Chamber of Workers, which even points to the foreseeable failure of current Austrian climate policy. In addition to AK President Tumpel, this opinion has signed the former SPÖ member Kubitschek. The enthusiasm of the coalition partner about such statements will probably be an end to it and will not be suitable for presenting a foundation for a finally efficient climate policy. However, other experts from the Federal Government's environment, who sit in the Climate Change Fund, such as Professor Schleicher, are slowly impatient in the face of inactivity and are predicting a failure to achieve the climate objectives. This Federal Government is in the process of reducing the current transition from the globalisation age to an environmental, factor-oriented age, thus not only avoiding positive impacts on climate and environment, but leaving other countries a pioneering role in the field of research and technology development in environmental technology. And not just that: Austria is keeping track of the purchase of emission certificates abroad and thus preventing any added value in the country – even if you know that a maximum of 2 to 3 percent of these projects are eligible for funding because they have already been or will be carried out. Instead of providing funding for domestic projects, government parties will decide this week to spend another 20 million annually on the trading of certificates – this will not result in any additional value added in Austria. I don't think that's all right. The Austrian taxpayer for projects in the rest of the world must be deeply involved in this. China itself is investing in renewable energy this year or next year – Mr. Pröll would have to know, because he was just there – 10 billion US dollars in renewable energy and is therefore second in Germany. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Was he there with the plane?]] China has also become the leading nation in terms of solar and wind energy. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I can fully support your speech at the Climate Summit in MuseumsQuartier – alone: The words should also follow. We are already calling for the urgent implementation of these 20 points in the form of a 20-point package for a viable Austria, a resolution tabled. I would just like to take a few measures, such as the immediate increase in the research rate to 3 percent. What's really important to me is: You always listen from the shift to the train. Only: There are no train cars! If you want to launch trucks on the transit routes, this is not possible. There are no wagons, they are booked out for the next three years! Decision-making on legally binding renewable energy targets; guaranteed unlimited and preferred access to the power supply network for electricity producers from renewable energy sources. Strengthen the promotion of investment in the field of thermal renovation, especially in residential construction. Here more than € 1 billion without thermal renovation is invested and awarded. I think you've worked very negligently. The creation of clusters for environmental engineering companies based on the model of the car cluster in Styria. In conclusion: At last, it would be very important to invest in energy saving measures that will permanently relieve the population and also the small and medium-sized economy and also relieve the environment, instead of continuing your burden policy. Austria is a tourist country, and we actually live on tourism. It is not funny at all when the media report that we are in the run-up to Spain. It's not good for tourism. Take an example at the head of the state of Carinthia, Mr. Bundeskanzler. This head of state has shown how effective climate change policy is in the interests of the population. [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm allowed to hand over the brochure here. For example, the Kärntner Landeshuptmann has turned all public transport into environmentally friendly fuels. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] In this context, it is only a shame that a suggestion from the head of state of Carinthia to Federal Minister Darabos to also convert the federal army's vehicles to environmentally friendly fuels is rejected by this one. In Carinthia, we have a bio-diesel plant that not only produces oil from rape, but also collects waste oil in an environment of 200 kilometres, which is unique in Europe. [[Abg. Oillinger:... the consumption of cars!]] This is another evidence of the lack of willingness of the Federal Government to become active in the field of climate change and environmental protection. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Time is a high and scarce good. I don't think we have time in climate policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22222	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). For you too, Minister of State: 10 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where do you fly over Christmas, Minister?]] [[16:33:58]] Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef PröllDear Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. State Secretary! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Climate change is probably the biggest global challenge we face, not only in environmental policy, but in general. The UN has once again invited the Environment Ministers and more than 10,000 delegates to a conference in Bali to negotiate and think about how the Kyoto phase continues in 2012. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Yes, Mr Westenthaler, I will fly to Bali next week to negotiate there to negotiate climate protection to invest something so that the next generations in this world also have a future. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why don't you take the train? Train and ship?]] I ask you: What if I refused? – Interesting discussion! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that must be an electric boat!]] That's why I'm going to choose a good middle path: I will go with my delegation to Bali, we will buy back the tons of CO2 we consume, and with this money we will substitute three projects in Austria, put these tons in alternative projects. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: With the rowing boat!]] You will also learn about it as soon as we return from Bali – three or four days after my arrival. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, to the objective we are pursuing in Bali: There, together with colleagues in the European Union, we represent the European requirements. Once again, Europe is the leader and leader in the ambition: minus 20 percent CO2 by 2020. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: holiday clothes in Bali!]] We offer to go even further when other industrialized countries participate, at minus 30 percent. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on the inner Austrian situation: President Glavischnig, also environmental spokesperson of the Greens, has asked a number of questions here, but has not given a single answer. I can only go to Karlheinz. Headphones: no answer, no future model, not even discussed. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That was a urgent request!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: That's why you're asked!]] [[Further calls.]] The second thing you always forget is to quote what the European Union has done in our assessment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It means urgent inquiry, not urgent answer!]] Part of it has already been said by the Federal Chancellor: We are very, very successful in decoupling CO2 emissions in relation to economic performance. We are leading Europe. We are in the good middle of CO2 emissions per head. The European Commission – and you forget – in its communication of 27 June 1994. In the following November, and this also distinguishes me from the statements of Professor Schleicher. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek:... Climate balance you can show!]] The EU Commission has therefore concluded that: With the measures already taken in Austria, with the measures in the pipeline, plus the implementation of the climate strategy, Austria will be able to make a point landing in 2012! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Tell us the measures!]] That is the objective we are pursuing, Mrs Glavischnig, no longer and no less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Lead So please contact all the studies and notifications, not only those that seem pleasant to you! A second point [[Abg. May. Kogler: Why don't you finally explain that?]] Because of our high efficiency – I would like to compare this with the summit tower to a mountain – we are already at the last altitude camp with regard to the achievement of the climate protection target. We are leading in all standards, in all objectives in Europe. [[Abg. May. Kogler: If the air goes out...!]] The others haven't even arrived in the base camp. That's why the air is a little thinner for us in the goal achievement. I'll give you some information about where we stand. As far as renewable energy sources are concerned, we are undisputed about the number one issue in the European Union, which is about 60 percent. [[Abg. Oillinger: Be careful that you do not hyperventilate!]] When we use biomass, we are in fourth place. From there to meet the most ambitious goal, we find it even more difficult for us than for the others who base below 5 percent in percentages. This is the difference that we also need to see in comparison statistics with the competitors. In the field of biofuels, everyone looks at us. Hungary has adopted our legal model one by one. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is the worst example!]] We have set a real trend at 5.75 percent two years earlier than the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That's even Eder said that this is problematic!]] Mr Pirklhuber, we have already discussed this passionately. Yes, the second generation of fuels will come – but not without the first generation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Biodiesel and ethanol – with experience, technology and innovation, there will never be a second generation. This is a logical step-by-step structure that we have developed and implemented together accordingly. What are we doing in the field of climate killer number one, in the transport sector? – It is not true that it is a one-man show of the Environment Minister to achieve the climate protection objective, but the burden distribution is clear, between the ministries, between the territorial authorities, between the federal government, countries and municipalities. Transport is our biggest child of concern, but like no other country – and the German Chancellor has already mentioned this – we have set real signals in the transport sector, introduced the addition, the mineral oil tax with 3 and 5 cents on 1. July increases – a step in a clarity as never before at once in the Second Republic! Don't forget that. This will have a steering effect, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third point: Mrs Glavischnig, I am very much admiring your statements today on the issue of the bonus malus system at the NoVA. Just keep making fun of yourself! But I'll tell you one thing. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: You are making fun of the population!]] You have already done this in the introduction of the bonus malus system in the diesel particle filter. In 2005 we took this step: 600 € Tax spread, 300 € Reward, 300 € Malus; for the vehicles that have a diesel particle filter, the bonus, for diesel particle filter free cars 300 € Malus – laughed and mocked by you. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: But you don't have the malus...!]] At that time we had 5 percent of new cars with diesel particle filters; today, two years later, with this bonus malus system, 80 percent of the newly approved diesel car diesel particle filters! [[Abg. Scheibner: That was a good government back then!]] It is wise to do this; and nothing else we do with the NoVA. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] It will also work and gradually convert the fleet into the direction of alternative energy. Next point: We will negotiate very intensively with the countries. I understand that lack of experience from you in the negotiation with the federal states in order to develop 15a contracts. But you can't imagine that the federal government is going here and saying: so, now we are knocking this on the table, and all nine have to hop!, but these are intense negotiations with colleagues in the federal states. Article 15a agreement on the promotion of housing to introduce higher environmental standards: We're gonna force that. ==References== In November, as a result of the financial compensation started, there will be no doubt here and there will be no point in ensuring that both new, new and new buildings, as well as rehabilitation, will be very - and this is also a good thing for the economy. Next point: They always come and say: What about these JI/CDM programs? Why does Austria even make purchases in other countries? – Especially you, who often stand so great for development cooperation and ask for support, I say, I was in China now, and there they are very grateful for this technological shift that we are actually reducing CO2 there. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: This is not development cooperation...!]] Nobody asks where CO2 is reduced in the world, but that is a global task. That is why we use the money very efficiently to achieve 45 million tonnes of reduction. And in this context an interesting comparison: They always shudder and say that, for example, the Netherlands or Luxembourg will be able to achieve their climate change objectives. Yeah, they're better at achieving their goal. You know why? – Tell the second part of the truth! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Austria buys a maximum of 37 percent of the reduction requirements via JI/CDM; we make much more of the effort domestically. The Netherlands buys 99 percent of its target over JI/CDM programmes, is sensationally well in the target achievement and is welcomed. Do you want that?, I wonder. So let us also stick to the comparisons as they are, and not to the hypothesis. Last point: In this area, I would also like to say to my department how it can go. Each of us has a task that is clear from different responsibilities. I have managed to achieve our climate change target in three key areas. First, waste management: minus 37 percent over the period considered. Agriculture: minus 14 percent. And with the fluorinated gases, leading in Europe: minus 18 percent. Everyone is required to work hard and pursue this goal. Then we will not be able to make criminal payments, and the year 2005 that Professor Schleicher expected for the future will not be the standard for the period of achievement. We have a lot of ideas, we do a lot of work! Assuming that we can achieve the objective jointly with these measures in the climate strategy during the target period. More optimism and less madness is announced, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22572	Next, Mr. Dr. Pirklhuber. 7 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Grill: A little shorter when it's all right!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: No, no mercy!]] [[16:44:01]] Deputies of Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber(Green) : Madam President. Mr. Federal Chancellor, I hope you will continue to listen to the remarks, because it is actually about this... – Now you are going out cautiously, and I already know why. I would like to say to you, Mr Pröll: In your speech, it sounds as if you were only responsible for this resort area since yesterday. And I'm not convinced that during this afternoon fairy tale hour, you managed to beautify the situation. [[Call the ÖVP: That's up to you!]] Let's get back to that: What are the facts? What do the facts look like? – 18 percent of our greenhouse gas emissions exceed the Kyoto target over 1990 and 36 percent above 1990; this is a fact. Mr Bundeskanzler – who is not present – it is absolutely obscene to me why you have not taken the opportunity and the opportunity to present the failures of the last government properly and clearly. For this is once undisputed, I think, and you are responsible for it, Federal Minister Pröll. There have been failures that have simply accumulated. For me, it has been particularly surprising that SPÖ is the first speaker – with all personal appreciation for colleagues Eder – of the energy speaker here. The energy speaker! That's what I thought: Okay, the SPÖ goes into the offensive, now comes a speech, a real plea for a green energy turnaround, for a new start, for a re-start with measures that really achieve the climate change goals. First of all, to implement real energy efficiency, across the entire range, from housing to transport, to innovative areas, for example electric mobility. Secondly, a real implementation and technology offensive in the field of renewable energies, which would be from biomass to photovoltaics. Just the latter: worldwide plus 40 percent growth every year in solar technology! And where is Austria in domestic use, in implementation? – We know, for years we have been discussing this with Greens. Thirdly, Federal Minister Pröll, a very central measure: the CO2 binding by humus building in agriculture. And at the same time, appropriate spatial planning measures, away from the sealing of the surfaces, towards a real global ecologicalization. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that recently the Chancellor Andrea Merkel – Angela Merkel, thank you! – on the occasion of a hearing in Potsdam at the Institute for Climate Impact Assessment, together with thirteen Nobel Prize winners, we have discussed this situation and found a very good concept that we will probably hear even more often in the future debate, namely that of ‘carbon justice’. [[Abg. Kickl: Angela Merkel!]] This makes it visible that climate protection is a global issue, which will also include justice in the future, including the social dimension and will have to cover it. There are the failures quite clearly: Global disasters are on the rise. The insurance industry is an eco-indicator for this. The latest figures from 2006 have clearly shown the following: Over the 1960s, extreme events have increased to two and a half times, the damage has been reduced and the totals of insurance have grown to twenty-two times. So you see, the drama, also the economic drama of this area is undisputed. Therefore, it is particularly painful that you try to beautify everything today. Mr Pröll. – He is now obviously also looking for the scope and ultimately does not perceive the challenge that exists for Austria. Undisputed is: The Alpine region is particularly affected by climate change. The Alpine region is already affected twice as much as the temperature rises. Within the last 150 years, the rise in the Alps is 1.5 degrees Celsius, and by 2085 the temperature is expected to rise by 4 degrees Celsius. This means the disappearance of glaciers until the end of the century, which means massive interventions in the forest ecosystem, which means a massive change in the water budget, and that ultimately also means massive changes in the field of economy and tourism. What is the Federal Government doing? What did she show today? – Lip confessions, without really presenting concrete measures that are already implemented in a implementation-oriented way. A key word for this would, for example, be the corresponding eco electricity law, which is still only available as a template and is currently under review. If Federal Minister Pröll says: If we compare ourselves with the other countries, then let us look at whether such a comparison is even useful. If the comparison is made, it should also be conducted in a serious way with those countries that are in a similar situation to Austria. Denmark has set a Kyoto target of 21 percent in savings, this objective has not yet been achieved, 8 percent is above the target value, but at the same time the share of renewable energy in electricity in Denmark has more than tenfold. In Austria, on the other hand, the share has decreased during this period: from 65 percent in 1990 to 57% last year. So you see, there are countries that have driven and implemented ambitious programmes in individual areas. We're waiting for it, and we're seeing it's not really moving forward. I would like to address a very prominent example to colleagues: The former Commissioner for Agriculture, Franz Fischler, is also a massive critic of the Ecopower Act, as was presented with the last novel and as it is discussed in the present proposal. So you see, the criticism is widespread and documented throughout the sector, and you are pretending, Minister of State Pröll, that everything has been resolved for a long time. I can only shake my head. I think it's also an affront that you just go. It is a question of bringing the debate to a very specific point which you have referred to, namely, the agrofuels. Minister Pröll is not here, is not interested in the arguments of the Greens. We'll definitely remember that. [[Abg. Scheibner: The Secretary of State looks very ambitious to answer your questions!]] On the agrofuels, the Federal Chancellor's Climate Change Commissioner has rightly made the clear statement that the eco-social balance sheet is negative. Moreover, ladies and gentlemen, the Beischwang only extends the oil peak and thus the time when the oil companies can make maximum profits. It does not favour the entry into new technologies necessary to really get out of the climate trap. It would be necessary for the Federal Government to review and reassess the consequences of these results, from these data, and to re-evaluate the completely overlaid objective of Austria. What Federal Minister Pröll wants to sell as a success is a wrong strategy. That's not a question at all. The production of biodiesel based on oilseeds is, and that is, Nobel prizewinners, anything other than ecological, if it is climate-neutral, is definitely only possible with massive use of pesticides and agricultural chemicals. You know that. A change would also be necessary because we cannot produce it from our own agricultural production. Austria can contribute up to 15 percent of the required areas. Mr Bundeskanzler Ladies and gentlemen, it is high time we really tackle a climate action that deserves this name. Let us remember that the “star” report clearly stated that 1 percent of the social product would be sufficient to achieve global climate change targets. That's what it's about now. We benefit from this time and the € 2 billion that we would otherwise have to invest in pönales for real climate protection measures in Austria. That would mean: An eco electricity law without covering, finally to increase freight traffic on the rails and implement a comprehensive truck toll, a standard consumption levy with a malus system that has a real control effect, and a correction to the agrofuels, in these overloaded targets. The basis for such a package to reach the level of the whole economy would be an eco-social tax reform, as my colleague Eva Glavischnig has already suggested. Ladies and gentlemen, support They therefore implement the green initiatives that are being implemented there and there. As Mr Grillitsch asks which one, I would like to quote Upper Austria as an example. There we have already launched this offensive for the budgets. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Landesrat Rudi Anschober has presented a programme, a truly offensive programme. Support the green energy turnaround! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22707	Mrs Bayr's next speech. I would like to speak for 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[16:54:24]] Member Petra Bayr(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! If in four weeks the first Kyoto calculation period begins, then Austria goes with a rather mortgage into this race. And yes, I see, because this is also addressed in a question, very probably a lot of failure of black and blue, because that we are not at minus 13 percent, but at plus 18 percent, is of course a pretty poor witness. However, I think that we can use our energy more meaningfully than this result, or also try to speak this result well. Both make no sense. Energy should be used to implement measures. On the one hand, this is about a more basic paradigm change. We must start thinking beyond legislative periods. We should also try to work together across national borders, across party borders. We will be asked to take very unattractive measures and still sell them and to stand behind them together. We must also be more aware of the fact that, with the things we decide in Austria, we are very likely to have an influence on global contexts. This is part of the necessary measures. But there is also a concrete part of the measures that we urgently need to implement. To do this, we will have to take money into our hands. I am also of the opinion that it is more sensible to take this money into control now and thus make a truly constructive policy, i.e. to make policies that really help to save CO2, to come to this carbon justice, rather than then to make unintelligent, rather unproductive and rather not sustainable any penalty payments. It has been said that a number of things have already happened. The mineral oil tax has been increased, the truck toll has been increased, the spraying of the NOVA is a first step for me. I would also like to see stronger measures. In addition, heating oil, low sulphur heating oil, the establishment of the climate fund, these are all the measures that go in the right direction, which are important, which are good and will also help improve our CO2 balance. As broad as what has already been done, however, is the arch of those measures that still need to be implemented. This is, of course, a much larger latte. I am thinking both of the needs of federal cooperation, which is not just about concluding 15a agreements. They are also very, very important, and especially as regards housing promotion, there is really a very, very great potential in there. But it is also a question of overcoming borders in the spatial planning policy and not leaving public transport at borders, but of thinking beyond that. Decoupling economic growth and increasing carbon emissions is a major challenge. Not only one, but a few ecological components in the 2010 tax reform will be necessary to stimulate this development. There must finally be alternatives to motorized individual traffic. The mobility card, as it stands in the government programme, would be a very, very useful possibility. A word on the novel of the Ecocurrent Act: I am not satisfied with this draft either. I also think it is necessary to have an eco electricity law without cover. From my point of view, however, we will also have to create a spatula not to have a lid and at the same time create a social compensation. It is not about all the additional costs – and it is desirable that they arise, because this also means that the share of renewable energy is increasing – but only about private consumers, but rather about finding a fair balance between those in the Republic who deserve a lot and those who may not be able to afford it. Near and district heating networks help to become more energy efficient. Much has already been said about energy efficiency. It also has great potential for jobs as well as for the economy. The fact that agricultural fuels and the hype, which is being made, are, in my opinion, a mistake, I have never been silent about that. Indonesia has now become the third largest CO2 issuer in the world, because peat surfaces are burned to create space for the cultivation of palm oil. A litre of Indonesian palm oil is ten times as harmful as a litre of fossil raw materials. So that can't be the right way, no question. In addition to many measures aimed at reducing CO2 emissions, we must also pay close attention to achieving an intelligent adaptation policy. We know that 2100 glaciers will have disappeared in Austria. This has immense effects not only on drinking water supply, but also on the supply of water energy and winter tourism. Globally speaking, however, those who have not caused climate change, who live in marginalised regions, who are poor, who have no money to bear these adaptation costs. Therefore, one of the results I expect from Bali is a fair burden sharing to prevent millions of people from becoming environmental refugees within a few years and leaving their homes. In Bali, too, it will be a task to insist on bringing many other industrialized countries on board. I have had a conversation today with representatives of the US Embassy in Austria. That will, I think, be a great challenge that lies ahead of us, but we should still face her. It will also be necessary to promote very offensively, as Austrians, that nuclear power cannot be an alternative, because the use of nuclear power is simply not a sustainable form of energy. The Austrians are concerned about climate change, and they are also willing to bear responsibility. Our task as a policy – and I really emphasize this as a general policy, and not only as this or that side of politics, but as a whole – will be to convince the people that we all together in the present costs things that are only in the future to be effective. If we do not, it will be even more expensive for us to stand as a human being, who together share a single earth. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22801	Next, Mr Grillitsch. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Seven minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[17:01:13]] MEP Fritz Grillitsch (ÖVP): Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard this many times today: Climate protection is a major social policy challenge in the global sense, not only in Austria. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] I am glad that I come from that party, namely the Austrian People's Party, which has always integrated sustainability as an economic principle into its party programme. [[Abg. Mandak: And what happened?]] - Please? [[Abg. Mandak: And what happened?]] Yes, the top places have come out of which we in Europe, as far as climate protection is concerned, Mrs Colleague. And that's where we can be proud. Don't talk about that all the time. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: The share of renewable energy has fallen!]] Everyone here in this room, but also every citizen, is required to make his contribution to climate protection. Austria's policy has shown, with its top positions in Europe, that we have taken a step-by-step role in terms of climate protection in Europe. And the results, these peaks in the share of renewable energy sources, in electricity production of renewable energy sources, dear Mr Pirklhuber, which do not come from today to tomorrow. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: They have fallen!]] I am also pleased that this Federal Government has set itself objectives and has now developed the implementation mechanisms to enable us to make a point landing in the field of climate protection, as Minister Pröll has said, in 2012 that the objective is consistent with the implementation mechanisms. Mr Pirklhuber, if you have previously complained that Minister Pröll has gone, I understand him, because he often has to listen to you very, very long, I have to say honestly. That is why I understand that he has now left, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is really cheap! You could have saved yourself that!]] [[Further calls to MEPs from SPÖ and Greens.]] - Please? - Well, it was. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: This is cheap!]] That's it. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You could have saved that!]] - That's it, Mrs. Colleague! Unfortunately, they are not at the Agriculture Committee meetings and others. But from there it makes my impression. Excuse me if I give him back here. As I said, Every individual has to make his contribution, and here I call on everyone in Austria to pay particular attention to it when buying it and to buy regional products. By buying 10 percent more regional products, we can reduce an average of 1,700 kilometres of transport and would transport only 150 kilometers worldwide. That means a reduction of around 116 000 tonnes of CO2, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to waste management, agriculture is one of the economic sectors that achieved the national Kyoto target of minus 13 percent in 2005. Of course, we know that the traffic of the climate killer is number one. That has already been mentioned. That is why I am also grateful to the Vice-Chancellor and our Federal Minister that they have now made this proposal on CO2-dependent standard excise duty. I wondered what kind of cry there was when Josef Pröll made the proposal to ecologize the tax system that it was not possible. What does the greening of a tax system mean? How do we understand that? . We want to reduce the factor of work while at the same time burdening the fossil energy sources, which are primarily responsible for CO2 emissions. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The stress on the factor you want to lower, not the factor!]] That means that's a good proposal. This proposal goes in the right direction, and we must also give further signs in the next tax reform. I am also glad that today the personal climate commissioner, or whatever that means, Mr Wabl, is here. I am glad that you recently gave a life mark and today show that you are still there, Mr. Wabl. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Unlike Pröll, he has gone!]] Your proposal to freeze the addition of biodiesel at 5 percent would throw us back in terms of climate protection. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A good suggestion!]] I am also glad that the Federal Chancellor in this regard has the same opinion and the same views – you have hopefully noticed today – as our Federal Minister Josef Pröll represents. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We need biofuels, ladies and gentlemen! We need first generation biofuels, because – Minister Pröll has already said that – without the first there will be no second. I am also glad that large car companies advertise biofuels for the second generation, but I am also aware that it is important that there is the first generation to be able to develop further so that you can continue research so that efficient fuels from renewable energy sources can be available in the future. VW makes this very successful. I'm telling you honestly, too. The energy areas we need for this are not competition for food production. We have clear priorities here. First of all, of course, I say this also in this context, the human being, in order to provide him with safe food and to give him security of supply. Second, the animal stands. It is about ensuring appropriate feeding areas and giving security of supply here as well. And the third possibility, and we will not let anyone take it, is energy production from renewable energy sources, in order to also follow a sustainable energy strategy. Another sentence: Only 1.5 percent of the EU arable land is used for renewable raw materials, ladies and gentlemen. 1.5 percent! We do not need to let ourselves be driven into hysteria here, that food production is lost or that we could produce too little food. A sentence on the Ecostrom Act, and I now appeal to everyone, to all the parties here in this hall, ladies and gentlemen: If we take climate protection seriously, then we say that the cornerstones of this eco electricity law with a duration extension of tariffs, with a higher lid... – Mrs. Colleague Bayr, okay, no lid, some of us from the SPÖ and the ÖVP on it. I'm just telling you: Ask the people in your club and in the Chamber of Workers: Who'll pay for this? So let's take this very seriously. Let us not try to promise the blue of heaven here, but what is necessary and feasible in the sense of climate protection, ladies and gentlemen. That is why I say to you: Take this seriously, because climate protection secures our livelihoods and climate protection by exploiting these potentials, these renewable potentials also bring value added and thus also employment to our regions. Here we are all required, and in this sense I invite you to work honestly with us in the future definition of climate change conditions.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e22989	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[17:08:43]] Deputies of Dipl.-Ing. Karlheinz Klement, MAS (FPÖ) : Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! At the beginning, I would like to show a few facts to put the Greens' request in the right direction. As a matter of principle, I would like to address the panic of some of them, and I would like to see facts playing a role here in the House. I think that's very important. The first paragraph in your application is: “At the World Climate Conference in Bali..., the course for a radical trend change in global climate policy must be set. This is the last way to rip the row around.” I wonder what will happen if this is not successful. Are we all dying out immediately? Will it be over? Is the light going out? So I think the first sentence is a little exaggerated. One should not make such fatalistic statements to the head of an application. Second: “The negotiators in Bali must follow the requirements of the UN climate: Worldwide, greenhouse gas emissions will have to be minimum by 2050. 50% lowered. “ As if the IPCC had eaten the wisdom with the spoon and as if it were the only wisdom that is valid. And that can't be it! There is also the possibility to discuss differently and to see the climate problem a little different. And a few facts, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens. First: CO2 is not a poison. Mr Pirklhuber, you know that CO2 is the basis for photosynthesis. If there is no CO2, there would be no plants, there would be no diet. CO2 is a colourless and odorless gas that dissolves in the water. And now comes the interesting example: When the temperature of the water increases, the solubility of CO2 is lower when the water temperature decreases, the water absorbs more CO2. Now consider, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, what happens when the sea temperature rises. – Then, of course, the partial pressure law of the gases CO2 is released from the world seas. If you come here and take these temperature and CO2 fluctuations out of the IPCC report and thus panic, then this is unsanitary, which is why it is unscrupulous, because all these are estimates. [[the speaker refers to a graphic]] They speak of scenario 1, of billions of dead when this development continues. And only if we reached a CO2 reduction to 260 ppm, maybe we could survive scenario 2. I would like to show you how unsavory these statistics are, on the basis of a second one, because of a statistics and research by serious scientists who have proved that the CO2 and temperature discussion has accompanied us for twenty-thousand years and that there have been times in Earth history in which we had a concentration of 400 ppm of CO2, and yet there were living beings and no one had to die. [[The speaker again shows a graphic]] [[Abg. Brosz: There is no climate change – or how?]] That means that this is a somewhat inconspicuous discussion, and there is a little bit of facts given in it. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Do you know better than the IPCC?]] The second point, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, should also let yourself go a little bit through the head. If You walk through the area every day, you breathe about 1 kg of CO2. Expect now You're up: There are about 6.7 billion people in the world, which gives about one emissions from the human CO2 emissions of 2.45 billion tons per year. All cars together around the world produce a CO2 emissions of 2.1 billion tons a year. In other words, if we were to stop all car traffic in the whole of Austria, it would not have any climate relevance at all, it would have no impact on the global climate, let alone on the European climate. This is also a fact that you should not necessarily lose sight of. If you are also talking about a climate disaster, and perhaps also quote Al Gore, who says that in Austria, we could reach a temperature level of 500 degrees Celsius in the world, I must say, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I think you do not live on the ground of reality. You should deal with physics lessons a little bit. There are plenty of primary school, primary school, secondary school. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There is no climate change?]] The fact is that, ladies and gentlemen, cold and warm times in Earth's history are constantly changing and that we have experienced times when in Europe – about 1300 – it was very cold. There were times, summer periods in which snow fell. There were regular years when the Lake Constance was frozen. And not for nothing, there were also international migrations. They were also due to food problems and because of the fact that natural climate fluctuations occurred. Now I want to get to the point why I'm saying that. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, listen a little! Mr Pirklhuber, a little listening, is not quite excited! I would like to tell you that there are other perspectives of science and not only an artificially built dogma of the greens, and that there must not only be climate hysteria, but there can also be a good climate discussion. And that's why we come to the point: The decisive thing about the whole discussion and the positive thing about it is that we will manage it – hopefully – together, as I am with the colleague, to create a reasonable policy in which we place renewable energies at the centre of our considerations and limit the dependence on energy imports. We should try to make a real contribution in terms of energy efficiency in order to make Austria energy self-sufficient. But this, please, ladies and gentlemen, not with the help of climate hysteria and panic, which insures people, but really because of real and good facts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Your “facts” are drawn to the hair, Mr Pirklhuber, I am sorry to tell you that they are not true. Just a short while to the ÖVP. It is quite funny when the ÖVP argues about climate packages and climate future. You will write on page 20 of your Austrian climate package from the “10,000 roof program”. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, this is actually a mockery, that mocks every description! If you want to adopt a “10,000 roof program” by 2012, please calculate: There are 2 500 municipalities in Austria, that is, 10,000 roofs through 2 500 communities over four years. roof per year per municipality. If this is a proactive climate policy or energy policy, please, ladies and gentlemen, say goodbye to your competence. You are not able to contribute anything to a real and decisive change with this programme. That is, if we want to achieve something, then, there are all companies that agree in the field of photovoltaics, the solar thermals, then we have to get inside more offensively. If you had written into your program 100,000 roofs, then that would have been okay, then you can accept it. But that, please... – This is a write error at the ÖVP! [[Abg. Zweytick: That's a write mistake!]] Maybe you should learn to write better! The second point is that this JI/CDM argument is really drawn to the hair. If we are talking about value added and really want to achieve something for Austria, this value added must of course remain in Austria. It makes no sense at all to promote projects somewhere in China or elsewhere in the world. The knowledge is here in Austria, we can use it here in Austria, you can also bring value added here in Austria, and that would be a reasonable way. So to sum up: Away from the climate hysteria of the Greens, away from the farce discussions of the ÖVP! We really need a cross-party, reasonable solution, but not with those experts you propose, but with experts who really plan to bring Austria forward in this respect. We need a reasonable development. [[Abg. Oillinger: Discuss this once internally, in your club!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! We do not want to go back to the Stone Age, we do not want to walk to Bali, we want a reasonable economic development for the whole of Austria in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23112	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[17:17:03]] Mr Kai Jan Krainer (SPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I believe that essentially the first period of Kyoto has run; from 1. The taxameter begins to run in January 2008. We will then be able to calculate, in 2014 in about how much money we have to pay as a penalty, with it quite immaterial whether we are already making some kind of advance payment in the sense of these green investments or whether we will then pay the thick bill in 2014. With the previous government, Austria has decided to pay some kind of advance in the sense of JI/CDM projects. I think that the decisive thing is – and this is what Bali is talking about – the question of how climate change policy is developing worldwide. And here you have to consider how climate policy has now worked at Kyoto I: Where were the strengths, where were the weaknesses, and what can we learn from them to make the successor regime more efficient and better? I'm starting with the economy, the National Allocation Plan. There is the following at European level: for example, we treat two steel plants – one in Germany, the other in Austria – differently. It pays for a steel power plant in Austria, for example, where we have the most CO2 efficient steel power station, more CO2 power taxes, more for the emissions of CO2 than another in Germany, which produces significantly more CO2 per tonne of steel. And this is certainly not in the sense of the inventor that those who are already efficient must pay more than those who are less efficient. In other words, we must pay particular attention to the large industry to ensure that all companies across Europe are treated equally and not different from one country to another. The second thing that happens is that we experience a shift in CO2-intensive production, which often happens like this: A European company, an Austrian company – I do not call it a name – produces products for the Austrian or European market in Austria, has to pay for them in accordance with the NAP for CO2 emissions, decomposes the company, builds it in another country that is not subject to the Kyoto Protocol, there produces twice or three times as much CO2 in production, because it produces significantly worse from CO2 efficiency, and exports these products to Austria or Europe again. It is probably not in the inventor's sense that the products we consume are no longer produced in Austria, but that two or three times as much CO2 is produced. That is to say, these are absolutely blatant weaknesses that we have, wherever we have to consider, how we deal with these weaknesses of the system. The next question – the lamp here already lights – is the question of the so-called investment over JI/CDM. It's like it makes sense on the paper, just: When you look at the projects in detail, you realize that there are very few that make sense. There are already a few who make sense, but most of them, I say once, golden Turkish left for any company in China, or immeasurably overpriced projects where the taxpayer actually pays the investor the four to five times of what he himself invests – anything but efficient. That is just because Mr Cot meant that we must pay attention to efficiency. In part, this system is horrendously inefficient. One last question, because there has also been a discussion about this today and in the last few days. That is the question: Can taxes be taxed? – Yes, of course you can, but not everything. For example, someone who bought an oil heater five or ten years ago cannot be controlled by making the oil more expensive, for he has the oil heating, and he will be standing there for ten, 15 or 20 years. It is rather reasonable to work on promotions. Can I control when buying a car? – Yes, of course, I can control it because it will be effective immediately. But you have to think about how to do it. My group has nothing at all against an ecologicalisation of the tax system. I just think that it is a very bad start for a debate on tax reform to start right here with increases, and I believe that this is very counterproductive and, in fact, harms those who want to ecologize. I believe that we must ensure that this is socially fair and socially compatible, especially in this area, because when we talk about sustainability, it is not only about economics and environmental issues, but also about social tolerance, about the social dimension of sustainability, and it is very, very difficult to achieve it, especially with regard to energy taxes. We like to look at this, we are in favour of it, but the social dimension is essential. - Thank you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[17:22]] President Dr. Michael Spindelegger: Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[17:22:39]] Mr Silvia Fuhrmann (ÖVP): Mr President. High house! I believe that this debate today in the context of the urgent question has a benefit, namely that we are aware of the issue of climate protection. I am very glad that climate protection is now an issue that is also of interest to the general public, and I also thank all the media that have set themselves the goal of contributing to this. The fact is that we are on the right path in the field of climate protection, because if the Austrian environmental technology industry is very innovative and grows faster at 7.3 percent per year than the Austrian economy as a whole, this is a success. The same applies to the research rate, which here increases by 5.6 percent more than twice as much as in other and other commodity productions, but also when it comes to finding out to what extent the environmental engineering industry can achieve something. And a turnover of around €4 billion is very much. Under the rule one still has to find out: If this can create 20 000 jobs – and this is the case – then it is a success to book Austria and where we can say that we are well placed. And that the Austrian Federal Government is particularly important the issue of climate protection has also confirmed yesterday's proposal to ecologize the NOVA. I already believe that it is positive to stress that it is a sensible measure to create financial incentives for the purchase of environmentally friendly vehicles. Because if we know that most of the CO2 emissions actually come from road transport, we need to create incentives. The fact that CO2 emissions have been doubled since 1990 shows that there is a need to act very quickly. I also very much promise of the United Nations Climate Change Conference and see it as a great opportunity. In any case, the objective must be a new agreement, which also defines new climate change measures. As encouraging I see the signal that Australia has also signed the Kyoto Agreement. I believe that it is also a right and important measure when Australia says that it will participate in emissions trading by 2010, so it will participate in it. I would like this to be a model for many other countries in terms of climate protection. The ÖVP has already introduced a very comprehensive set of measures with 21 measures as a red guide here to the high House. This shows that we are also the real and honest thinkers in terms of climate protection. I believe that it would be time not to delay things in the Committee on the Environment, to move things to the long-term bank, and perhaps to be a bit jealous of the fact that the constructive proposals come from the EIA, but now it is time to take measures here too. If the President-in-Office was the one who put the urgent question here, I would also ask: What have the Greens, what has it already contributed to raising awareness in the population, but also here in the High House in terms of climate protection? A lot of things come to mind. For example, we could go right away and replace all light bulbs with energy-saving light bulbs in Parliament – and it as President is responsible for them. It's a very simple measure. [[Abg. Oellinger: You're too late for that!]] I think you should start with little things. Mr Oellinger, if you perhaps align Madam President Glawischnig with the fact that it would also be useful to question such matters, or, for example, paper production, with the use of paper here in the House. I think the consciousness must go in the direction as well: How can each individual make a meaningful contribution to climate protection? Talking about the big topics on the meta level does not help anyone. That must also recognize the opposition. As Mr Grillitsch has already pointed out how much CO2 we can save if we rely on regional products, I must also point out that it is not only CO2-saving, but also that it is much, much cheaper to resort to regional products. That's what I think you need to convey to the people all the more. Energy saving is not expensive. That doesn't mean you have to get deeper into the bag, but energy saving also means saving costs, very simple things, such as handling electronic devices in an average office, the cost of standby mode can be up to €400 a year. This means that devices turn off and do not leave devices on standby mode means a plus of 400 € per year. These are very simple things. By the way, we also save a lot of money with a meaningful use of paper and energy-saving light bulbs here in the high house. And I think we should move forward as a pioneer with these good examples.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23214	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[17:28:00]] Member Lutz Weinzinger (FPÖ): Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. State Secretary! This debate is really very interesting, but it does not deny a certain sense of humor either. This starts with the fact that Mrs. Dr. Ruperta Lichtenecker suddenly throws around her with the words of the military. She speaks of deceiving and camouflage, of maneuvering, of courageous strategies, she sends the commanders letters. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] The political colour teaching has also changed a little. The Greens see everything black, the Blacks look blue-eyeed into the future – and the Red Chancellor answered as if he were still green behind his ears. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, even if you can see all this funny, the issue is really serious. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== In fact, there was this cold period, but there were the major European burns that have taken place for a hundred years. That's what you should say. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Sounds.]] Ladies and gentlemen, what do we have today? – We have conflicts of interest today, and they play here. We have considerable conflicts of interest. Of course, we want all full employment, not only the Social Democrats, but everyone we sit here. What does full employment mean? – Full employment means that we have the corresponding jobs. Jobs means that we must have industry. Industry means we need energy. - That's one. Second: We have conspired or gone into the hands of – you can see that this is something – an economic development that I do not think is right, the development that we have to pull everything together. Skill You remember? Just think back: 30, 40 years ago we had dairy cooperatives, and in every district of our home country, there were at least three to six dairies! Where are these dairies today? – There is no longer any more! There are two, three or four dairies in Austria, so you have to transport the milk to these dairies. [[Abg. Donabauer: 37!]] 37 – Almost so many of us used to have in the district of Schärding. So we have to transport milk to dairies, and we have to transport the products produced there again. The small economic areas have been “smoothed out”. This applies to the mills, which apply to dairies, which apply to agriculture, for example, the EU's agricultural policy. You all know very well that we have to observe with great concern that only the very large farms get the right, the big, the strong support – best the agricultural industry. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a misdevelopment which, of course, means energy consumption and, above all, transport and even more traffic. - That's the economic side. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But there is also another side: Each of us wants it as comfortable as possible. We give it to the housewives and the very few housemen that they just have to press on a button, and it will be warm in the apartment that they do not have to drag wood into the apartment and heat in with natural resources. But this costs energy, mostly fossil energy, because the installation is, for example, unprofitable, too expensive and we cannot afford it again. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to take away the amenities of our fellow citizens? [[Call:No]] If you want to take the cars away from them, because everyone wants to go on holiday with their own vehicle somewhere and so some have to go to work somewhere. These are the other problems. Jobs directly in the region, jobs near the place of residence, this is an objective that we have long forgotten. We need to get back there, the smaller and medium-sized structure needs to become part of our objectives again. It can't be that way, that's clear to all of us, but a part of it can be. If we do this and if we take it to our goals, all of us, the government parties and the opposition parties, who make sure that this happens, then we actually have a reason to see a little more blue-eyed and less black in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23304	The next item is Mrs Pepper's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remainder of the speaking time of the group is 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking. [[17:33:52]] Member Katharina Pepper(SPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard more often today that climate protection – an important issue worldwide – is also a top priority in Austria and is an important objective. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Climate protection, ladies and gentlemen, is not a political question, but concerns us all. On behalf of the Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer, a climate protection officer in the person of Andreas Wabl has been entrusted with the task of: In this area, coordination must be achieved. This includes, in particular, the ongoing care of the climate protection summit, which will take place every year and thus become a permanent establishment. However, the Climate Protection Officer will also be a contact person on all issues of climate protection for NGOs as well as for stakeholders and for interested citizens. Each of us, ladies and gentlemen, each one of us is required to make a contribution to leave a viable environment for the next generation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The policy task is to create frameworks that give as many as possible an incentive to make their contribution. It is possible and often realized here that funding for alternative energy generation or renewable energy is available. In this area, my federal state of Burgenland is exemplary. What began ten years ago with the construction of the first windwheels in Zurndorf has become a success story in Burgenland: 206 windwheels now cover the northern Burgenland, and 40 percent of the Burgenland's electricity needs cover BEWAG from the economy. I am glad that after last reports, wind power remains largely in the state's ownership and that the Burgenland has opted for an energy-autarchic solution by 2013. With more than 200 windwheels and 50 biomass plants, the Burgenland has a leading position in the use of renewable energies in Austria, and with the initiative to use the power of the sun for electricity generation, the construction of photovoltaic plants is now being promoted. It would be worth mentioning, ladies and gentlemen, that the BEWAG provides its know-how for wind power projects in Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Croatia. This is the example of Burgenland in a region, and we see how practical solutions can be implemented for a complex global scenario such as climate change. The use of bioenergy contributes decisively to reducing CO2 emissions. Of course, all of this takes its time, but I know that the Federal Chancellor, in cooperation with his colleagues in the government, will strive to achieve the objectives set in terms of climate protection. We wish him all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23402	The next speaker is Mr Bauer. The Group's remaining speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking. [[17:37:39]] Deputies Dkfm. Dr. Hannes Bauer(SPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the previous debate has shown the complexity of the problem, but also how serious it is to deal with it, even if one does not believe it before. Kurt Ederhat's material contribution clearly shows and shows what it means to choose the one way and how many tons you can win with the other way. - That's one. Secondly, I believe that there is a particular need for policy, because otherwise there are hopes that individual energy sources simply cannot fulfil; there you can discuss as you would like. There must be a balance between security of supply and social-ethical relations – the very, are very important – and ultimately also the question of global revenue and demand. Because, I think, with the greatest degree of self-evidentness, 20 percent of humanity can consume 80 percent of energy. It is therefore logical that energy costs will increase more and more in the future, globally, without increasing energy consumption as a highly developed country. This is because more and more demand will occur on the world market – the large emerging economies show us that indeed. Therefore, the hope that sometime the prices will go down is based on a false assumption. You may vary once by 10 dollars per barrel, but in total there will be an increase due to demand. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] That is why we need to do all we can to use energy that is personally available to us. That's what I'm going to get to the Ecostrom Act now. Even if the Ecopower Act is not being dealt with today, you can assume that it will become a law that I would rather call “ecoenergy law” because it is not about electricity, but actually about energy use. That's once the one track. Secondly, In reality, it is much more important in Austria to create an energy efficiency law. Not everything that seems that way – for alternative energies, for example – is a real alternative in the sense of efficiency. I am deeply convinced that energy efficiency in Austria can be increased by up to 40 percent and not only by about 20 percent. It is, for example, about combinations of pipes. If I can feed biogas directly, I can save or use more energy than if I do a work in which I stream myself. I consider these questions of the institutional framework to be essential for Austria, because it is important – my last sentence – whether we can actually use these energies for Austria. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] This is a way that, I believe, needs to be taken, and for that we must certainly rethink the framework conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23490	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. The Group's remaining speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking. [[17:41:27]] Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler (Green): Mr President. One sentence in advance: If one were to follow the statements of a previous speaker, mankind could be saved by stopping breathing. - That's just presumptuous. I wanted to put this to you before the greeting, Mrs State Secretary, because it is so obscene that we should mention it in this way. Now, to be serious about the whole matter: I think it is a bit strange that during Mr Pirklhuber's speech both the Federal Chancellor and the Minister for the Environment have stood up and gone, what her right is – Mrs State Secretary, you are here as a representative – but in my view this is not all right, not only in order to try to do what the government is dealing with with Parliament – I am not going to do that at all – but also because a speaker has clearly prepared to enter into a dialogue here – that was clearly to be heard from the arguments – but we have not even been informed that the gentlemen are standing up and going. That would be a very clear thing and might also be accepted. I don't think that's all right. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is also to be seen in the context of the fact that Mr Head then went out and – more or less well – played the defender of duty and explained that the Greens would not make any proposals. That's absurd! Mr Kopf is a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and is very well aware that, in a package way – this is not an exaggeration – the Greens' requests are not only lowered by their strange practice of postponement, but also by any Nirwana orbit. This is the practice you handle, and so you want to teach us here when we make a urgent request because a request is appropriate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the same time, there has been a great deal of guilt in replying, so that we have at least discussed each other here. I am not at all concerned about the fact that, in particular, Federal Minister Pröll, who has been involved in the debate, has remained guilty of any perceptibility of his account – this small-cared “castl painting” is perhaps still going through in the ÖVP perspective group – but that one simply makes allegations here and does not even make the attempt to prove it, I think a little bit. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] And this against the background that colleague Lichtenecker presented this very clearly, objectively – contrary to the pretension you made here again – and comprehensiblely presented it here. Then we look forward to a dialogue, and what comes out? - Something like that! But let's stay in the fight with the ÖVP: When we put this whole little carat aside, at least one question arises... – We have always been ready to say to the economic debates even during the last legislative period, then with Chancellor Schüssel, Minister Bartenstein, to open the speeches by saying: [[Abg. Grill: Mr Kogler, who's a little cart?]] Yes, it's not all bad, it's also a lot fine, with the various rankings you can interpret different et cetera!, and it's also like this: I do not wish to object explicitly to what Gusenbauer and Pröll have said, that is not the point, but if we were to stop using these records as they are produced here, we would conclude that it is simply about the fact that there are still huge opportunities here – and they have to be awakened, they have to be used! The main problem – that is, we can now find out whether it is the eco electricity law, housing matters or the non-or scarcely made investments in public transport systems – is the main problem, after all, the failure of opportunity to do so, not to say annihilate. That's the problem. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course you can talk about what is economically efficient and what is not, but one is sure: That the whole thing must also be considered economically and not just in the business sector. And then, of course, you have other outputs of this debate. Then it would suddenly appear that we would have much more of it if we were to rebuild the German EEG, with regard to the opportunities of smaller companies, but also quite modern environmental technologies and relevant industries, that we also had something of it. The environmental technology companies in East Styria do not live by the fact that we had given the appropriate framework conditions in Austria, but these companies are there because in Germany Rot-Grün has enforced the EEG; there they deliver primarily. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It will be of no use to us in certain regions for the long term, if we only go around in car clusters and transfer a few spas. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] That must be clear to you! That's where you're sleeping, and we're saying, Okay, let's take this match, who's the better economic party, and let's take a look at that. At least in this area you have to get up earlier!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23591	Mrs Silhavy, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please. [[17:46:56]] State Secretary at the Federal Chancellery Heidrun Silhavy Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and, I say, Mr Pröll, have also answered the written questions addressed to them by the President-in-Office of the Council and both representatives of the Government. I have not noticed that a question has been raised in one of the contributions to the debate. Allow me to say a few more words: The Oekostrom Act, you mentioned it yourself, is currently under review. I think that German Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer has also justified the principles under which he sets this innovation, namely on the one hand the optimal use and use of the available resources, which must not be so rigid that an efficient plant, for example, cannot be built, because annual funding has already been exhausted, and on the other hand, the energy efficiency that has already been clearly addressed today. A very important point, of course, is distribution justice. On the biofuel, which I would like to stress here again, so that this does not remain wrong in the room, the Federal Chancellor has said very clearly that it is important to consider the entire eco-balance sheet and also to prevent possible social consequences, because of course it is not useful to reduce greenhouse emissions on the one hand and on the other hand to have much greater consequences in the eco-balance sheet and also in the social balance. The importance of spatial planning has also been raised, and I would like to thank you very much for the fact that we recently had an informal Council of Ministers in the EU on this subject. The issue was that, for example, spatial planning and territorial planning are, so to speak, an issue with regard to climate at European level. This is not all the same, I would also like to say clearly here, because there is another point to be discussed in this context, namely the task of rural development. I think that is a very essential point, and one has to address it clearly here. I have worked to ensure that we are moving towards inclusive space policy, which of course cannot be seen in isolation from global social developments and challenges. I hope that in this House, too, a broad majority will have this attitude and will also support it. My colleague, Mr Pfeiffer, has shown an example of how structural funds can help to give impetus to regional policy. In particular, the development of energy in Burgenland is based on the fact that regional policy has set the impetus here. And I am really pleased that we are they have how successfully these originally small projects can actually be carried on. Finally, I should like to point out that German chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer has already invited the climate summit to the first weeks of his government, that the Climate Fund was a result of this summit, that the Federal Chancellor has also appointed a climate protection officer. I think that the measures in favour of rail in the area of the infrastructure package, the greening of the tax which is now being started, including the NOVA, are further steps in this direction, I do not need to repeat. In any case, the number of measures already taken shows that a proper climate protection policy is being pursued. I am pleased that today's discussion has given government representatives the opportunity to present their actions and positions. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e23652	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[17:50:48]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 3 President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We are now moving to the vote on Agenda items 1 to 3, which I make separately with each of the Committee's requests. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, the Medical Law 1998, the Private Hospital Funding Fund Act and other laws, into 352 d.b. Mr Amon, Mr Oberhauser, tabled an additional request. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment. In addition, Deputies Dr. Sebastian Eder, DDr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by these supplementary and amending proposals, according to series, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Deputies Dr. Sebastian Eder, DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 3(4). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a positive sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Mr Amon, Mr Oberhauser, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the inclusion of a new point 7a in Article 4. Whoever gives his consent to this supplementary request, I ask for a sign of confirmation. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Deputies Dr. Sebastian Eder, DDr. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 4(40). I ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Deputies Amon, Dr. Oberhauser, colleagues and others have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 59a into Article 4. Whoever gives his consent to this supplementary request, I would like to ask for a sign in this regard. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Deputies Dr. Sebastian Eder, DDr. Deweisers, colleagues and others have tabled an amendment concerning Article 4(83) 634(1). Whoever stands up for it, I seek for a positive sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. The members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 4(83) (634)(11)(11) and (12) and to a subsequent amendment to the paragraph designation. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to give a sign. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on Rule 4 83(634)(11) and (12) as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the preparation of a study on the economic and social impact of immigration to Austria and the associated effects on the social state. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, colleague and colleagues on compensation for expenditure for citizens in Austria instead of three-digit million contributions to Brussels. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are in favour of this motion for a resolution, are a sign of approval. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oberhauser, Mr Amon, Mr Amon, Mr President of the Commission, on reducing the cost of medicinal products. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. It's accepted. (E 45.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Members Kickl, colleagues on misinformation in the Federal Chancellor's pensioner's letter of retirement or a fair increase in the pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pensioner's pension. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein, colleagues on measures to prevent the abuse of the e-card. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, ladies and gentlemen, on compensation for the additional financial burden on health insurance companies. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on the increase in the guidelines referred to in § 293 (1) (a) ASVG (compensation allowances) to the level of poverty risk threshold according to EU-SILC. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Pension Act 1965 and the Bundesbahn-Pensionsgesetz, including title and entry into 353 d.B. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Health Committee, the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with the nature. 15a B-VG on the organisation and financing of health care in 308 d.b. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Scheibner, Mrs Scheibner, Mr Colleagues, on regular checks on compliance with the required limit values for mobile communications. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[17:58:11]] 6. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (304 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the War Victim Supply Act 1957, the Sacrifice Care Act and the Military Supply Act (354 d.b.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 29/A by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Members and colleagues on a Federal Act amending the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Sacrifice Law and the Vaccination Law (355d.b.) President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We now come to points 6 and 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Keck. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[17:58:53]] Member Dietmar Keck(SPÖ): Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A little more than one and a half years ago, in this House in the area of the Military Supply Act, we made a change, which meant a great deal of help for a small group of affected people. By reducing the so-called reduction in employability from 25 to 20 percent, we have made it easier for those people to access the injured pension who have put their health and their lives at risk for our state and our security. It is relatively small amounts that have been spent here, but in many cases these are the exact amounts that protect those affected from acute poverty. These provisions have already been applied in the field of the Vaccination Act, and this procedure clearly shows that these are benefits which are quite similar to those of an accident pension which occurs in the event of an accident at work. This thesis continues, ladies and gentlemen, it is only clear that we now also, on the part of the legislator, align the other area of social compensation rights with this level. These measures are now to be followed in the area of the War Victim Care Act as well as in the Victim Care Act. We thus eliminate an inequality that results solely from the fact that the legislator has so far not observed the degree of impairment – that is, the individual suffering – but only because of what it came out of. With our decision, we are now resolving this mistake. We are expanding the circle of those entitled to benefits to around 2,800 people and will spend more than €1.8 million in 2008 on these social benefits. This is an amount that should not be too high for us in the elimination of social injustices, especially because we know that only €630 will be charged on a case-by-case basis. I am all the more pleased that all the parties in this House are That is why we have to expect a unanimous decision in this matter today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24025	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please. [[18:01:09]] Member of Parliament Karl Oellinger(Green): Mr President. As my colleague, Mr Keck, has made a very detailed statement on the request, I am only left with the task of saying that we agree with all the other groups as well. At the same time, however, I announce that this week's plenary sessions will include applications for improvements in the victim welfare law, where the allowances have not been adjusted for a long time. Mr Federal Minister, we also hope to do some of your support on this issue, as well as a whole, to ensure that the victims of National Socialism come to their right, including with regard to pensions and other claims.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24065	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please. [[18:02:00]] Member of the Commission. Norbert Hofer(FPÖ): Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Last year, we amended the Military Supply Act and thus achieved that a injured pension is already paid if you reach an invalidity rate of 20 percent – earlier it was 25 percent. This regulation was then also adopted for the area of the Vaccine Damage Act. What we decide today is an extension of this provision to the other areas of the right of social compensation. Of course, we agree to this improvement. But also allow me to use this opportunity to say that there are things that are lazy in the social state of Austria. These are things that would be easier to solve than the complex problem of care, where the ÖVP of the SPÖ condemns social cold and the ÖVP accuses of having no handshake quality. I would like to point out a very concrete abuse and ask the Minister of State to look at it. I have here a letter from the Federal Social Office, a letter from the State Office of Vorarlberg, and I would like to quote from this letter – I have laughed at first, but it is a serious topic – in which Dr. Peter Amann, the head of the State Office, writes the following: Ladies and gentlemen! They have applied more or less long ago for an issue of a disability passport. – Now comes an interesting sentence: – This takes you from a short to a very long time. I would like to apologise to you for this more or less long period of procedure. At least strange. Mr. Dr. Amann also asks:... only in cases of urgency, since the response to calls is very time-consuming and our time capacity is again limited. You can be assured that we have put in place various measures to speed up the procedures, but in almost 800 open procedures, to which new ones are constantly added, the reprocessing takes many months. - Quote. Of course, there is much to it for those concerned. If the card has not been issued, the amount of the allowance cannot be claimed from the Financial Office, and that is a financial loss. You will not receive any benefits if you do not have this ID card. That is why I am very much asking the Federal Government to address this abuse and organisational deficiency so that those people who are disabled and should receive a ID card should receive it more quickly.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24137	Mr Buchinger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State. [[18:05:11]] Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin BuchingerDear Mr. President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I thank Mr. Ing. Hofer for the form of the presentation and for its contents. I have been known for three days – since Friday last week – that the Federal Social Office, just at the regional office of Vorarlberg, actually has the shortcomings you have shown here. As a result of the new regulations and the increase in passive procedures, 800 cases have come to a standstill. This increase has been done with the allocation of additional staff. You're right: It cannot be that the disabled who apply for the issue of a disability passport must wait for months, even up to a year, for the exhibition, as shown by this letter, which is very misunderstanding and not optimally formulated. Therefore, the 836 applications open on Friday last week would have to be processed very quickly. There is also a second problem in the background, that there are bottlenecks among the medical experts. We also need to deal with this quickly and eliminate it. I would like to thank you, Mr Hofer, for your information. I was informed three days before, but it is nevertheless good to point out shortcomings in this form, as you have done. My responsibility is to fix these quickly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24180	The next item is Mrs Ursula Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[18:06:48]] Ursula Haubner (BZÖ): Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! This item deals with both a government template and a request from the BZÖ. The Government template and the application are almost identical in their concerns and in their presentation. As my previous speakers have already said, it is about improving access to a damaged pension, i.e. already with a 20 percent reduction in employability – as before – with a 25 percent reduction. In September 2006, the Army Supply Act was amended accordingly. It has been a legitimate wish of the war-offering and disabled organisations to adapt it as well. This will be taken into account by this government template and the request. Some 2,800 people will be affected positively – positive in the sense that they will receive a pension for the first time. I am also pleased that there is a five-party agreement. The only thing I regret is that this was not already available in the House last year when we submitted our request in November 2006 and a decision was made. [[Abg. May. Lapp: You made a mistake!]] Otherwise, this law would already be with 1. January 2007 entered into force and people had already received this cheaper pension for a whole year. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24246	From the government bank, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Buchinger, once again spoke. - Please, Minister of State. [[18:08:36]] Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger Dear honourable Member Haubner, you know I appreciate your work and your way, but here you do a little bit according to the method: “Keep the thief!” In the area of military supply, the previous government has established the right to grant 20 percent of the claim, which previously existed from a reduction in the employability of 25 percent. The previous government was unable, however, to do so in the field of war victims and victims – objective reasons are and were not recognizable. Unfortunately, we have to make up for this now, therefore the delay. However, I would also like to thank the coalition partner for the joint approach. Here we have implemented a social policy improvement which has not been negotiated in the Government Convention. Nevertheless, this was both budgetary and content without problems in consensus. I think it is again a mosaic that manages to realize social policy improvements here even with a five-party proposal and with a unanimity for which I would like to thank myself.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24283	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the War Victim Supply Act, the Victim Care Act and the Military Supply Act, including title and entry into 304 d.b. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, its report 355, B.C.E. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. [[18:10:59]] 8. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (309 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement in accordance with Art. 15a B-VG between the Federal Government and the countries on the joint promotion of the 24-hour care (356 d.b.) 9. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment No 322/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the introduction of a care report (357 d.a.) 10. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 329/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues on the standardisation of the assessment procedure for the assessment of care needs (358 d. B.) President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We now come to points 8 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs Mandak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[18:11:52]] Member Sabine Mandak (Green): Mr President. Minister! High house! I already mentioned it in the morning: I think there is hardly any law that has caused such uncertainty and confusion, such as the regulation on the 24-hour care that you passed in this year and which is now the subject of the Article-15a agreement. There was uncertainty, because there were discussions between the politicians – in this case, apart from an exception, men – which markedly delivered their fights, and in particular these were Buchinger, Bartenstein, Molterer, Khol, Blecha, Pröll, Sausgruber, Ackerl and Pühringer. They all rank and ring around solutions, or – as I believe and have the impression – they are probably more about their self-representation and their positioning. However, they do not seem to care much about the situation of those concerned, for otherwise they would behave differently and talk behind the curtains and then face the population with concrete solutions instead of constantly insinuating people. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They argue about the amount of support, they argue about the duration of the amnesty, they argue about whether there should be a limit of wealth or not, and, if so, at what level. In this application we suddenly find the concept of bis-to-24-hour care, and from your point of view it is quite clearly defined that at the care stages 3 and 4 the 24-hour care can be demonstrated by professional confirmation. I mean, it's going somewhere. After all, it is only too easy to forget that the classification at care level 3 means a care effort of 120 to 160 hours and the classification at care level 4 means a care effort of 160 to 180 hours. This means that the caregivers will be granted a care effort of about five to five and a half hours. Only with regard to care levels 6 and 7 is the round-the-clock care addressed and defined at all, i.e. if the care effort is over 180 hours. This shows that the first thing to do is to redefine the care levels urgently. Secondly, the amount of the care allowance is urgently adapted to the actual need. Thirdly, it is about creating offers for the outpatient sector. You yourself see that very many people have to use the round-the-clock care because there are no other offers for them. They can use mobile services perhaps two or three hours a day, but de facto it is not possible to use these services to a daily level of five to ten hours, because they lack the corresponding regulations in the countries. There is a great need for action here, because nothing has happened. Those concerned often have no chance at all to decide between round-the-clock care and mobile services, because there is no alternative offer at all. We have always strongly criticized working conditions in the 24-hour service. However, these have remained completely the same. They make no distinction as to how intensive care needs are. I don't know if They have ever thought about what it means for a caretaker – it is almost exclusively women – to care for a difficult person around the clock for 14 days. These people often walk around in the afternoon, but also in the night restlessly. Imagine what that means! [[Abg. May. Hakl: We know all that!]] – You know all of this! And yet you do it!Unknown term type: "%s".? It's wonderful! Is this your responsible dealings with those who care for and, on the other hand, with those who are cared for? Such working conditions are being suspended by the caretakers, a burden that is simply inhuman and that no one can endure in the long run? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The last big point I would like to address is the asset line. You threw the ball back and forth, it was only 5 000 €, and now you have increased to 7 000 €. Some federal states are waving, for example, the state of Vorarlberg, from which I come, which I consider to be very double-rate, because the country of Vorarlberg is very likely to be valid in the stationary area and thus there is a great inequality between those who are being cared for in the hospital, and those who receive the round-the-clock care at home. I'm sluggish about how you want to check these property limits! There are assets that are quite easy to control, namely real estate. But ask a bank – as I did – if someone, for example, has a savings book of €10,000, or maybe not just one, but two or three or four with such an deposit. No one will be able to find out because the banking secret is still valid and no information is provided about these savings books! That is to say, you create laws whose observance you de facto cannot control at all! They create an blatant inequality towards all those who, as it were, have a little indifference. To all those who have a great fortune and may have parked this somewhere abroad or put it in foundations, do not take access anyway, but it is about the savers who have spent their lives putting money on the side. From our point of view, these are still unacceptable conditions, and the Article 15a agreement that has been or is to be reached does not alter the unacceptable conditions that are created here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24404	Mrs Lapp's next speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague. [[18:19:20]] Deputies Mag. Christine Lapp(SPÖ): Mr President. Minister! High house! The Article 15a agreement with the countries which the Federation has reached in connection with the 24-hour care has brought about a solution which represents a loophole or a mosaic in the system in which the people who have provided care services previously had no social security and no other insurance. A solution has now been created with many partners. All stakeholders, seniors, social partners and the federal states were closely involved and involved in decision-making. This solution concerns 5 percent of the people in need of care, and we have succeeded in finding a durable, practical and simple model here. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: You have no idea! You are absolutely unsuspecting!]] There are also promotions. This system had to be adapted to the differences that exist in the various federal states, and here we have – after the care benefits – once an agreement that applies across the whole federal territory in the federal states. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that people are not further unsure by the contributions that come from the various sides. It is said, for example, that no one can afford that this is impossible and not to deal with. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is uncertainty, because it is said that the amnesty must be extended as if it were something to win. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, from your side the streaming of hypocritical incense swabs to extend the amnesty! I think it is important to find a solution for the people concerned. I can also quote you: In the preface to a brochure by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Federal Minister Bartenstein makes it clear that this brochure provides concrete information on implementation in order to ensure that there are clear and safe conditions for care that take a measure of human beings. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that we now decide on this model. It is accompanied and evaluated, i.e. the people who take advantage of it, are competently advised by the Federal Social Offices and by all stakeholders and can fit into the system. 24-hour care is necessary where mobile services, part-station and stationary facilities are not greatly expanded and therefore not sufficient. From Vorarlberg, I was told that there are the so-called East helpers there, those women who had to work in the illegality until now, who were completely uncertain about quality, care and also from the point of view of the social security law; but also those people who cared for them were not insured, and there were sometimes very unpleasant incidents. Ladies and gentlemen! I congratulate the Minister and his team as well as the federal and country officials on this arrangement! I mean, especially in the nursing sector, where people are concerned and where different needs are perceived, it is important that we implement other models and look at the corresponding regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24460	Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[18:23:23]] Member of the Commission. Norbert Hofer (FPÖ): Mr President. Federal Minister! It is also to be mentioned today that the discussion between the coalition parties on care is not helpful for the matter because it is conducted in a way that prevents solutions. Perhaps it would be a good way to reconcile a coalition-free space in this area by saying: We have a joint federal government, but in this area we cannot meet, so in this case we will be able to have a coalition partner with another party in Parliament to find a majority in favour of his proposal. Such a solution would probably serve more than a continuation of this dispute. Otherwise, one would have to use the two-thirds majority one has in order to reach large solutions, for example, to ensure that health care is no longer separate from the care sector, that there are optimised funding flows, that extramural and intramural health care is financed equally, together with care. That would be the right way! This could be achieved with the two-thirds majority! One could also think about whether one finances health care and care through taxes rather than social taxes, as is the case so far. Perhaps this would be a fair path and a better way to widen the basis of contributions. The ÖVP's proposal on the removal of family rule also considers me to be a right way, because it is not a matter of concern to someone who becomes a caretaker that his children ultimately pay for him and perhaps in a phase they must become financially active for him in which they are building themselves a very existence. If someone has no children – and everyone decides for themselves how to live – then the public hand also jumps in. I therefore believe that there must at least be a uniform funding to ensure that the children do not come into the handcushion in financial terms when the father or mother becomes a nursing case. The removal of the asset limit which the EIA also demands is also positive, because we also believe that proper control is very difficult. I have to think of a lady from Eisenstadt I know: It's called Ludmilla, is over 80 and has worked as a kitchen aid for a lifetime. She never had a car, she built a small house with her husband, but they had little money. The man went to work, and she dug out the cellar! So she was always very brave. She has never earned much, but has never spent much and has managed to save herself in the many years in which she has worked, so that the children, the grandchildren and great-grandparents also have something, and that is more than €7 500, although she is compensated for and free of the recipe fee. So she doesn't have much, but she's got something to save herself and is very proud of it. This lady would be hard hit if she needed a 24-hour care and had to spend her savings on it and then no longer available to the children or grandchildren. [[Abg. Oillinger: Can she afford the 24-hour care at all? As you describe it, she can't afford it!]] With this lady a 24-hour care would not be necessary because she would be cared for by her daughter anyway. But it's right that she couldn't afford this without any further! On the agenda today there is also a request I would like to make: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's what the ÖVP also wants. That is our request, and I ask you to support it. A second application concerns the possibility of funding from stage 3 and the legal claim of the promoters: Motion for a resolution by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on social and legal security for caregivers The National Council wants to decide: “The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary steps to ensure that, in addition to the possibility of funding from Stage 3 on all other stages of care under Stage 3, after an examination of the needs, a support facility for care is provided, 2. to provide the promoter with a legal claim, 3. to eliminate the tendency of disparity between self-employed and self-employed caregivers, and to prevent disincentives and 4. to grant an official liability for the case of a claim for recognition as an employee for which the government representatives are advocating.” I can explain: It may well be the case that you are only classed with level 2 and yet a 24-hour care is necessary. For example, the current assessment practice of the needs of children can be such that, despite this low level, a 24-hour care effort is required. This refers to the first point. The second point concerning the claim is a fundamental consideration: I believe that it is necessary in the whole area of social and disability policy to define clear conditions so that someone who fulfils these conditions also has a legal claim and no one is downgraded as a sluggish. We will then also discuss the request made by me concerning a care report. You will know the latest reports from Germany – it is perhaps two or three weeks ago –: For example, in many nursing homes, patients were dehydrated and malnourished, wounded and sent to bed in the early afternoon. We do not know figures in this regard from Austria, but should look at that, if necessary – what I do not hope! – to be able to take the necessary measures. That is why I have tabled a request for this. There is also a second request aimed at implementing this care report in the Social Report. I'm right, too. The main thing is that we get the corresponding figures and data. On my second request, concerning the standardisation of the care procedure, I can say that I am well aware that there is a nursing procedure that is standardized. That's nothing new. But it is a fact that in the case of the same disabilities, the same diseases in different federal states often arise a different classification. Or: We know that someone who is currently in a home or in a hospital is classified there quite differently than if he is already at home with the same complaints. Therefore, we must insist that there is a more just classification, because everyone who has a suffering – no matter in which state he is at home, whether he is in the hospital or at home – has the right to be classified equally. I believe that if you use comparative data here, you will certainly find the opportunity to make improvements. I should like to ask you again, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, to end the fight for care: not because it does not help us opposition parties – of course this is of great benefit to us! – but it does not help the caregivers in particular. And I may also ask you to keep promises, because it was the Chancellor who promised, as part of an interview with the journal “BIZEPS-INFO” before the National Council election, that the care money will be adjusted to inflation. If there were this inflation adjustment, we would not have many financing problems that we have today. Then many caregivers would be easier to get over the rounds. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[18:31]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: The two by Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24633	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[18:31:58]] Mr Barbara Riener (ÖVP): Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The article-15a agreement on 24-hour care is on the table. What's clear? – It is clear that in June of this year we created a good legal basis for legalising the 24-hour care provided by the Home Services Act and the revision of the Industrial Code. It is clear that the Federal Care Money Act has created the basic conditions for promoting a 24-hour care. However: The durability is not yet quite clear. The guidelines, Mr Federal Minister for which you are responsible alone, distinguish between self-employed and self-employed, while the performance is always the same. The promotion is therefore not based on the performance, but on how it is provided. Another point you have raised today in a daily newspaper, where you say you are excited whether legalisation fails or not, because you expect not even 1,000 caregivers to join in the middle of next year. I'm just wondering: If these forces are insured in their home country, do they have to register with us? - Again unclear. Or: In the Committee we are presented with a proposal for an Article 15a agreement, as Sabine Mandakhon pointed out, and the asset limit is estimated at € 5 000, according to the Committee you speak in the media of € 7 000, and finally I was able to read today in the same daily that you are even for the abolition of the asset limit – but not only in the 24-hour care at home, but also in the care home. This is not quite clear to me, because in the nursing home I have a round-the-clock care, I am provided in all areas of life – “life assurance” is called this in the state welfare law. On the other hand, if I'm home and the washing machine is broken, the stove is broken, the roof is leaking, then I need the money. So there is a difference in need. Mr. Bundesminister Buchinger, you have also stated in the Committee that care services are deductible from family members. Mr Tamandel pointed out that this was not the case. After some research, I have to say she was right. [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: Who is right?]] - My colleague Tamandl! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] It can only be disbursed for spouses and children, but not for parents. Perhaps we can do this with a future tax reform? It is very unclear, Mr Minister, but perhaps we can create clarity together. You, Mr. Federal Minister, are against the extension of the amnesty. Unfortunately, you have remained guilty of the answer to a question in the Committee. I asked you to say what you thought of it: In the Federal Caring Act, the benefits are limited by 50 hours at all stages of care. The care is also one of these auxiliary activities. Wouldn't it be possible to raise this border? Then there would be realistic care allowance classifications. My previous speakers have already pointed this out. We may not need any more special arrangements for dementia disease if that is the case. We may not need any additional support. Mr Minister, the ÖVP has good proposals: Let's talk about it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24697	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[18:36:08]] Ursula Haubner (BZÖ): Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Much has been promised on the part of the Social Democrats just before the election. Now, after the election, little was held. This is well known, and it is also evident during care. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's not what you're saying!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Before the election, the care emergency has been called out, the increase in the care allowance has been promised, after the election you show relatively little commitment and togetherness to create a quiet and above all legal model for care at home. [[Abg. Riepl: That's what caused you, the emergency!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's terrible how you distance yourself from your policy!]] You are strong only – and this is expressed in all the words – when it comes to the daily hack in the coalition. Mrs Riener, I appreciate what you said very much and in terms of content. I can emphasize a lot of things. I'm just wondering, When is this coalition talking to each other? [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Always! We're talking continuously!]] It was now half a year to get things to the point. I say if the ÖVP were in opposition, that would be clear to me. But you've been asking the coalition partner to do something for weeks. I believe that there should be other ways and other ways, especially as regards the issue of abolishing the limit on assets. [[Abg. Riepl: Mrs. Haubner, you've had your chance already!]] Once again, Minister Bartenstein says that he has constitutional concerns about discrimination against self-employed caretakers, it is said again that the cap is to be abolished. Mr Aubauer has been very committed to this. The Federal Minister then says that he actually does not need the asset limit either. An amnesty extension is called by the ÖVP. I have the feeling that political power struggles are carried out here on the back of the elderly and in need of care. It is already a very strange game that shows itself here in front of our eyes. Mr Buchinger, I think you cannot be satisfied with this model if you receive legitimate criticism from all sides or in many areas. It is precisely this limit that now also provides a new confusion. The Vorarlberger or the Niederösterreicher have agreed with you that they can remove this limit. From the Upper Austrian head of state I have read that he is considering that one might do the same. That is why I would like to make the request that I have already made to the committee; perhaps it will find a majority today, including your support. [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Federal Minister, you are, of course, the minister responsible, but I do not think that this is the responsibility of the entire government. They would have had six months to find optimal conditions for a good solution here, for example, that the parties concerned would be made eligible for the promotions and that, as has been said, the asset limit would definitely fall. The reasons have already been very drastic and properly presented by my previous speakers. You could have increased the care allowance; There have been enough applications on the part of the opposition. We all know that, and I don't say anything new: Care and care is no longer an individual risk, but a major social challenge due to demographic development, and it also requires a solidarity system. And old people can certainly not get back at home with this model, as it is here, because there is no sustainable financing from means of taxation, there is no annual guarantee of the care money, and what I would like to point out – but I believe it is already working on it – there is no acceleration of the care funds and a further relief of caregivers who have to be available around the clock 365 days a year. What is also a special concern to me – and you, Mr Federal Minister, have already indicated that you find this very positive –: How does the expansion of the low-end offer in day care look like? [[Abg. Riepl: Why didn't you do all that last year as you were in the government? I wonder!]] It is precisely this day care that caregivers need very much. What is available here and what is being done all around the coalition is really a witness to poverty for this government. I only quote your party colleagues from Upper Austria, Social Councillor Ackerl, who is very well known for his sharp tongue and for his striking words. He says to the whole thing: It's an applied chaos. - I don't have anything to add to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24855	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haubner is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e24897	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[18:41:58]] Member Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig(SPÖ): Mr President. Minister! Yes, when it comes to caring, the moods sometimes go up. I would like to have a more honest discussion, and I would also like to have a less political discussion, because this area, as Mr Hofer has mentioned, is simply a far too important area. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Right, Mrs. Colleague!]] It's about people, it's often about our parents, and that's why this care debate is so affected. That is why I would also like her to be guided more honestly. I would just like to say to Mrs Riener: It's a shame you didn't know. The law has been in place since July 2007, and it has been half a year that you, as a Member of Parliament, inform yourself about the laws you decide. I can only offer you the following: I have written a paper which, I think, contains quite a lot of information. I can send them to you by e-mail so you can know how the 24-hour care at home can be done legally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Riener: I know that!]] Secondly, Mrs Riener: You have also mentioned tax deductibility in the Committee. We say this again: It is possible under § 34 of the Income Tax Act. [[Abg. Tamandl: But that's not right!]] You should also be a little better informed in this causa. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also find it very peculiar – I would like to say almost – if the Greens, who always want to comply with the laws, express themselves in this area for the extension of the amnesty. I cannot understand this at all, Mrs Lunacek. What makes it better for caregivers when they work illegally for 24 hours? What makes it better? The legal care according to the current model, on the other hand, offers some significant improvements for the caregivers, but also for the people cared for. You will also know, Mrs Lunacek, that there will be a uniform federal promotion, that there will be a federal, uniform legislation, with the laws that we have passed, and that there will above all also be the federal uniform quality standards. [[Abg. Riener: Mandak is her name!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Lunacek is not here at all!]] I think these are all points that you must not ignore, although I already know that the uncertainty – if you want to say so – is great among people. However, ladies and gentlemen, the opposition parties and, unfortunately, our coalition partners have also made massive contributions to this. We would all be invited to inform the people and to take the fears of them instead of making them even more anxious by always saying that it is all no longer manageable and it is all so awfully complicated. [[Abg. Riener: We inform them!]] I say it again: There are very good federal uniform regulations, and above all we all know that the 24-hour care is a small part of the large care complex, and that a man is mainly in the Social Ministry with Federal Minister Buchinger, who is aware of this responsibility, this great challenge to 100 percent.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25021	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[18:45:15]] Member of Parliament Karl Oellinger(Green): Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's a bit difficult: a complex theme, late hour, and you somehow have the impression that nothing moves but the ping pong. [[Abg. Riepl: Seven is it first!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] I find this relatively inflexible. – It's not that late, yes, I know. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The Van der Bellen is already at home, isn't it?]] - Please! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this issue would deserve a proper debate. Article 15a Agreement Federal/ Länder: Is she good? Is she bad? – Mrs Lapp, I'll be right back. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] No, she's not good. From the approach's classification, it would be planned to establish a uniform system between the federal government and countries. But now we notice, and it was also discussed and is also discussed here in this hall: There are different rules, at least in terms of assets, for countries. In other words, there is little to be noticed of a uniform system that we would have wished for, which the Federal Minister would have wished. [[Abg. May. Lap: Quality standards!]] [[Abg. Riepl: It is better than no agreement at all!]] I say quite clearly to you that we are in favour of extending the Amnesty Scheme, and to you, Mrs Lapp: I'm saying something about your argument. Essential parts of the 24-hour care are not yet regulated and yet unsolved, and overall, a comprehensive and systematic processing of this theme is not at all recognizable in the entire care area. We need an overall concept for care and care. But there is nothing to be noticed of this, nor of the fact that the 24-hour care would be a part of it. I would also like to say a simple reason for this: Mr Hofer's request to waive income and wealth limits is right and has something to do with it, because any benefit under the Federal Care Money Act – and in principle it is also the grant – must not, of course, depend on income and wealth, because the care allowance is the only social benefit in this Republic, as far as I can look at it, the only one... – no, it's not the only one... – No, the unemployment benefit is already income dependent! [[Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger: unemployment benefit!]] [[Abg. May. Lap: Family aid!]] In the amount, unemployment benefit is dependent. [[Abg. Riepl: Family aid!]] And in this case, in the care allowance, we have an income-independent performance. Only – this is addressed to both the FPÖ and the BZÖ –: We are in favour of abolishing this income and wealth limit, and we will also support the request, but I would have liked to have heard it – and even more of the BZÖ, because in the application only the asset is being recruited and not the income limit, I feel it is not as good – as we want to finance it! Our proposal was and is not to abolish the inheritance and gift tax, because it was quite, quite classic... [[Call the ÖVP: Why?]] - Why? You don't understand that, of course, that's possible. I'll explain this to you again: In one case, the inheritance and assets will be accessed, at €3 000, €4,000, €5,000. Now I am not talking about the 24-hour care, but about what you are doing in all your federal states in the field of stationary care: That's where it's broken down, every savings book is dissolved. That's not what the ÖVP is up to! That is why it is unfortunately hypocritical – I can only say – what you offer in this area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would be much more useful – and I would really appeal to you – of anyone who has a wealth, regardless of the care risk, if he passed on the property either through inheritance or through donation, and thus to another – most of the time the relatives – it would of course give an advantage to claim a fair share of taxes and from it, with regard to the care risk – which exists for everyone, regardless of his personal constitution and writtenness or of his social position, to create this social compensation for all. You're still not ready for this, and we're waiting for movement! That is why only one example – Mr Mandak has already suggested it – is: Vorarlberg. Yes, we are in favour of abolishing the limits of assets in Vorarlberg! But please also in Vorarlberg and in all other federal states, you will also be able to remove the Regress, which of course also provides for and allows family members – children, but also members of the second generation – to be asked for the checkout! [[Congratulation with Greens and BZÖ as well as with representatives of FPÖ and ÖVP]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's okay!]] And you all know what an unworthy thing this can be if the children or grandchildren in some federal states are then asked for a checkout – at the stationary care. [[Abg. Steibl: Yes, that's true!]] I am now with you, Mrs Lapp, because your opinion, I really saw it as a whole in any social sensitivity. I'm sorry I have to tell you that. But if you say that under this law everyone can afford the 24-hour care, then you have not understood anything about reality. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That must show me who!]] I'll charge you: A pensioner with 1 000 € gross and 4 about 500 or 600 € at the care level and still receiving the grant of 225 € depends on this 24-hour care. When he scratches all his money, he comes to just under €2,000 – everything! And of that he or she still has to live! [[Abg. May. Lapp: What's he doing now?]] Dear Mrs. Lapp, if you are already opening your mouth, you also remember that the gross pension of 1 000 € is the average pension of all and that the average pension of women is 800 € gross. - How is that supposed to go? How are you doing, Mrs. Lapp? [[As a result of the fact that the European Parliament has not yet taken part in the debate, the Commission has decided to refer the matter to the Court of Justice of the ……]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is the socially published SPÖ! ... don't understand anything at all!]] That you say here, this solution is one that is possible for everyone, I personally find shocking. I can only tell you: You can either not count, or you have no idea of reality. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Both! Both!]] I'm sorry! You can't express that better. Unfortunately, this is a subject which, of course, also goes into the emotion. I'm not gonna hide that. But I have to tell you honestly, I know enough people – and I suspect you know them too – who are affected by such situations. And to make yourself here and say it's all right with this 24-hour care, that's beyond! I do not condemn anyone who believes that with his contribution he has done something for the 24-hour care, but in view of the fact that the Minister himself says that if we create 1,000 people next year, we have already achieved a success, that is beyond. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: 5 percent alone!]] 1 000 people who are supposed to be the border for success or failure next year, Minister, that's not a threshold, that's nothing, because that means that 38 000... – or do not go from the caregivers, but we say that of the 10,000 who you are already saying up to 20 000 who have been there so far, 18 000, 19 000 do not care for the model. Yes, where do they leave, Mrs. Lapp? [[Abg. May. Lapp: Where do they look now?]] Where do they take care of them? – Of course, they will continue to do so as before, because they cannot afford it! Only you in this Parliament believe that they can afford it. We are not of this opinion, Mrs Lapp, to say this clearly again. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Yes, there will also be people who can afford it. I don't argue. But this requires a pension or family member who has a correspondingly high income. And that doesn't have three-quarters of the people in Austria. And they might also need a 24-hour service! – And where is your answer? – To say: That's all right, it's possible, that's not enough, I'm telling you that. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This request corresponds to the claims made by the ÖVP. We have already said that half a year ago, not because we are so enthusiastic amnesty extenders. [[Abg. May. Lap: You want to postpone it on the Sankt-Nimmerleins day!]] Of course I also see the argument of the Federal Minister, who says, in this way the model cannot establish itself, only: Which model can establish itself? – The model of self-employed care has already been deleted, no one can afford it at all, and the model of self-employed care can only afford those who have enough income! But where are those who don't have enough income? – In hospital care. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Get home!]] If they come there, that is, those who do not have enough income, then they will also be picked up by means of money and income over the Regress! That means that's the double perversion of every social care. If that's what you want – well, yes. But certainly not with our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25356	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25400	The next speaker was Mr Sebastian Eder. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[18:55:55]] Member Dr Sebastian Eder (ÖVP): Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Article-15a agreement on the joint financing of the 24-hour care is now the second step to further fix this particular care form – and it is a special care form. However, the acceptance of those concerned is difficult to estimate, especially if the amnesty regime falls. In any case, however, the agreement is only an instrument, but perhaps also an opportunity to deal with the future challenges arising from more and more caregivers. So you should give this model a chance – I think with or without applying the amnesty scheme. This is all the more so than a regular evaluation is planned anyway. No one can expect to close all the financial gaps that a low-income caregiver may have. There will always be severe cases. And I think most countries can handle it very well. Of course, one must pay particular attention to the further expansion of the mobile care services, because it is usually necessary for 24-hour care, and that is, I think, always forgotten. And offers in the interface area such as day care, short-term care, transitional care should occasionally be of course. And they should also be promoted, as I believe, in the Federal State of Lower Austria is already the case, or the case will be. [[Abg. Oil: Well, yes!]] In summary, one can say a step in the right direction. [[Abg. Oillinger: (a document holding in height) 8-hour care instead of 24!]] The overall reorganisation of care may and must continue to be considered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25470	The next item is the report by Mr Neubauer. I'll set the clock to the desired 5 minutes. - Please. [[18:58:14]] Member Werner Neubauer(FPÖ): Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! We liberals will certainly not do one in this House: We're not going to make any culprits here, whether someone can't count or if someone doesn't find himself professionally in the matter. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That's a statement!]] We will certainly not do that, ladies and gentlemen, even though Mr Haidlmayr should not like it. The following week I was very upset about this, and I am saying this here too, when, during a very intensive committee meeting on social matters, we suddenly learned that former National Council President Khol has demonstrated 250 seniors here in front of the House on the topic of care. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is populism pure! This has nothing to do with the care and the theme that is so highly sensitive – and that has not benefited the whole thing! On the contrary: It's done a lot of damage to the thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I should like to express this very openly. And a President who has always stressed here in the House, where Mr Spindelegger is now sitting, that it must be quite clear that there is no demonstration in front of the House. – President Khol has countercared himself with this, and this gives a very bad light to this function, which he once performed so worthyly. But let's get back to the topic of care. There's a survey – I've already brought it here – that 86 percent of the respondents in Austria are voting for something like senior gardens. – Perhaps the ladies could also listen a little bit, that would not be bad at all; especially those of the ÖVP who have a problem with the care anyway. [[in the direction of Dr. Brinek and Steibl, who are in front of the first bank series and who are talking to Members of the European Parliament, Neugebauer and Grillitsch.]] – 86 percent have spoken on the topic of senior gardens, 48 percent are for family care, and 43 percent are for mobile service, for home care. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In view of the proposals made by Mr Hofer, Mr Oellinger, all here in this House who are willing to make a positive contribution to the care and contribute to this – except for the ladies who are still very noisyly disrupting the meeting here – I would really ask that we come to a solution here at last, after a year. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Sorry! ...!]] I have already stressed here that the Commission has completed its work with all the experts over a year ago to ensure care – and all these proposals are under way. It can't be that, after these wishes, after this survey, in which the wishes of the people were clearly expressed, there is still no solution! Government, my Ladies and gentlemen, not to meet the needs of the population, but to govern with the needs and for the needs of the population! I can only hope that this government will not suffer from a nursing amnesia, because that would be really bad. Then we would have no hope of finding a solution next year. At the time, we liberals have already presented a model which, among other things, has already outlined Mr Hofer. We already said: If we valorize the care allowance, we define the care in the Constitution – then we would not always have this unworthy discussion here in the House, as is the case with pensions – and we increase the gross domestic product share in the expenditure for care. Experts tell us that we would then have 25 years of warranty in which this care model would also have existed. We believe that there should be no links and no right on such issues, but only one forward for care. In this sense, I really wish I had the heart to let us get through, that there should finally be a solution to this issue. A very small Bonmot, Mr. Federal Minister, I would like to tell you: 2.9 percent of pensions have been fixed as the highest level for pensions today. – I have a report that there will be an increase of 3.5 percent in Linz’s nursing homes from next year onwards. So that's more than what the pension increase is. And do you know what the cause is? – Two years ago, these homes were divided into their own society by the city of Linz. And do you know what the Court of Auditors said at the time? – That the heads of the home are hopelessly under-employed; and he has therefore proposed that you should employ four heads of homes at the eight homes that Linz has, and not pay attention to, because that would be in line with the effort. Now, the Social Democratic Councillor, Ackerl, who has been quoted so many times today, is making a new home order also by me, and in this says that every home must have an obligation to have a director – contrary to the statement in the Court of Auditors report! – and this costs the city sensational € 16.3 million more. [[Abg. Oils: No, that's not it! Four directors?]] And that's supposed to be the city of Linz now? [[Abg. Broukal: Four home leaders?- Oh, my God!]] For all the heads of the home! You need instead of four eight now. [[Abg. Broukal: A home manager earns € 2 million a year?- Oh, my God!]] That's where I've got to tell you: With all these percentage points, there is simply something wrong in social affairs, ladies and gentlemen. 22 per cent of the costs can currently be paid by the city of Linz and a total of 68 per cent must be remunerated. Something's going wrong! There must finally be something for the government parties to think about, otherwise the care system will finally fall behind the bankruptcy. There really cannot be links and not right in the care, but always just forward, ladies and gentlemen! Please take this to heart!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25601	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: (on the Abg. May. "I agree with the request of the Greens," she says.]] [[19:05:08]] Deputies Mag. Gertrude Auber(ÖVP): Madam President. High house! On behalf of the Green Group, Mrs Haidlmayr. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: “I agree!”]] We work with SPÖ in a very successful coalition. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oil: Ah? Bravo!]] We stick to agreements, we are team-reliance, and we have undertaken not to vote against our partner, but together. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: That deserves a applause!]] [[Abg. Mandak: Let's not exaggerate it!]] We work together for something and not against each other. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Steibl: The SPÖ also has to write in the main book!]] On the subject, ladies and gentlemen: It is confusing for me that the SPÖ is currently not ready to extend the amnesty regime with the People's Party. What does that mean? – The affected have just four weeks to inform themselves: four weeks to study complicated legal models. The information is too late, Minister. The information reaches the people concerned far too late, and this creates unnecessary time pressure on the elderly. We wanted to get people to worry about this, but we unfortunately hit deaf ears with it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] I'm still in a position to find justice gaps that we should close quickly, ladies and gentlemen. For example: Many callers and letter writers to the Senior Confederation complain and cannot understand why it is possible that wealth limits apply in a federal state, but not in other federal states. Why can a person get a promotion in Vienna only if he does not have 7 000 euros, while in Lower Austria this is different? Is that fair? – We should close such justice gaps. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is an incentive for me, ladies and gentlemen. This topic is not ad acta today. [[Abg. Pendl: No man says that!]] We will continue to strive for a sustainable system of care and care; we will continue our efforts... – If you wish, you will be happy to speak. [[Abg. Broukal: Exactly! Here you go best to Mr. Molterer!]] I think there's still talk time. Mr Broukal, come here, tell us what you have to say! [[Abg. Broukal: I would only be interested: What is in Tyrol and Upper Austria?]] I don't understand. We will continue to work for a just and manageable system of care and care at home, because – that should also be said – care needs visions. We should make it possible for all those who want to live in dignity at home. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[19:08]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[19:08:21]] Deputies Sigisbert Dolinschek (BZÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the care sector in particular is not suitable to fight for any longer in the coalition, which makes sense and does not make sense. Mr Buchinger, I am right if you say that the extension of the amnesty in illegal care on the one hand is a barrier and contributes to the fact that the support is not accepted, but also to the right of Mr Bartenstein, who says that this funding model, as it is now available, is, above all, insufficient and too few for self-employed care. But meet somewhere! Increase this contribution, this promotion for self-employed care, and eliminate this illegal condition, because illegal care is not a matter of course! But it is also necessary to create the conditions so that it is also possible and manageable for Austrian citizens to take up legal care. It's always about how. In any case, a maximum of € 225 for an independent care, Mr. Federal Minister, from my point of view is simply too little. There is a promotion of €800 for the unself-employed. But these associations, which then employ these unself-employed ones, are in fact only taking off their employees, because they deserve a shmarr’n in these clubs, but have to do a huge amount. It is better if you work independently and provide the care in this form. However, self-employment needs to be greatly facilitated. In this direction, the chairman of the care association also argues that this is also possible if you raise the funds for self-employed care. In the long term, it will also not be possible to rework with a Slovak commercial license; an Austrian commercial license will be necessary to do so. Considering that more than 80 percent of people in need of care are cared for at home in Austria, that these people depend on home care in the long term, it is also necessary to create optimal conditions for a 24-hour care facility to be actually possible. The care must of course be manageable, just as quality and safe. That's not a question at all. However, there must also be a sufficient incentive for families to move illegal employment into legal employment. In order to ensure that, Mr Federal Minister, no additional financial costs are incurred, this support for the 24-hour service provided by the Support Fund should be increased to €500 in the case of independent caregivers. For this very reason, I now make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25837	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Dolinschek and Mr Cots has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25883	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[19:12:41]] Members Theresia Haidlmayr(Green): Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Aubauer, at the beginning of my speech, I will come to your remarks and tell you: You still have the chance to agree with us that the amnesty will be extended. Do not pretend that you could prevent your “evil” coalition partner from doing so, for if the “evil” is or is not, you knew that three weeks ago, but you still made the request to extend this amnesty! – But now trust They are no longer; the ÖVP has gone back into cover! And that's why I think that's so bad, Mrs. Aubauer, because you're blaming the people, the disabled people, the old people, and what you're not doing, because you're making these people hopes that you never fulfil – and you still believe these people are so stupid, not to hear that. That's the worst thing about it! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, on this alleged legalization. Mr Buchinger, you know very well: With regard to your objective of legalising the so-called illegal labour force by August 2008, 38 000 of these workers are still missing, because in the summer of 2006, you even spoke of 40 000. Where, then, are these 38 000? Will then have to go home to those 19 000 people who are being cared for in this way – or, Minister, these people will have to look for another way of illegality, if they do not want to go to a home. Mr Minister, many do not want that. And people are smart when it comes to their naked survival when it comes to whether they can stay at home or not. I have already said this to you, Mr Minister, in another body: I think it's great how good old people are when it comes to it, because this idea is grand. For example, so-called new families are now being created. I don't know if you know that. A typical example: Mrs. Mayer needs assistance. Mrs. Mayer has a son and a grandson. Both are not married. Now they make it that of the two illegal caretakers who were always there, but from 1st. January 2008 no longer allowed to come under this title, one being the companion of the son and the other being the companion of the grandson. These two caregivers now come in the 14-day rhythm with a visitor's visa, stay there – and if they're already there, they can take care of the grandmother or the mother as well. This, Mr Minister, is the new systems that now have to take place so that people can somehow get through it. I can tell you: There is a new couple in Austria, with the age difference of these spouses being 47 years. Of course, the woman is the younger, because the older master is the one who needs care – and he has just married his caretaker. With this she is a family member – and out is the dance with this illegality, and both have something of it, because otherwise they would not have done it. I have also introduced these examples – I could list a few more – in the Federal Disability Advisory Council, under quotation marks. And here Mrs. Lapp has said – and I really don't think so much – that this new solution is good now, because now, at last, family ties that have always existed, namely, love bonds, so to speak, by saying: But now you do it! That these are the economic needs that lead to such constructions, Mrs. Lapp, you have either not heard – or do not even want to know. That is the way it is, ladies and gentlemen. Who believes that comes from 1. January 2008 anyone can still provide legal care if he employs two person caregivers is in error. These are really just more, very few, who can afford this: those who are lucky to have a high pension. I'll give you an example now. Mrs. Berger is one of those who are not lucky to have a high pension; this year, Mrs. Berger's net pension is €1,622, next year it will be €1080. Ms. Berger paid 16 500 € for the care during the year; 10 300 € were covered by the care allowance of level 5; 6 200 € were her own service. In other words, Mrs. Berger had to take €517 from her in the month; of €1,062 she stayed 545. Mrs Berger has now turned to an association that employs these women more or less. And now the care costs suddenly 25 200 €; that requires this institution. Even though some are now making a special eyelash: This institution is called Niederösterreichische Hilfwerk! – 10 300 € are covered by the care allowance, remains an amount of 14 900 €. At the same time, however, the Niederösterreichische Hilferwerk requires 790 € for mediation fees and 90 € for annual contributions, and this organization also collects 190 € per person per month, i.e. 380 €, for administrative expenses, whatever that is. The fact is, Mrs. Berger now has a self-performance contribution of €1 315 per month, but she only receives €1 080. – Mr Minister, this woman now has a minus – unlike before –! This woman can't write a copy either. And even if she could write something, she would still have a minute. This woman can consider whether she suddenly finds a “one ” in Slovakia by chance; sometimes one does not know his relationship – and if she is lucky, she finds two“ only ones. ” If that's the case, Mrs. Berger can stay home and don't have to go home. If Mrs. Berger doesn't have this luck, she'll have to go to a home! If this is a success, Mr Minister, as you say, I do not wish to have these successes in your place. It's not a success, it's a failure! Mr Minister, what happens to this regulation is nothing but that you put people in fear that people no longer know how to do it from 1. January 2008 will continue, and that you will put everyone in the crime with it! Now something about the Regrets' claims. Those federal states that demand Regress are so inventive that now a woman has come to have a producer who is still alive. She lives in Styria and I think he lives in Vorarlberg. Now she has suddenly received a share of the costs for her producer, whom she has not even met as a father. That's how far the Regrets go to family members. The rights of the rulings are eliminated, Mr Minister, to the fullest extent. And the income or wealth limit is also eliminated, because it is not a matter of getting 7 000 € to die, Minister. Otherwise, nothing remains, for if you need a lot of new hearing aids, for example, you have already consumed €6 000. They have the opportunity to hear nothing at either age – or to hang the funeral around anyone else. But more is not inside with 7 000 €. Minister, this is a shame! And we don't need this asset line. Austria is so rich that it affords the living situation of old and disabled people who depend on help, care and personal assistance. must and can also afford. It's just about whether you want it politically or not. You don't want it right now, and I think that's bad.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e25980	Mr Buchinger, President-in-Office of the Council, spoke as the last speaker in this debate. - Please, Minister. [[19:21:33]] Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin BuchingerVery much appreciated Madam President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs Aubauer, with some other representatives of our government partner ÖVP, complained that the new funding model and the labour law and industrial model, which provides the basis for the Article 15a agreement and which you are now presented with the decision, were complicated, incomprehensible, that no one knew how to register with the commercial authority and the local health fund, that there are different levels of support for self-employed and self-employed care, that the property limit is handled differently and that the whole is not understood. I find it almost inconceivable with what coolness these Members and you, Mrs Aubauer, are dissociating here from a regime which has been unanimously agreed by the government parties in several steps. I am sorry, Mrs Colleagues and colleagues, who have criticised this, that I now have to give you further help and have a educational function. [[Abg. Steibl: You don't have to give us any help! It's pretty slow for me, the alarm clock! Excuse me, please.]] I must briefly understand what the government partner has decided with us. It has begun with the Government Convention of January 2007. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] I'd ask you to be careful at least now! Now at least watch – and take note of the arguments! Maybe that will make it easier for you to argue. [[Abg. Steibbl: This is a naughtiness!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] President Dr. Eva Glavisch-Piesczek: I'm asking for peace! The Minister can, I believe, not speak; please, speak. Please, Mr. Minister, continue! [[Abg. Steibl: (in the direction of SPÖ) You are not social at all! Where is the social conscience of SPÖ? Look at this arrangement, and think!]] Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger You from ÖVP have here criticised the content of the new regulation, which we have agreed in the government. [[Continue]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Be careful with such things!]] I should like to point out to you that you have to endure this. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Wait for how cool this will be in January!]] If you are so generous in criticism, you should also be able to hold back if I give you the arguments. I ask you to rest for five minutes, because you listen to me for five minutes. I too have listened respectfully to you here on the government bank for many minutes, even if I disagreed with the content. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You didn't bring anything together!]] So: The Government Convention regulates that we jointly, SPÖ and ÖVP, set up a legal basis for the round-the-clock service at home. Labour law, social law and professional law – ladies and gentlemen, can you listen and talk at the same time? [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] It's easier if you just listen and talk afterwards. – Labour law, social law and professional law are a little more attention to the specificities of the self-employed... President Dr. Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek Dear colleagues, a little more attention! [[Further lively calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We are the opposition!]] [[giving the bell mark]] It is totally impossible to hold a debate like this! Please, report to the Minister if necessary – and at least give the Minister the opportunity to speak out! Please, Mr. Minister. Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger [[Continue]] The Government Convention provides that labour law, social law and professional law are to be adapted to the specificities of self-employed and self-employed employment for care services in the private household of a care worker. And then it says literally: ‘The aim of public support takes account of the extent of care, the need for care and the social situation.’ Furthermore, in this report of the Federal Government's project, which was unanimously decided in the Council of Ministers, is a scoretion by Minister Bartenstein and me, which we made in the Council of Ministers on 14 May. In February 2007, the aim was to create a new legal regime enabling 24 hours of care at home in self-employed and self-employed employment. “Under the leadership of the BMWA for the labour law and industrial law part, the BMSK for the social part will, together with the BMSK, conduct the necessary social partners’ negotiations and be expected to submit a joint proposal to the Council of Ministers.” This presentation to the Council of Ministers took place after an agreement had been reached with a chancellor's breakfast. That was 13th. ==References== German Chancellor Gusenbauer, Vice Chancellor Molterer, Federal Minister Bartenstein and I took part in this Chancellor's breakfast. [[Abg. Steibl: Breakfast doesn't interest us!]] And in these cornerstones of the care union between SPÖ and ÖVP, signed by Gusenbauer, Molterer, Buchinger and Bartenstein, stands inside: It has been agreed that assets in the form of cash or monetary value up to an amount of € 5 000 will not be taken into account if funding is used. - Quote. That's inside this punctuation: Funding amount for self-employed € 225 per month and € 800 per month for self-employed. That's part of this punctuation. It also provides for the cost participation of the federal states, 40 percent, as a prerequisite for continuation. This has been decided by 1. ==References== Then there were financial compensatory negotiations. In these financial compensatory negotiations, what was decided in the punctuation was implemented in an Article 15a agreement. This draft Article 15a agreement was the basis of the financial compensatory negotiations, which I did not lead, but rather the Minister of Finance and Deputy Chancellor Molterer. You will find the asset limit of €5 000, as you will find the funding amount of €225 for self-employed and €800 for unemployed. So: What we do from the government The Council of Ministers and what has been agreed in terms of financial compensation are: 1 : what is politically between SPÖ and ÖVP, what has been agreed in the Council of Ministers. If you distance yourself from the ÖVP today, then you will distance yourself from your own government colleagues, and I think that is actually unfair. This is not good for people either, because this can only lead to an uncertainty that is harmful to this regulation. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I take this criticism expressly from Mr Eder, who has said what I also say here in a factual and correct way: Let us give the new model that we have developed together, which is a compromise between Minister Bartenstein and me, between Gusenbauer and Molterer, is also a compromise with nine federal states, and let us give this model a fair chance! It has deserved this opportunity because it is right, ladies and gentlemen, what Mrs Lapp says: [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] It is the first model in the field of care and care that overcomes the fragmentation of nine federal states. We now have a uniform level of support for self-employed and self-employed people, we have a uniform quality assurance, we have a single body where this is requested, we have a law for all nine federal states. We have only allowed differentiation in one area: in the case of the asset accounting – and that at the explicit request of two EIA-led federal states. [[Abg. Steibl: Congratulations on being a good man! Good man!]] And this wish has been respected by Mr Vice-Chancellor, and I have respected it, and we are now implementing it. That's a very, very big advantage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs Riener, I am still speaking to you personally. Please, give me a minute of your attention! [[Abg. Steibl: That's uninteresting what you say!]] They voted in favour of a criticism, which has also been formulated by a member of the opposition committee, namely that it would not be possible for children to be taxed today for parents in the field of care and care. [[Abg. Tamandl: This is not about a maintenance service!]] Mrs Riener, you have thus contributed to the uncertainty of people, because you should only have inquired of the Minister of Finance and learned that this is, of course, the case. [[Abg. Steibl: This is a groundless filth that you talk down there!]] This deductibility is given. There is, of course, a regulation in the § 34 Income Tax Act, which, in the event of a legal or moral obligation, ensures the deductibility as an extraordinary burden. [[Abg. Steibl: It's about the interview! You have no idea!]] The legal basis is § 143 ABGB, which stands the legal and moral obligation for children and on the basis of which an extraordinary burden is also possible for grandchildren. Why do you repeat here, Mrs Riener, an argument that has already been rejected by me in the committee. [[Abg. Riener: Wrong!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs Riener was right! You don't know yourself, Minister!]] I'm disappointed that You do not help people to benefit from rights, but that you contribute to an uncertainty. I don't think that makes sense. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I know, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP that you had some problem in the past with the care and care, but let's look into the future. [[Abg. Steibl: You have a problem because...!]] Do not be part of the problem, be part of the solution to the problem! [[Abg. Steibl: Solve this! That's your job!]] Solve with us together in today's decision-making, in this Article-15a agreement, with a fair model of the Article-15a agreement, that difficulty that has so far existed in that there has not been a pliable legal and quality-secure possibility of care at home! ==References== ==References====External links== January 2008 even co-financed by the federal states. [[Abg. Steibl: Who can afford this? How many have registered?]] Mrs Aubauer said: This coalition is successful! – Yes, this coalition is successful, including in the field of care and care with this new 24-hour care scheme. Voices You are therefore in favour of this regulation! I ask each individual personally: Admit yourself to the regulation you agree to today, communicate it, and stand behind it – and do not criticize it again when you get out of here! We can't need that. We need a common solution for people. We must give people safety and care, including from 1. January 2008. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26375	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the agreement under Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the countries on the joint promotion of the 24-hour care... [[Members of the ÖVP leave the meeting room.]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: The steibell is already going!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Exodus at the ÖVP! Set the decision-making capacity!]] I would ask for peace during the voting process. [[giving the bell mark]] I repeat: We shall vote on the request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, the conclusion of the agreement in accordance with Article 15a of the Federal Constitutional Act between the Federal Government and the countries on the joint promotion of the 24-hour care in 309 d.b. the authorisation to be granted. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on income and non-profit grants under the Federal Caring Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on social and legal protection for caring families. I again ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner and others on the abolition of the asset limit for the promotion of 24-hour care. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the extension of the amnesty in connection with the 24-hour service. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: We want twelve months!]] – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner and others on the increase in support of 24 hours of self-employed care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the 357th report of the Committee. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by the majority. (E 46.) Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs, its report 358, B.C.E. to take note of this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who want this to be a sign of approval. – This is, in turn, accepted by the majority. [[19:35:29]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (298, B.C.E._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which the unemployment insurance law 1977, the labour market policy financing law, the labour market promotion law, the labour market service law, the labour contract law-adaptation law, the insolvency-insurance law and the income tax law are amended (361 d.b.) President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Schade is speaking. I'm asking you to go to the speaker's desk. Good evening! 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[19:36:01]] Deputies Mag. Birgit Treasure (Green): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We welcome the inclusion of free employees in the Unemployment Insurance Act and in the Insolvency Insurance Act. This is another important step towards reconciling this precarious form of employment to a normal working relationship. We also welcome the changes to education. – Unfortunately, I am already at the end of the explanations of the positive part for us. Well camouflaged behind these very positive points – but unfortunately also for the public – decide It is a legislative amendment which is a humiliating expression for job-seekers and future job-seekers. Everyone can get into the situation quite quickly today – a flexible labour market is the reason for this – to have to claim the insurance claim from unemployment insurance. 546 days today averages an employment relationship, which is not even one and a half years. This is precisely why it is so important to be insured for transition periods between two jobs, because the AMS's services, both financial and advice, may also provide further training, are an insurance benefit acquired on the basis of regular contributions. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, what are you doing? – They turn this insurance contract back on one side and gradually turn it into a frenzied package for job-seekers. And that is totally unacceptable! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why I, together with my colleague, Mr Oellinger, tabled a very comprehensive amendment which will be distributed to you in writing because of its scope. I would now like to explain, in the course of my further remarks, the content of this request in gross terms. Point one: They tighten the rules of visibility again and further. It is about introducing a minimum working time of 20 hours; 16 hours for parents with child care obligations under the age of ten. But what does that mean? – That means in concrete terms: The mother of an 11-year-old daughter who does not have a corresponding care offer, does not even have an immeasurable grandma, and still cannot work 20 hours, loses her unemployment benefit. Oh, yeah, I forgot. You also find that from now on it must be reasonable to commute 1.5 hours a day for a part-time job. That means, to the 20 hours the commuting time is added. So we have 26 hours this woman has to be available to the labour market. Does it look like the compatibility of work and family for you? – This is unacceptable for us! I would not like to remind you of what Mrs State Secretary Marek said in committee about this criticism. She said there must be some culsion solutions. - I suppose you meant that well. I think she meant that. But something like that can't be! It can't be that we're going to pass laws that even members of the government call for Kulanz to be implemented! Job seekers can claim legal certainty just like any other person in Austria. We need to make sensible and life close to laws here, and we should not do something about a Murk's path of culture. That is why our request calls for the maintenance of 15 hours of minimum working time. Point two: Data collection by the AMS and the handling of these data. – As you know, no, you know? I suppose you don't know! Do you know what to register? I will give you just a few, specifically four examples: health restrictions for job seekers and their relatives (including life-mates) – this will be registered; Circumstances of the resolution of working conditions – that is, the question of whether, if one was too “gosherded” has been terminated; penalties for misbehaviors; Affection of strike and lockout. Ladies and gentlemen, these are data that are central to the AMS support?- Oh, my God! The summit – Mr Maier has publicly criticised this himself – is that these data can also be passed on to so-called partners of the AMS, but also to employers. That's exactly what's in it! I quote Article 25(8) of the Labour Market Promotion Act of the template: ‘To employers may... Data are transmitted that are necessary to justify employment and to assess the professional suitability of job seekers.” – citationers. Okay. But who evaluates what data that is? – The AMS! The AMS forwards the data and then controls whether it was legal. The job seeker himself cannot defend himself. Mrs Riener said in committee that she sees no problem at all. Mr Maier, I am curious if you will then agree to this point. At least we won't agree to him. We expect the data subjects to agree and demand that such data transfers be clearly recorded. There is still much to be said about criticizing this law. Our amendment has many other points, such as the mediation to the socio-economic enterprises. We have a proposal for the valorization of unemployment benefit, emergency aid et cetera. There would also be a lot to say about the somewhat peculiar system with the self-employed: that after only five years of paying in unemployment insurance, they will then receive a right to unemployment benefit for all time. There's no time to explain all of this. There is no time, because we have much too few meetings and because everything is always so pressed. And one reason why we rarely have meetings – that was told to me – is that it is not reasonable for Members from the federal states to commute to Vienna so often. [[Abg. Oillingers: This is what we are doing with the rules of visibility!]] You, ladies and gentlemen, do not think it is appropriate to commute to Vienna as often as possible, but with this novel, you are setting out a criminal obligation for people in this country. That's embarrassing! This law is simply embarrassing in many parts. We are not going to agree to these camouflages for job-seekers in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26578	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Johann Maierzu Wort. You know the legal provisions. - Please. [[19:43:48]] Deputies Mag. Johann Maier(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor has listed data types in the draft labour market service law, including health-related data and said that these data can also be passed on to institutions and agencies. I'm correcting: This was restricted after consultation of the Data Protection Council. Health data may be exclusively – and I want to retain that with all the emphasis! – to assess the employability of the labour market service to the competent social security institution and to the competent social assistance institution as well as to the labour market service. Any transfer It is necessary to log health data. A transfer to employers is expressly prohibited.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26638	First of all, I declare that the amendment tabled by the honourable Members, Mr Oellinger, Mrs Freundes in his fundamentals has been sufficiently supported and therefore properly introduced. According to § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26806	Mrs Csörgits is next spoken. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[19:45:16]] Member Renate Csörgits(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to address three important points in this amendment to the Unemployment Insurance Act. The first point Especially at the heart is the positive completion of the security of Free Servants. I have already found under another item on the agenda today that this really created a social policy milestone, because in addition to health insurance, the health insurance, but also the weekly allowance, a security in the event of unemployment could also be achieved. More than 70 000 people in Austria are affected positively. This is an excellent advantage for these people, because they now know in the area of unemployment that they get a corresponding performance and do not fall into the groundless. I am very happy about this and thank you very much for the fact that this has come about. The next step, as I said, will now be necessary to extend labour law to include the benefit of labour rights. As a further positive point, I would like to mention that it has succeeded in achieving a really good and excellent improvement in education. The waiting period has been reduced from three years to one year. The educational career can now also be shared. And the payment has been increased. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is, I think, a good step, because it is a good way to do so in connection with the ever-changing economy and the re-adjustment of workers. But I believe that further steps will be necessary. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility of a paid education exemption for workers. The next point is social security for self-employed persons. As a draft law, there is an option model for self-employed persons in connection with unemployment insurance and a precautionary model in relation to occupational health care. This is part of the Government Convention. I want to explain this from my side in such a way that I believe that this is an important part. Not every self-employed person will probably make use of it, but there are very many self-employed in micro and micro-enterprises, mainly women who are often in the situation that their operations have to be locked up. On this occasion I would also like to remind you that many self-employed people have become self-employed in recent years, because they have not found any other opportunity in the labour market. Many have done well, they have a flourishing company, perhaps also some self-employed people, but some have gone out of the air in the course of the journey. That is why I believe that this protection for self-employed people is another step, especially in the field of small people, especially for women who are self-employed. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26898	The next item is Mr Kickl's speech with 6 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please. [[19:48:54]] Member Herbert Kickl (FPÖ): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am grateful to the colleague of the Greens for the word'mutability', because there is indeed much in this paper in the arrogance. Therefore, “mutability” is also a good keyword, because it is also necessary to apply this criterion to the debate which is being held here, in particular, on how it is conducted here in an intracoa-litionary way – and that in whole, completely elementary areas, where parts of the ÖVP are obviously dissociated from what has been done before, and then torpedo the common decisions. If this is, as it were, the basis on which sustainable future solutions are to be built in the whole, very essential areas of this country's social policy, then good night Austria! That's all you can say. Then you must not wonder, however, that one Murks comes out after another and that there are no good solutions, but only half-heartednesses and things, where in truth there are errors, from loud things that are not correct in detail, only so engulfs. And that is exactly the point, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Your former party observer has ruptured coalitions!]] This unemployment insurance law is in itself a good thing, but: What does that mean, “in itself ”? – That is, the possibility according to it is a good thing. Once again, they do not allow this possibility to become a reality. You just can't do that. And this is the red thread that passes through one request after another, which you present in the labour market policy field. This accusation must be made, in particular, by the SPÖ, that it simply does not succeed in putting important concerns into a legislative text, where there is no chronic flaw, where it does not once create a balanced right of balance between the interests of workers and the interests of employers. - That's the point. This is every time a shaky level we have to deal with! You don't take it away; it's going to be pretty slow to your mark. You don't have to let us like this, it's your own experts in the Chamber of Workers who tell you that. These are the people who do well for you and who do not find for this law a predicate other than that it is in fact socially unbalanced. I don't know if you can remember the ladies and gentlemen. Or is the trade union struma, the BAWAG-Trauma, the Caribbean-Trauma still so deep that everything that comes from there no longer belongs to the comrades on the government bank? – Probably it must be that way, because otherwise you would pick up one or another, which was stimulated by interesting things. If you, ladies and gentlemen, already choose to devote your full concentration to the flexicurity spirit that we think is more of an unspirit, then it is indeed commendable – I admit – that you will be able to provide the opportunity for self-employed people to secure themselves in unemployment insurance. This is an interesting approach. – So far, so good, you can say. But first of all, you – and you have to ask the question again – either forget it or you have once again deliberately refrained from taking into account the ever-growing group of small employees, who are not slightly employed because it is so funny to dance on several “employment days”, but who do so because they do not find work with which to get out. In turn, you have not taken this solution into account – and this is a serious defect in our view. Secondly, If you look at the area of self-employed, then you must not do it as you have done, because there are advantages on the one hand – benefits that are quite related to the possibility of social abuse in the solution you are presenting them, and that these benefits are exclusively for the group of self-employed – and the costs of which, as you say, solidarity of the self-employed must be borne in essence. That is another culprit that is not justified! And the paradox is that this system, this voluntary insurance system, only works because there is this imbalance of burden distribution. From our point of view, it is therefore interesting if one speaks of these two solidarity communities, then you should look a little better at what the Chamber of Labour proposes to you, because these solidarity communities, which are also different to be defined... – I would also expect an ideological access, especially of the Greens, when it comes to distinguishing a solidarity of citizens from a solidarity of non-citizens, and this principle, which is rightly criticized here, because it is unfair, once again apply in this area. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What you, ladies and gentlemen, are definitely presenting here is, as it were, a doorstep opener also towards social abuse, because one can basically create a great and great security with a dumping contribution. And we are not available for social abuse in the area of unemployment benefit. That's something we want to turn off. There are a number of injustices, for example, that in the event of savings in companies or in businesses, the result is that the worker has reduced working hours and has a reduced remuneration for keeping his work. However, if he still has to “marry” into unemployment, the basis of his unemployment relationship is this reduced fee. That's so to speak, the thank you he gets for giving up at first and the social state is not on the bag. That's something we think is unfair. That is why I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, vote I would like to ask you to accept this amendment. Then you can at least make what you've fabricated here a little bit better.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e26997	The amendment tabled by Mr Kickl and other Members is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: The next speaker was Mrs Dr Karl, speaking for a period of 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[19:56:00]] Deputies Mag. Dr Beatrix Karl (ÖVP): Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! I am very sorry that Mr Buchinger is no longer here, because he has also said in his final words that we must give people safety. - I'll give him all the right. We have given people security with the care amnesty in so far as we have excluded them from certain administrative criminal offences. But you know: I would have expected a Social Minister to give further security to people, that he would also give them the assurance that, if they were employed by illegal supervisors, they should not be afraid of being used for post-payments. He could have offered this legal certainty as a social minister to those concerned. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now to my colleague, honey. You mentioned a lot of criticisms; let me take one of them first. They have criticized the fact that the impact of strike and lockout is also to be announced. – If you were to know the unemployment insurance law, you would know that § 13 of the Unemployment Insurance Act provides that if unemployment is the direct consequence of a stopover caused by strike, the payment of unemployment benefit must be stopped for the duration of the strike. It is also prohibited to provide unemployed people with work on strenuous companies. All of this is an expression of the state's neutral attitude in case of strike or lockout. So it is very likely that this information on the impact of strike and lockout is important for the execution of the legal tasks of the AMS. That is why we need to know about it. The inadequacy of this new government proposal has also been raised several times. Let me mention the following: The present government template expresses the mutual obligations existing in the labour market policy. The State has the duty to help everyone, that is, to communicate and qualify. The unemployed person has the duty to participate actively and constructively. And I think we can demand that. We have also, as has already been said in praise, further improved training opportunities. This is an important step towards increasing the skills of workers. Qualification also plays an important role in the context of another action: In addition to the provision of unemployment benefit or emergency aid, it will be easier to pursue school or university training. I also think this is a very important positive measure, which has not yet been mentioned. [[Abg. May. Honey: What do you say to the mother with the 11-year-old child?]] All in all, it is not possible to condemn this government proposal as you did. There are very many positive measures included in this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27108	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[19:59:21]] Deputies Sigisbert Dolinschek(BZÖ): Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The unemployment insurance law, as it is now to be amended, has few points that are positive. It is positive that free employees in unemployment insurance are now experiencing equality, just like real employees in terms of social security protection. This also applies to insolvency insurance. What is very incomprehensible to me – I understand very much that, of course, self-employed people, when they get into the situation that they do not have work, may get unemployment support; that is okay – which I understand less, however, is if, in the introduction of unemployment insurance for self-employed people, the raisins are picked out and subsidized through the solidarity of the self-employed. So I have relatively little understanding for that. The draft lacks important measures for better social security and for the further training of people seeking employment, whose aim is to bring them back to the labour market, i.e. to pursue an active labour market policy. The Chamber of Labour, in its opinion, has also raised a number of objections. I do not understand, in particular, the colleagues of the Socialist Party, that they do not rise to the barricades when it comes to the fact that self-employed persons now become virtually unemployed – which is already quite incomprehensible to me how to become unemployed. But in general: Okay, if it happens this way, it would have to be financed by a pot, which is also fed by the self-employed – and not by the large pot of the self-employed. I have to ask again, Minister of State: Will unemployment benefit be reduced in the future for those who are self-employed, or how? What does that look like? – That has not yet been answered. The fact that unemployment insurance for the self-employed is now being burdened with it is not to be seen. This is also criticized in the opinion of the Chamber of Labour. Of course, a meaningful involvement in existing unemployment insurance also requires that there should be no speculative participation in insurance. And that's a difference, because on the one hand, there's an opt-in for the self-employed, on the other hand, However, there is no such thing as for the self-employed. And it is true that you have the choice of a higher contribution base for the self-employed, but not for the self-employed. That's just no equality, Mr. Klubobmann Cap! How can you agree?- Oh, my God! – I don’t understand that at all, that’s impossible! Well, you've never worked, you've always studied, you've gone straight into politics. So no wonder! You don't understand. But there's enough... – Mrs. Trunk, that's what it is. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Those who work in the private sector and who can be threatened with termination every day still think a little differently about it. That's the difference. Ask your trade unionists how they think about it! They can't be happy about that. There may also be more social abuse in the case of self-employed workers. They have much more possibilities to do so. – That is therefore not understandable to me. This draft simply failed. There is unemployment benefit for self-employed people, there are strict sanctions for foot-and-mouth workers. It is likely that the money that is saved there will be re-placed to the self-employed in the pocket – like I understand –; just as from the solidarity community, where people have less money, money is simply put back into the others. The draft law is practically out of date. I just don't understand the SPÖ colleagues that they can agree with this at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27195	Mr Bartenstein spoke as the next speaker. - Please, Minister of State. [[20:04:03]] Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin BartensteinWomen's President! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In front of you and before us, from my point of view, is a very remarkable package on flexicurity, better social security for some of the greater flexibility that is required, keyword “adjustability provisions”. It is also a package containing elements that go towards social risk; the risk of unemployment concerns not only workers, but also, indirectly, self-employed, ‘voluntary unemployment insurance’ for the same. It is a package which also contains an essential element for improving lifelong and vocational learning. Mrs Csörgits has justifiably mentioned the educational career, the improvements made there, and I do not have to repeat that. This is a comprehensive package, which not only corresponds to the government agreement, but has also been negotiated in detail with the social partners, in this case even at the point and the point before the review was accompanied and initiated. It doesn't work better. I would like to thank everyone, not only the coalition partner, but also the social partners in particular. I believe that the inclusion of free workers in unemployment insurance and insolvency allowance insurance is an important and correct step, and I also believe that, although it will be an absolute minority programme, the possibility of being a self-employed person in unemployment insurance – by the way, Mr Dolinschek, not free of charge, but for 6 percent of the contributions of a self-appointed basis of assessment – is a real step. However, it is also a minority programme, because not only are the costs of 6 per cent significant, but also because the indefinite framework extension, which is also implemented by this proposal for such employees who have acquired claims as self-employed for more than five years, obviously significantly improves the situation of self-employed people. That's where we stand together. Because of the advanced time, but also from my side now, in the short term, to some criticisms. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know where the proposals for the definition of the rules on transparency came from? – On the one hand indirectly from the Supreme Court, because there are some things that are not established by law and should be fixed by law, and on the second by the practitioners of the AMS. This did not come from any party secretariats, it did not come from the interests, this came from the practitioners of the AMS who asked: What should we do if someone is available only 16 hours a week? – The practice is that part-time does not always start, but almost always, at 20 hours. And, with permission, if part-time jobs are only available at 20 and more hours, it is in the interest of the person concerned – even if it is a young mother – but also in the interest of the solidarity that it pays to say: 20 hours, 16 hours if appropriate care facilities are not provided. On the issue of data protection criticism, the expert, Deputy Maier, has immediately jumped in and put it right. I thank you for that. It has already been mentioned: This too is not due to Jux and Tollery, ladies and gentlemen, but rather to health restrictions which are important for the AMS, because a job seeker cannot be transferred to a place which could endanger health due to the given restriction. - That's the way it is. That adequate consideration of data protection has been paid to this. Not only the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office, but also the Data Protection Council has essentially not criticized the process and content and did not question it. Ladies and gentlemen! Flexicurity is not an Austrian, not a contemporary, not an unspiritual, but now a European concept. It was introduced under our presidency a little after Danish example into the Brussels discussion. This is precisely the way to strengthen, instead of these usual trade-offs between employers and workers, the need to link more social security in this Europe, this social Europe, so that there can be more flexibility of workers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Last, honourable Mr Dolinschek, the following: To construct a second pot here, in which self-employed will then pay, that would be a little complicated, I would mean. We are closely monitoring the development. We have formulated this law according to best knowledge and conscience in such a way that abuse can be largely excluded. If the experience shows that this is not the case, we will, of course, intervene, but I think that abuse, as I have said, can probably be excluded with great probability and we have a package in front of us today that bears the name ‘flexicurity’ and also the term ‘great package for greater social security in this country’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27269	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please. [[20:10:07]] Member Gabriele Heinisch-Hosek(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! For example, I would like to address the rules for student workers, and I think that if the Government Convention mentions the review of legal obstacles to job-seekers wishing to make further training, and in accordance with this government template, there is now the possibility that school or university education will be compatible with the provision of unemployment or emergency aid, if the availability for the employment office is available, then this is a really good way to reconcile these two areas. The second example I have chosen – it has been mentioned many times today – is the situation of free staff, with us knowing that more than half of the free staff are women. This phenomenon of atypical employment has lasted for more than two decades – globally, Europe-wide and now also in Austria. I may briefly quote Professor Emmerich Tálos, who has meant that this is a longer-term trend that is irreversible, then, I believe, all of us share this assessment. We know that it is a fact that in Austria, in the last ten years, the number of women with little employment has increased by more than 70 percent, that every fourth woman is a part-time worker, but only a very few men work part-time and that, I have already mentioned, half of all free workers are women. These three examples show that the market, which is increasingly a global market, is aimed exclusively at profit. That is why, in particular, we politicians have the obligation and have to pay attention to the fact that on the one hand we are trying to change this situation by including men in atypical employment relations, or that at all, more full-time jobs are created – although I know how difficult it is – that on the other hand, in the sense of a gender policy, we also ensure that measures are taken step by step that eliminate these inequalities. The government programme includes the elimination of the legal maladministration of free workers, which is why this government template includes their involvement in unemployment insurance, redundancies and protection of the Insolvency Insurance Act – the sickness and weekly allowance is still being dealt with in the course of the next item on the agenda. We're far from satisfied, you can believe me! It is still about paid entitlement to leave, protection of termination and minimum wage rules for this group of employees, mainly women. Mr Federal Minister, you have now mentioned flexicurity so often: What we all do not want for the sake of women is that it means flexibility for women and security for men.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27348	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[20:13:20]] Member of Parliament Karl Oellinger(Green): Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! This was, of course, an interesting definition of flexicurity, but I have an even more obvious definition of what the Federal Minister has said: Flexibility exists by strengthening the rules of visibility for workers, and there is security in the form of a not-gift but a truly favourable, discounted offer for entrepreneurs who want to know about the unemployed insured. [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: Very funny! Very funny!]] This is not funny, it is actually a redistribution measure, in this case at the expense of an insured community. . We have always been for this, but have also seen the difficulties in doing so, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, when trying to add the self-employed risk, which is completely different, to that of the unself-employed. There is a great danger that the large insurance community of self-employed workers will have to pay for it. Now the SPÖ says: Yeah, well, we're on it. It doesn't matter, let them pay for it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] – Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, what did they get for it? An intensification of the rules on visibility? Is that what the SPÖ can do? – Otherwise, there is nothing! What would be necessary for the flexicurity according to Scandinavian model would be a significant increase in replacement rates. Where is she? - She didn't come. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Once an idea of oillingers who don't cost anything! I'm making a price for an idea that doesn't cost anything: the oillinger price!]] What would be necessary would be a valorization of unemployment benefit or emergency aid. Where is she? - She didn't come. Is that supposed to be a result in which one and the other can find themselves? - Please don't! A final sentence on data protection: Of course, we also know that the AMS must behave neutrally, but nothing and no one, dear Jacky Maier, gives the AMS the right to store data on participation in strikes for a lifetime, and that will be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27410	Mr Maier spoke in favour of an actual correction. I assume that you, honourable Member, are aware of the legal provisions. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Unbounted session extender!]] [[20:15:51]] Deputies Mag. Johann Maier(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker here claimed from the speaker's desk that the AMS is not entitled to store data of a striker's participation for life. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I'm correcting: § 25 does not provide for this at all, but only provides for a storage of data on condition that workers are affected by a strike or by a lockout. – This is a significant difference.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27493	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[20:16:40]] Member Ulrike Königsberger-Ludwig (SPÖ): Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Oellinger, I give you two points: On the one hand, I believe that it is a drops of advertising – I also said in the Committee – that in the future the journey time for part-time workers can be one and a half hours. I'm sorry, too, but that's contained in this conflict of law. Secondly, I think we will be discussing over the next few years an increase or valorization of unemployment benefits and perhaps also changes in emergency aid. Here I go with you, Mr d’accord, Mr Oillinger. But what I would like to emphasize, although I am not the attorney of the AMS employees, is that I find the sentence in your request, in which you speak of the complete incompetence and the arbitrariness of the AMS employees, very adventurous. That is, I say, almost unacceptable, because this means that in your request a whole profession will be evaded. I do not think that fair to the many efforts made by AMS employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Furthermore, I do not think it is fair – I have already said this in committee – that you are talking about the government's desire to harass the affected unemployed people with the legislative proposal, and that you are constantly drawing on the socio-economic enterprises and non-profit employment projects. I really invite you to visit a non-profit or a social-economic business once, but not only for two hours, but perhaps for a month! Then you would see that highly committed employees work in these companies and that there are also social workers working there, who are really doing excellent work with their clients and who also always contribute to achieving high integration rates. [[Abg. Oils: We know that!]] In the socio-economic enterprises, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, and in the non-profit employment projects, there are also real working conditions. There are employment conditions for which the BAGS-KV, which is the collective contract for social professions, is paid; this amount is between €1 068 and €1 220. I think – to do this too – that it is quite reasonable for people who are unemployed to be involved in such labour market policy measures, because there is also work on the problems of the unemployed people. They all know that when people are unemployed longer, they often have problems: The self-esteem is often in the basement, and there are often debt problems and other issues. – That’s why I’m looking for you to really look seriously at a farm. Finally, I would like to write you a sentence in the main book, which is very important for a politician or a politician as well as for everyone else. It says: The negative thinks in difficulties, the positive in possibilities. - Maybe you should think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27552	Mr Oellinger spoke in favour of an actual correction. Please proceed in accordance with the legal provisions. - Please. [[20:19:47]] Member of Parliament Karl Oellinger(Green): Madam President. Mrs Hönigsberger spoke about the fact that in our request we had spoken about the incompetence and the arbitrary nature of the AMS employees. [[Calls:Königsberger]] - That's not right. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:...not even said!]] In the application we did not talk about the incompetence and arbitrariness of the AMS employees, but about the incompetence and arbitraryness of the AMS in relation to the jurisdiction of the administrative court or the protection of the insured. [[Call the ÖVP:Well what now?- Oh, my God!]] – This is something else: We didn't attack the insured in any way. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[20:20]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law in 361 d.b. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Mr Schade, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In addition, Members of Parliament have tabled an additional proposal. Finally, there is a desire for separate vote by the honourable Members. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill, which have not yet been voted on by the supplementary or amending amendments mentioned and by the request for separate vote. We shall vote separately on Rule 1(4), as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting for this part of the bill to be a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(7), (8) and (9) and the deletion of paragraph 10 and the resulting amendment to the designation. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote of these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those Members of the House who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on Rule 1 14, 17 and 20 as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of new points 23a, 23b and 23c. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who advocate a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Members Kickl, ladies and gentlemen have an additional request concerning Article 1(24a)(21)(a). 8 to be inserted. Whoever stands for it, I'm looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have submitted an additional request, which refers to Article 1(24a)(21b) and Article 1(25a)(23(a). 8 refers. I am looking for those members of the House who advocate a sign. – That's the minority. Rejected. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(26). I'm looking for a sign when I'm agreed. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on this part of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are here to vote for it to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall be voting separately on Rule 1(27) as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are for it to be a sign of confirmation. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal which contains the inclusion of new points 27a and 28a in Article 1. Who is for this, I am looking for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall be voting separately on Article 1(29) and Article 3 as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for it to be a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 4(1), Article 25(1) and (4). Whoever speaks for it, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on these parts of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign of confirmation. - That's the majority. Accepted. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment or amendment which refers to the insertion of new paragraphs 5, 10 and 11 as well as the resulting amendments to the terms of paragraph 25 of Article 4(1). Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall vote separately on Articles 5, 6 and 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who advocate a sign. – This is accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who will also vote in favour of this draft law at third reading, to have a sign of approval. – adopted by a majority. The draft law was also adopted at third reading. [[20:26:21]] 12. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (300 d.a._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which amends the company's employee tax law, the Income Tax Act 1988, the ORF Act, the Journalisation Act, the Labour and Social Court Act, the Banking Act, the Financial Market Supervisory Act, the Family Tax Compensation Act, the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984 and the Corporate Tax Act 1988 (359 d.b.) 13. Point Report and request of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the draft Federal Law amending the Chamber of Workers' Act 1992 (360 d.a.) President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: We are therefore going to the items 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mrs Mikesch. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[20:27:09]] Member Adolfe Herta Mikesch (ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! With the new Employment and Self-Employee Prevention Act, we are able to achieve a quantum leap in social security for self-employed people. In this way, we also implement a decisive building block of the flexicurity package, which was adopted in the Council of Ministers on 31 December. ==References====External links== We have already been exemplary in Europe with our previous model of occupational health care, the redundancies new. With 1. In January 2008, around 500,000 free employees, self-employed, freelancers and farmers are now included in this success model. Volunteers and farmers have the option to voluntarily enter the new model. In this way, we are implementing a further focus of the government programme and at the same time eliminating great discrimination on employers vis-à-vis workers. In particular, small businesses and our family businesses, which form the foundation of the economy in Austria, will benefit from the new regulation. In this case, social security is provided by occupational pension schemes from 1st century onwards. In January 2009 it was possible and voluntary unemployment insurance for self-employed persons particularly important. With these measures, we create framework conditions that provide social security for our entrepreneurs and facilitate them to successfully operate and invest in the future, because regardless of the current economic situation, the entrepreneurs, but also the family businesses and individuals, can look to the future with confidence. At the moment we have a very positive mood and high satisfaction due to the continuing good economic situation. A fifth of the companies say they are recruiting additional employees, and small businesses are also thinking about an expansion. There really is an exceptionally good economic situation at the moment, which could result from the excellent framework conditions that have been created in recent years. If we remember that some 90 000 new companies have been established in Austria since 2005, 150 000 additional jobs have been created and more than 100,000 new teaching contracts have been concluded, this shows us that we are on the right track. With the measures of the Flexicurity package, we are able to agree more flexibility, self-responsibilities and benefits on the one hand with more social security on the other. This ensures the economic location of Austria in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27696	Mr Spindelberger came to speak as the next speaker. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please. [[20:30:21]] Member Erwin Spindelberger (SPÖ): Every day, each of us feels that modern working life is characterised, among other things, by the increasing need for flexibility for workers. As a result of the constant job changes involved, the fact that the self-employed, i.e. the workers and employees, are on average not even three more years employed in a farm has occurred. Five years ago, this would have meant that 800,000 people would not have benefited from the claims for settlement. However, this situation took into account the government of that time and passed an employee protection law with which the redundancies-new entered into force. In the course of the evaluation of this law, however, it has also been demonstrated that in today's work world more flexibility is required not only by workers but also by self-employed persons. This means that all the careers of employment do not look as they did in the past, but it is often changed, especially transitions from self-employment to self-employment and vice versa often occur. As a result of the still different social provisions of the different professional groups, there are no longer any justified differences, which are taken into account in this government template, by now, in addition to self-employed persons, free workers are also included in the scope of the work-off and are thus equal to the workers and employees. Since free servants, even though they should be slightly employed or unemployed, will be treated as workers and employees in the future, they should also be treated as workers and employees with respect to workers' chamber membership, which is the logical consequence of this. This approach is also good, especially since, due to their economic dependence, free workers also need a strong representation of interests. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[20:32]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[20:32:46]] Deputies Mag. Birgit Treasure (Green): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to make the positive progress in the employee protection law. We also welcome the inclusion of free servants and self-employed in the employee protection law. It is important that there is sufficient bridge financing in transition periods – in the actual sense of handling – also for free workers and self-employed. – So far, so far – still – good. Only a few days ago, the Wifo presented us with a new study entitled “Long-term trends in income distribution in Austria”. I quote just a few sentences to give you an impression of this study. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with the first topic?]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Watch out, colleague Mitterlehner! Study!]] The study concludes that the shear between low and high incomes is large and has continued to open in recent years. “Over the last decades, not only has there been an increase in the inequality in the distribution of income within the self-employed, but also between income from self-employed employment and those from ownership and enterprise.” Increasingly, the distribution is determined by the high concentration of assets. - Quote. Each one of you here in the hall knows that, that's nothing new: The poor are getting poorer, the middle class is getting poorer, the rich are getting richer. – And how can you deal with this development now? [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What does this have to do with the precautions?]] - Just wait. Possibility of one: They accept this as a calculated accompanying appearance of neoliberal conversion. Mr Mitterlehner! Industrial association, Bartenstein, Mitterlehner – first group. Option two: They still criticise and make no difference at all at the price of government participation. And I look very consciously at the left side. But then there is also the possibility of three, and that is that, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ and ÖVP, what you are doing here in this great coalition: We can also consistently promote and drive material inequality and unfair distribution in our society. That is what you do with the optional inclusion of the professions in this system. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Why?]] I would also like to explain to you why: They make it possible for pharmacists and pharmacists, notaries, lawyers, civil technicians – all these are professional groups whose members are not marked by an extremely immoral working biography, but who have quite a privileged, partly even protected position on the labour market or on the market – to allow these people with constant high incomes to increase their wealth tax-free, and that through a system designed to secure less privileged people! I'm sorry, I don't understand. I don't understand why you're not paying taxes – for the education system, for the health system, for public transport. You know all of this. They refrain from tax revenue to enable wealthy notaries to raise tax-free assets! [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: My God!]] I tell you, please don't be surprised when the next – the x-te! – Poverty report comes – again a report on the uneven distribution of income, which criticizes the situation in our society, because that is the consequence of your policy. They promote that the rich are getting richer and that they take too little intensive action to give the poor people in this country a real chance. They are responsible for this development! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But when we talk about the employee protection law, we cannot ignore what was behind it: the introduction of the handling-new. In introducing this system, service providers' contributions were reduced from 2.5 per cent to 1.35 per cent. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: 1,53!]] - 1,53, yes. The apparent incentive for workers at the time was that they could come into the right of their work – i.e. without long-term disputes with the employer. But unfortunately, this system has been limping right from the beginning, and it is now clear that for each individual at the end of the day there is still less left than before. [[Call the ÖVP:Falsch! Why?]] – I can tell you that I did it in committee. We Greens do not accept this and want a correction. I therefore propose the following amendment which you will not require as much mobility as the last one: [[Quoted print version removed]] So we want higher service providers again. I know this increase is not now the big step towards a just redistribution, but it is a start, and we greens are not tired of taking the first step again and again when it comes to more social justice. I wonder, When will you all finally be there?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27897	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Hofer. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[20:38:53]] Member of the Commission. Norbert Hofer(FPÖ): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! Free workers, if they become unemployed, are treated as normal workers by today's decision. There is also equality with regard to membership of the Chamber of Labour. We will therefore support this decision. I should like to take advantage of the opportunity to report on an event that last week was attended by the disabled speakers of the political groups in Vienna, where people with learning difficulties, mentally disabled people expressed their wishes, including self-representation and representation. It was true that on the one hand the legal anchoring of the workshop councils was required. This was also an election promise before the last National Council election. It was also true, however, that an idea has been judged by a workshop council, namely that people working on the second labour market, in protected workshops, should also be represented by the Chamber of Labour. It is currently true that disabled people often find no jobs in the free economy. However, it is possible to become active on the second labour market in the protected area, in protected workshops. There, however, one gets no salary for work, but a pocket money. There are therefore no labour law provisions, and therefore there is no legal representation. We'd like to change that. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is not such a special measure. There is already a large group of persons represented by the Chamber of Labour without the withdrawal of AK contributions: unemployed, mothers or fathers in Karenz, apprentices, minor employees, presence and civil servants. These are 570 000 workers throughout Austria. My request is also to have people working in protected workshops represented by the Chamber of Labour in future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e27990	First of all, I declare that the amendment tabled by honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, has been properly supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28041	I also announce that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer, Mr Ing. Kickl and other Members have been properly brought in, sufficiently supported and are therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28093	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please. [[20:42:07]] Deputies Sigisbert Dolinschek(BZÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the High Authority House! – Here the inventor of the discharge speaks new. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The inventor of the discharge New!]] Right, Mr Mitterlehner, you have noticed this, because I have been working for twelve years to see that there has been a reform of the discharge at all. And with 1. January 2003 it was that far. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Sigi, thank you!]] That was important, and we have brought it over well, although the economic side at the beginning had very serious concerns. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Well, well, na!]] I would also like to remind you of the fact that, at the last meeting of my group's economic representatives, colleagues were bombarded by fax and e-mail from the Economic and Social Union, not to be accepted. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] But the ÖVP club was so far away that one created this employee care, this settlement, and the social democrats were there too. That was a useful thing, because the treatment in the old form has simply survived. Only 15 percent of the Austrian self-employed have received a job at all once, and it was totally mobility-inhibiting, because once someone has been in a business for several years and has quit himself, he has not received a discharge, and by doing this New belongs to the past. I have to say that I have nothing against the fact that free servants, self-employed and also farmers and forestry workers are now also involved. We could have done that at the time, only the political parties were not so far at that time. In fact, we were always for a three-pillar model in pension insurance, and that was the so-called second pillar, the occupational employee care, and it has proved itself. If we had not been responsible for government at the time, this would not have happened to this day, because the social partners have come up with it, its reason was that Dr. Susanne Riess-Passer, then vice-president, invited the social partners to make proposals as they imagine it. [[OBJECTIVES]] This was not quite easy, of course, because the additional wage costs have been assessed differently. Mr Oellinger! You're going to remember this very carefully: One has said that the additional wage costs for the settlement amount to 7 percent, the others have said, 3 percent, 2 percent, 4 percent, depending on. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: And what did you say?]] For some, it was 0 per cent, especially those who worked in a tourism company or in seasonal businesses, because they practically never needed to pay a deal, because people always interrupted working time and were practically unemployed during that time. This was the difficulty of including these, and it has also been found that the social partners have proposed 1.53 percent of the contribution base. That's just to have a lot too little, but it was important to put it through to have a foot in the door. Today, a few years have passed, and now it is so far that even the self-employed, the free workers, the farmers and the farmers have the opportunity to make an occupational provision. And I really think it's very good that it is. The colleague has previously submitted a request of 2.5 percent. I am fully in favour of this because, in fact, all the members of the Committee – whether by the ÖVP, by the SPÖ, by the Greens or by the FPÖ – felt that the percentage should be increased. This is also easier now, Mr Klubobmann, because everyone is present and because for the entrepreneurs, for the farmers and for the farmers there is also this possibility, because this contribution is of course minimizing in profits. Many have the possibility to build up a second pension in accordance with the capital protection procedure, where they actually have relatively little to pay – in public provision. That is why it must also be possible to increase the percentage. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I think we can then agree whether we make 2.5 percent, 3 percent or 3.5 percent, so that a reasonable amount can come out. At 1.53 percent, it is quite simply the same that employees will actually receive €500 million. Now that everyone is sitting in the same boat, even the self-employed, it should be possible that what has been achieved earlier after 25 years of professional loyalty will now also be achieved after 25 years and not only – as with the 1.53 percent – after 47 years. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[20:47]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek, Mr Haubner and Mr De Clercq has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: Next came Mr Bartenstein's speech. - Please, Minister. [[20:47:24]] Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr Martin Bartenstein Thank you, Madam President, for granting the word. – A remarkable orange-green coalition! [[Abg. May. Honey: What is left of us?]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if so many in a political debate use motherhood or paternity for a project, this is already an indication that this is a very successful project. This is the company's employee care – finishing new – all the time. I see many personalities in the area who made their contributions – party friends, social partners, of course, it was also the then coalition partner. Something good has been done. It would not have been possible if there had not been the consensus of the social partners on the subject, because – Hand to heart! – such a mega project, from the finishing Newly then to make this concept, that was already a effort of strength. It has succeeded, and that 2.4 million employees today – for net 1.6 million are regularly paid contributions – are embedded in this system is good. €1.5 billion is the estimated assets. These 1.53 per cent, Mrs Schatz and Mr Dolinschek, do not come from the political sphere, but that was the consensus of the social partners, at that time, between President Leitel and President Vergestnitsch, who made this proposal ad personam. Now to say, by application we increase this to 2.5 percent, I think that this is something careless. These are, of course, labour costs, which are additional costs which cannot be purchased without further delay. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a good condition, however, to extend this concept of occupational health care now to an operational precautionary concept for everyone. The social partners, the workers' side, did not trust it. It was then the Federal Chancellor, who could still be persuaded by the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer the next morning, to include the peasant side as well. I think it is a good thing that there is also the possibility for our farmers to save on this farm provision. For the self-employed, it was already clear for a long time since the condition there was the reduction of health insurance contributions. It was in itself so clear to the freelancers that it was explicitly provided for in the Coalition Agreement. There are 500 000 people in Austria, who can now be added to this occupational provision and can ultimately build up a second pillar for themselves. This is a success model that will now be additionally accessible to 500,000 people – thank you for that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in the near future: Here, to say that this is an injustice and a redistribution up to the liberals – so if you see for everyone else the tax conditions in such a way that the deposit before taxes and the payout after taxes takes place, then you have to see it for the freelancers of course. But that's not what I'm talking about, but you put into the room, it went in Austria towards more poverty. That's just not right. Please read the poverty reports, look at the EUROSTAT numbers above all, and listen to me very briefly! [[Abg. May. Honey: Unrighteous distribution!]] We are at the bottom of the scale in a Europe-wide comparison with the risk of poverty, and the trend in recent years has been falling. 12 percent of people are poor or vulnerable. This is certainly a totally unacceptable number, but in the European comparison we are quite good. Don't forget, of course, that risk of poverty always means: What's the median income? – The higher the median income, the higher, of course, is the poverty risk threshold. This should not be forgotten in a wealthy and rich country like Austria, where this median is relatively high. So there's no question. It is a better distribution justice in Austria than elsewhere – we can measure ourselves with the Scandinavians – and it is also a relatively lower level of risk of poverty in Austria for European conditions, and of course only in the global context. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28310	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please. [[20:52:16]] Member of the Ridi Steibl (ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Unemployment Insurance Act and the Employment Pension Act now also enable free workers to obtain sickness benefit from the fourth day of incapacity for work. The weekly fee for mothers is no longer paid in the form of a fixed amount, but calculated according to the actual income. For this purpose, € 2 million will be made available from the family compensation fund. This change in the law not only reforms education but also makes it more attractive. Together with the government's draft on the Unemployment Insurance Act, this is a large social package that has been tied here. On 2007, I think, we can look content in this regard. I only call the child care allowance new, which is very likely to have something to do with the employee care law, because now the free staff can also use mother protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In this context, I would like to say something about the Chamber of Labour and SPÖ. The Chamber of Labour should take care of the interests of its members and not constantly make party policy at the call of Mr. Federal Council Kalina in this regard! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is irresponsible for our families to go out again with misinformation about the possibility of child care benefits. The worst thing is that the SPÖ claims – Kalina in a broadcast – that the childcare allowance was decided only on massive pressure from the SPÖ. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The fact is that we could have decided this much faster if not Mrs Bures had blocked it in the Council of Ministers; then there would have been many other measures much faster. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] It is true, therefore, that the SPÖ has delayed the decision. Furthermore, I am not responsible for it, and I was horrified that the “Rotfunk” did not play up and down for a day in this context. Valuable government partners! With regard to family policy, I ask you to have a job for the benefit of the families. If, in this issue of Kalina, you are talking about a sumptuousness of a minister, a minister, you are sure to say, Mr Buchinger, because he is somewhat in several areas, especially in the case of measures to further develop the care topic after the expiry of the amnesty regime. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28406	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[20:55:14]] Mr Franz Riepl(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! As already stated, the amendment to the Employment Pension Act also includes, among other things, the free servants in the scope of processing. I think it is a logical step that the free staff will subsequently become workers' chamber members. I believe that this should be emphasised in particular and clearly that this decision-making process is also intended and implemented. Mr. Federal Minister, we have discussed the subject of 1.53 per cent more often, including in the Committee. I always admire diplomacy in your statements. I wish I had, and I hope you once said: Yes, in fact, we should now consider whether these 1.53 percent should not really be discussed seriously. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] They talked around again and said: Yes, this is a social partners theme, and much more. Your Secretary of State has a little more clearly signaled this in the Committee, but of course it has also remained on your way. So I think we have a job in front of us. We should really talk about this 1.53 percent. Whether it has to be 2.5 or 3 percent, I don't know either, but at least it showed up... [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Would you like to lower it?]] No, no, of course, raise! But it turns out that the expectations that were set at the time clearly do not meet, and that is actually reason enough to think about them. That's what we should do anyway. On colleague Steibl and her criticism of the Chamber of Labour, there is only one sentence: I can't take this seriously, colleague Steibl, what you said was that the Chamber of Labour represents social positions. This would not at all allow the very strong group of Christian trade unionists and the ÖAAB to do so. That is almost impossible – what does “almost” mean?, that is impossible! [[Abg. Steibl: The Chamber of Workers should take care of its members!]] We have a strong political group in the Chambers of Workers, which is why it is impossible to do so as you have said. [[Abg. Steibl: But it was!]] – No, that’s not the case! That is certainly not the case, and I wanted to point it out.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28485	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please. [[20:57:43]] Member of the European Parliament Josef Muchitsch (SPÖ): Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The scheme, that is to say, from 1. January 2008 also self-employed from various economic sectors I believe that a further contribution to the approximation of entitlements and benefits between workers and employers will be made to a treatment-like occupational provision. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is good! As far as the previous item on the agenda is concerned, measures for the approximation of employers and workers have also been adopted. Many discussions, discussions and interventions have taken place. Several arguments and opinions have been examined and edited. The result is available. A thank you to all those who have contributed! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28533	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on each of the Committee's proposals separately. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the occupational health care law, the Income Tax Act, the ORF Act and other laws, 359 d.b. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal. In addition, there is a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the draft law in series and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on by the supplementary proposal and the request for separate vote. [[Unrest in the hall.]] - I'm asking for a little rest! Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. Deputies Mag. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new Z 4a in Article 1 of the draft law. Whoever speaks for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule 1 Z 28 5. Part of the Committee's report. I am looking for those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by the majority. I expressly note the two-thirds majority required by constitution. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Again, I expressly note the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. In turn, I expressly define the two-thirds majority required for constitutional purposes. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dolinschek, Mrs Colleagues, on the increase in monthly contribution to employee and self-employed care. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Workers' Chamber Act, including title and entry into 360 d.b. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is unanimously accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues with regard to the representation of people with special needs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:02:49]] 14. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (283 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Trade Regulations in 1994 (320 d.a.) 15. Point Report and request of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on the draft federal law amending the Consumer Protection Act (321, e.g.) 16. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (79 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Law on Economic Loyalty (322 d.b.) 17. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (288 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Accounting Act (323d.b.) 18. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (287 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Civil Engineering Act 1993 (324 d.b.) President Dr Eva Glavischnig-Piesczek: This brings us to points 14 to 18 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mr Grastaur. 7 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you have the floor. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: 7 minutes of speech do you have?]] [[Abg. Graubur: (on the way to the speaker's desk and towards the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner) Reinhold, you have to stop that!]] [[21:03:55]] Deputies Alois Grastaur (FPÖ): High house! Mr. Minister! Madam President. I would like to carry out the following: It is an adaptation to EU law and, from the point of view of the liberals, a classical domestic discrimination. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Why is that so? – In Austria, the conditions for the profession of the trader are as follows: three years of professional experience, an academic training, the audit of balance sheets. Foreign business loyals can be held in Austria according to § 231 para. 2 – it says: “temporary and occasional”, which in our opinion is a very vague formulation – already after two years of professional experience in freedom of services in Austria, and this also takes place under other professional qualifications. We would also have liked to see an overview of how many people are being used in what period and with what qualification the freedom to provide services. In addition, the legislative text should include an obligation to report cross-border service providers. We believe that the administrative burden for this would not be too high. To the Account Holder Act: This concerns independent and commercial accountants. These must carry out an audit of the balance sheet records in accordance with the law of the previous year. The transitional period of one year seems to us to be very short; this has been the case. And why? – This requires training, training is necessary; the courses offered are far too few, and if there are courses, they are overcrowded. The course times are set in such a way that they are very unfavourable for self-employed, and the courses themselves have a very high price. It seems that this is where money acquisition and shock are in the background. That is why we are allowing us to make the following amendment; I must read it out now: [[Quoted print version removed]] I ask for your consent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28711	The amendment tabled by Mr Graezeit is sufficiently supported, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The next item is the speech by Mr Mitterlehner. 3 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[21:08:39]] Member of Parliament Dr Reinhold Mitterlehner(ÖVP): Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The present industrial regulation novelle essentially reflects the lives of traders in all the diversity. I believe that there are some quality improvements inside that will also be felt by the consumer, such as the introduction of a corresponding quality seal for master businesses, which can then represent their quality in the implementation. What may be most important in the public, and will also have the greatest impact, is the amendment of § 114 of the Commercial Code, which requires the elimination and delivery of alcohol to young people to appropriate controls and information obligations. In this section, it is said that it is prohibited for traders to grant to young people – and so on – if the young people of this age are prohibited from enjoying alcohol in accordance with the provisions of national law on the protection of young people. In this context, I assume that the individual institutions of the respective federal states are of course aware of how the provisions of the national law on youth protection apply and that, accordingly, there will also be a vote in favour. The penalties for commercial vehicles in this context are exorbitant, go up to 3,600 € and beyond. We also have the usual problems of demarcation within the framework of the business regulation. I think some of them we have solved quite well, for example, that now technical offices in international competition can also act as engineering offices. That sounds kind of banal and harmless, but that's the international name, and that's what makes you much better success in the entire business. Similarly, we have also regulated the ancillary activities of insurance agents and agents and have made clarifications here. A large part of the business regulatory innovation is concerned with the corresponding implementations of the money laundering directive. This means that there are also information obligations of insurance intermediaries, asset advisors and others. In total, the palette is relatively extensive. The trade regulation is thus quite an instrument to increase the competitiveness of businesses on the one hand, but also to implement quality requirements from the point of view of consumers on the other. I thank all those involved. I think this is a successful step.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28797	Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. 7 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:11:49]] Deputies Veit Schalle (BZÖ): Madam President. Mr. Dr. Bartenstein, Minister of State! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Act, which amends the trade regulation in 1994, can in principle be said that we will therefore vote against it in particular when it comes to making temporary cross-border services possible, because the implementation of this directive is, in our opinion, too liberal and therefore increases the level of undeclared work. This does not mean that there is fair competition; there are distortions of competition. That is why we are calling for a separate vote on this point. For this reason, we also reject the other novels of the economic loyalty law, the accounting law and, in particular, the civil engineering law. Especially in the field of civil engineering, Austria is considered one of the countries with the most restrictive access rules in the EU. Therefore, opening up the market to cross-border services, especially for local civil technicians, leads to an increased disadvantage. Returning to the new business regulations: It is positive in the sense of consumer protection through property liability insurance for real estate creditors and the clarification of the rules on advertising events relating to the right of withdrawal. It was actually high time that this came and the displeasure was stopped. We also see the quality seal for trusted revision and real estate managers very positively. However, this title alone requires additional costs for the federal states which do not result from mandatory implementation of Community legislation. They make up € 340 000 in Carinthia alone, about which a solution would have to be negotiated or sought for. Finally, on the subject of comat-drinking, we ourselves have tabled a motion for a resolution on 6 June. In June 2007, a package of measures was introduced to combat comatism. [[Abg. Sburny: This is a very important topic for BZÖ!]] There is still no federal law on the protection of young people. [[Abg. Sburny: There must be one for Carinthia!]] VAT on non-alcoholic beverages is still too high. There is no sufficient social awareness about alcohol and too little control in gastronomy establishments, supermarkets and gas stations, nor a uniform procedure for the consumption of alcohol by young people. [[Abg. Steibl: This also applies to Land Captain Haider!]] One point, namely the extension of the ban on the sale of alcohol to young people in supermarkets and gas stations, can be seen positively. It is also positive that there is a general obligation to issue certificates. Hosts and dealers and their employees must control youth certificates, even if there is only the slightest doubt that the minimum age is not reached. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, first and foremost, however, parents and legal guardians must be taken into account in order to inform their children about the negative consequences, effects and dangers of alcohol consumption. [[Abg. Steibl: This also applies to politicians!]] It should be natural for parents to be responsible for their children. Even in kindergartens and schools we should already be clarified, otherwise we will never get to grips with this problem. [[Abg. Steibl: And also in discotheques!]] We can't increase the punishment every time comet drinks become known. I believe that the current level of punishment is perfect. However, it is necessary to control effectively and consistently instead of flexibly increasing the penalties. In conclusion: Despite some positive points, we cannot agree here at third reading, because, as the introduction points out, there is a serious disadvantage to the liberal provision of cross-border services of domestic businesses and the open door to undeclared work. Thank you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[21:16]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: Mr Bauer came next. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:16:27]] Deputies Dkfm. Dr Hannes Bauer (SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! My predecessor's statements have moved between liberal and more control – however that was meant. We have, in any case, tried to secure the professional qualification of cross-border services and to take into account, as far as possible, the wide range of requests made to us by industry and consumers. This can never succeed, because it is simply sometimes too specific wishes and it cannot succeed even in the best legal effort and best legal understanding, which really to the detail in such a way that on the one hand it is legally waterproof and on the other hand all are satisfied. However, I think it was important that we agreed in a good negotiating environment that the question of professional qualification was resolved cross-border in such a way that the system is beyond dispute that consumer protection, product safety and, ultimately, competition are met. I think this is very, very important, that a balanced law has come about. It was certainly also a certain welcome that the Cann provisions would be used more effectively, Minister. I'd assume it once. Under this condition, consent was made that the Kann-Determining is made as often as possible in the interests of the quality of the services provided here in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e28940	The next item is the speech by Mr Zanger. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please. [[21:18:48]] Member Wolfgang Zanger (FPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! In addition to the comet-drinking paragraph, which I will then come to speak about, the trade regulations also deal with a very important point. That's the point of money laundering. There is a very extensive opinion of the ARGE data, which is certainly known to you. We have already discussed this in committee. This begins in such a way that the ARGE predicts how it will proceed: “Critics and concerns will be apologised... with reference to ‘European obligations’.” – This was not necessarily the reason, but: What else do you want to do? The opinion of the ARGE data then continues as follows: “On the other hand, it should be pointed out that the Austrian legislator often acts at ‘free discretion’ when implementing European obligations. Especially where fundamental rights are to be restricted, Austria presents itself as a model student.” This corresponds again very well to our principle criticism of this EU. Now let's go a little bit into the detail. Interventions in private autonomy and freedom of commerce see the ARGE data, and it says – and that is indeed according to the new law – that: Business partners must be monitored, it is necessary to carry out research, it is the money laundering authority to understand. “In the absence of agreement with certain business partners, business relations – in the event of other penalties – must be excluded.” But it's a little thicker: “The practice of requiring private individuals to pay for fines and secretarial obligations on peak services has so far been known from dictatorships rather than from Western democracies.” – This is strong Tobak, I would like to say. In principle, private data are managed here, without further standards. [[Abg. Rädler: What about the comat drinking?]] – We're still coming! That also means no one knows what happens to this data there. There are no sophisticated control mechanisms. The way to the glass man is open. Whenever it is against civil rights and against fundamental rights, the Freedom Party will be a rock in the burning. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: “A Rock in the Branding”! That's it!]] . Yes, yes, my dear colleague Mitterlehner. [[Abg. Sburny: A joke!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is how the roles change!]] One point is still open: For the traders, this means an appropriate effort, not only from the settlement, from the administration, but also from the costs. Federal Minister! In fact, you have not given me an answer to what you would say to a trader who addresses it. That no answer can also be an answer says a lot. I'm really excited about what's really going on with the commercials. It's a little easier to pay when it comes to comasopening. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: 0,99 €!]] – 0,99 € in Austria's south just a short time ago, that's right. Here too, however, it must be noted that it cannot be used alone by using punishments. I've mentioned this before. Stigmatizations are dangerous, can become a boomerang effect. I am very clear here that we are not, of course, against the changes to be made here, but the stone of the wise ones is not yet. It goes, and this is what I am writing to you here again in the main book, about the inability of youth, caused by a now almost decades-long catastrophic family policy, which makes your own children increasingly less and less, stand in front of the shards of your immigration policy, and actually no longer know how it goes on. Apprenticeship problems, mass immigration, which also strengthens the ÖVP business speaker Mitterlehner by talking about the shortage of skilled workers: We have too few skilled workers, let's get them up from the east! – This is actually an affront against our youth. If one does not resort to the causes, then one will not be able to fight the effect alone with punishment, then the fight against comat drinking becomes a cramp. In view of the recent events and because we want not only to take politics into account, but of course also the parents, the young people themselves are required, but also we as politicians: A little word at the end to us politicians, perhaps to be regarded as a shining example: Never drink too much, because the last bottle that falls over you could be yourself! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Wheeler: Oh you!]] [[Call at the SPÖ: Great truck is better!]] [[21:24]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:24:44]] Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler (Green): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is, of course, a “higher” level that is presented to us as a politician. It is also not always possible to understand the line of reasoning, but let us leave it. It's already late and speaking times are getting short now. I am saying that we are no longer going to speak on the item on the agenda 19 and we are going to announce our agreement at this point. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You should do this tomorrow all day!]] – Look, you can't talk to yourself, because hardly comes a reasonable offer, you'll bluff again. I wouldn't have expected that right now. Nevertheless: In my view, the chairman of the Committee has indeed put things to the fore here. In reality, we do not need to start talking about it, because the trade order is such a large field, and we see what is in it. From my point of view, I would like to refer once again to the comments made by my previous speaker. He was quoted in the opinion of the Data Protection Advisory Council. That's a serious thing. We didn't make it easy and we weighed it. That is why it is useful to say something, namely to justify voting behaviour. Most will not have dealt with what I understand. In fact, it is already a major problem that, in the fight against money laundering, of course, we also depend on the assistance of private individuals. It's no different when you've seen through the essence of money laundering, which is not always easy. Some members of the Committee of Inquiry may still remember the drive of local banks and the failure of their supervision. That's not a simple thing. On the other hand, from my point of view, it is not for us either to go to a retreat position and say: We have to implement the EU directive anyway, and that was it and otherwise we are hiding. No, no, no, It is difficult and under the rule one must intervene in private business and also oblige those acting there because it is no different if there is suspicion of money laundering. This is in fact the same with the banks, and there is no question that the banks will be taken into account if there is a suspicion. If a particular business partner makes another particular business offer, of course, he has to consider himself in some way: What does he offer me? Where did he get that? How could that be? – This, of course, only if there is a suspicion and not in general and everywhere. Whether you say “spinning” or not – I know you’ve quoted – that’s another question. But the more important thing is: How else do we get hold of this? – We don’t get it under control if one doesn’t look a little bit at the other, because I can’t have a sheriff behind every business, behind any transfer – or take any other example from business life – before the business even starts. So this can only work in such a way that a certain commitment is imposed. [[Abg. Singer: Internable cable must also be!]] Yeah, there might be better than that. I have not been able to judge that myself until the end. I also trust myself to admit this, because I've been dealing with the matter. The point is, however, that this is once a step that I prefer to take than it would be. This is a difficult balance. This is what we have done, and I am now stopping before the end of my speaking time, so that we do not have to deal with the comet drinkers in different federal states.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29149	It has now come up with a report by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. - Please, Minister. [[21:29:01]] Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin BartensteinWomen's President! High house! The argument put forward by Mr Kogler is relatively seamless in relation to the arguments put forward by Mr Maier in committee. And in fact, it is a matter of interest to consider what measures one takes in the area of money laundering. Standing alone, it sounds pretty terrible that now, if you sell something, you may have to report something, collect information, have your employees and more. The value limit of €15 000 is already from a certain height, but also not astronomically high. It is also good that all of us are not talking about any EU directives that we have, by the way, decided on ourselves. In order to cope better with money laundering than up to now, it is obvious that it is necessary to make arrangements for real estate brokers, even outside the purely banking and financial spheres in the field of trade as a whole, with insurance intermediaries, in order to prevent anyone with black money from operating his small private money. This is a complex, unusual project, but I think that this is necessary in today's time of organized crime and international money laundering – I add: unfortunately –. It is true that this is an intervention in everything possible, but it is no different, word “interest balance. ” Second note: Comet drinking. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, there are laws on the protection of young people, but they are relatively toothless. Moreover, I do not fully understand when, in four federal states, namely in Vienna, Lower Austria, Burgenland and Vorarlberg – I do not say this for the first time and will allow me to repeat it again and again – a 16-year age limit for schnapps and high-percentage. I believe that the law on the protection of young people should put them up to 18 years, as is the case in the other five federal states. Apart from these not quite understandable age limits, these Youth Protection Laws are not sufficient. This is why an attempt is now being made to get closer to the objective through stricter measures in the trade order. Apart from innhouses, we are also trying to introduce bans in trade, to give alcohol to young people, and the obligation to issue certificates is also an important point. The higher penalties, Mr Mitterlehner, are relatively juicy in the extreme case, but they must be. This does not detract parents, families, but especially political people from their educational and exemplary effect, because I do not want to take out national leaders either. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, one last thing: Because it doesn't sound very nice when someone says a bill would contribute to domestic discrimination. Mr Grastaur, the history of economic fidelity looks such that in fact two years of professional experience if EU foreigners are to work with us. But I clarify: two years of professional experience as self-employed. The three years quoted by you only take place in Austria as a necessary practice before independence. That's clearly different. This will, as already stated in the Committee, be limited to a few individual cases, because – with the permission of a person who can be tax advisors in Germany or France – we have to acquire a lot of know-how about our tax system in order to carry out this activity here. Apart from the time-limits over which I have already been allowed to refer to, I believe that there will not be much competition from abroad on our economic trustees. But I'm on it: Freedom to provide services within Europe means that one should and can operate cross-border. Let me conclude by saying that Austria's service exports have about twice as high a global market share as our goods exports. So there we are even more represented than in the exports of goods. I think that more freedom in the field of service will bring more benefits to the Austrians than, if necessary, there once or there the one or the other disadvantage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29231	Mr Lutz Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please. [[21:33:41]] Member of Parliament Lutz Weinzinger(FPÖ): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister, the eleventh commandment is: Don't be fooled! - That's not how it is. I'm a tax advisor in Schärding, so I'm talking to you, like, per domo. I am telling you, ladies and gentlemen from the Bavarian neighbouring country, which are mostly Frank or Saxony, are already pressing in. [[Call the ÖVP:... should you press back!]] As an example: We have here the reports of the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on government templates 279 and 288, and the present draft legislation concerns Directive 2005/36/EC – we have already heard – implement accountants, accounting accountants and economic creditors. It means: ‘This Directive is addressed to the European Parliament and to the Council. It entered into force on 20 October 2005 and was implemented by Article 63 at the latest. to take place on 1 October 2007.’ Apart from the fact that we're obviously a little late on it, don't you notice anything? “Hat to be done” – ius cogens, compelling right! I thought it was all voluntary. For decades – even more, for over a hundred years – we have been developing in Austria the profession of business loyals, the tax advisor with a good training, heavy access regulations and a protection for the small, medium-sized and also for the large economy. Protection, care, advice, secrecy – everything that belongs to it. That's what we've developed perfectly. Thus the small, medium-sized and also the larger – until a few years ago the larger – economy was co-developed with us in Austria. She was taken care of, she was accompanied. The big economy has long been with economic trustees and auditors who operate internationally and mostly came to us over the large pond. We know the successes. If large businesses, large companies, whether from the banking sector or from other industrial areas, get problems, get the biggest problems, get bankrupt, be taken over and the like and the whole ends up at court somewhere, then ask these large companies: Where were the auditors? – Have you never wondered? [[Abg. Sburny: Always!]] But for small, medium-sized enterprises, the well-trained, well-trained and often for decades and generations the companies are accompanying tax advisors and take responsibility when it has to be. It just doesn't have to be there, because it's usually all going well. Ladies and gentlemen, we are breaking this system now. This breaks us through the EU – as we want and decide for ourselves, we always hear it. What else do we decide? – We are implementing a directive! Didn't you notice that? We are implementing a directive which will be in the final impact at least to our smaller and medium-sized economies. I deeply regret that we are going to the agenda without further delay and are actually talking about coming up on this point. Nevertheless, a word on the topic of comasoping. To whom, then, are we now transferring responsibility under these new provisions of commercial law, to whom? – The little host and his staff! Now, at once, we call these people guilty and not the right-wings. We should also pay attention to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29299	Mrs Steibl came to speak. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please. [[21:38:09]] Member of the Ridi Steibl (ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, Mr Weinzinger, parents too should be held responsible. Yes, I think parents should be given positive support in their education tasks. I would also like to address this point now, namely the increase in the volume of alcohol produced by young people. Unfortunately, the abuse of alcohol among young people, even in some cases even in children, is indeed a massive problem. A facet of the problem is also certain that many young people today are no longer experiencing drinking to the limits of consciousness as an extraordinary event. This may have happened to each of us sometime as an accident, but in the meantime, in discotheques and at festivals, the drinking of noise has become a normal case. This is not only about the host, but also about the tent festivals and all these measures. When young people are energetically led to the alcohol by bubbling parties and similar things, one must also ask where there are adult “models ” that participate in such things. But I also want to say that not all young people are allowed to be thrown into a pot. We have excellent young people who make their way, who take good training and much more. This novelle is a good and important contribution to the sometimes relatively toothless laws of youth protection. Let us also take the next necessary steps together, namely towards a uniform law on youth protection – as the countries are responsible – and we support the young people that they have a lot of free space, and not only in discotheques. And we also encourage parents to accept partnering and parenting! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[21:40]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: Next, Mr Marizzi. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:40:24]] Member Peter Marizzi(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The trade regulations and the three related laws and the changes can in principle be described as good. This is a whole package of different directives and amendments, especially the money laundering directive, and also a long-standing demand from us and, of course, as mentioned several times today, the more stringent provisions on alcohol. Our group has given particular importance to the Professional Qualifications Directive. We believe that this directive is necessary and not just fair. It is simply that we have the right instruments in the area of the European Union as a whole. Just a few words for comat drinking. I think there are also positive examples: ==References== There was an action in Wiener Neustadt, together with the daily newspaper “Kurier”, where Mr. Mayor Bernhard Müller analysed 31 establishments that passed the alcohol test. The enterprises and the economy have gone along. I believe that this should not be a dictatorship, but that it should be worked together on this problem. And believe me, Minister of State – we have also talked about this in committee – that this is a particular concern for me. You know that. Although we have only 9 per cent of youth unemployment, this is on the European average. I think we're the second best. Nevertheless, we should do something about apprenticeship training – you answered in the Committee, we have a good social partners proposal and it will be implemented. This proposal from the social partners is good, but we should do something together on apprenticeship training. We should force on the economy, the industry and the industry and really be determined to have more apprentices, more trained apprentices. In any case, we are reducing youth unemployment. – I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29408	Mrs Mikesch is now speaking. Also 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:42:55]] Member Adolfe Herta Mikesch (ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! With the amendment to the trade regulation, we implement EU directives on the one hand, on the other, we implement the government programme's requirements and respond to economic needs with adaptations. I would like to highlight the redesign of the advertising procedure, which will lead to administrative simplification in the future, as well as the introduction of the protected title master company. In the future, numerous advertisements will remove the requirement of the decision-making process for positive implementation. As an entrepreneur, I know how important it is to reduce the administrative burden on businesses and thus relieve entrepreneurs. It is very important to me that we continue this path very consistently. The less effort a businessman has in addition to his core business in administrative tasks, the more he can rely on his economic performance. Concentrate success. Those who relieve businesses, promote growth and create jobs. Among other things, it has also been requested to introduce the protected Master's seal as guidance for consumers for quality assurance. The Master's exam guarantees a well-founded training, the existence of the technical requirement and the observance of the highest quality standards. The consumer must therefore be able to trust that only businesses whose owners or business managers have successfully completed the Master's examination may use the term "Master's Company". This is also intended to support the new criminal provision that puts the unauthorized use of the seal of goodness and the unauthorized use of the words “masters”, “masters” and so on under punishment. Among other things, on the initiative of the Minister of Finance Molterer, the Council of Ministers decided to reduce the administrative costs for businesses by 25 percent or € 1 billion by 2012. I think these are important things to simply secure jobs and training places in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29474	Now comes Mrs Mag. Drunk's word. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[21:45:13]] Deputies Mag. Melitta Trunk(SPÖ): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Minister! Two preliminary remarks: Point one: Mr Veit Sale, § 114 on and your statements, I think you know how I am, 58-year-old men – and be you politicians, no matter in which federal state – are not affected by the protection of young people, but are a self-responsible attitude. Point two: Mr Weinzinger, you have spoken of the so-called poor little hosts who are now being harassed. The fact is that today's measure, which is expressed in the innovation of the trade order, is an initiative of the little innkeepers mentioned by you, who are not black or sheep who have distanced themselves from these so-called black sheep who invite to comet drinking, approved drinks instead of engaging in the protection of young people. Many of them come from the Free Economic Association, and I thank them for this initiative, which reached its peak in the media half a year ago, which worked as an host and gastronomy. A motion for a resolution was tabled by Mr Gisela Wurm, Mr Melitta Trunk, Mr Comrades, but it was not very successful in the Committee on Health. I think this is a very positive example of consensus on this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, including Mr Mitterlehner, thanks to your support. These are rules, such as the obligation to issue certificates, which are not a shock against traders, but are intended to protect young people. - Point one. Secondly, we are talking about serious sanctions, which do not endanger anyone in his existence, but actually stop thinking and reacting, which is a sensible measure. In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. In this context, I would also like to join with the remarks made by the Minister. We politicians and not only athletes have a model effect, and that does not cost any tax money, when we meet politicians of our role and at least reach a consensus that we make a big bow around locals, where young people are seduced into comet drinks and approved drinks. Point two: As of today, on the occasion of this novel, no politician and no politician will be greedy, but no one will pay his alcohol, but in other things he will be generous. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29550	Mr Steindl is next spoken. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:48:19]] Member of the European Parliament Conrad Steindl(ÖVP): Madam President. Thank you, Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! In the current debate, we are dealing with the EU Directive 10/2005, which is being implemented here for economic operators and accountants. Mr Weinzinger, as I believe, we do not need to worry about the Austrian economic owners and accountants; they are trained at the highest level. And I believe that this opening also opens up opportunities on the one hand and on the other side of the Austrian borders to become service providers. Because of their excellent training, our economic owners and balance sheet holders have the best possible opportunities. The objectives of this EU Directive are to contribute to the flexibility of the labour market and the provision of services and to promote enhanced automation in the recognition of professional qualifications. It is also true that, for example, a brancher who does not have the appropriate qualifications has to complete qualifications tests and adaptation courses here in Austria. It is therefore also important to ensure that, if the qualifications are not correct, appropriate training must be provided. The independent balance sheet holder is very, very well received in the economy. This is an important and correct step towards liberalising the service. ==References== In January 2007 more than 1 000 independent account holders took up their work. It is also very pleasing that the proportion of women is about 62.2 percent. I believe that the liberalisation of service professions should be continued. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29608	Mr Mag. Johann Maiergelanges now to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:50:27]] Deputies Mag. Johann Maier(SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The trade regulation contains not only rules for traders, approval rules, rules for the field of activity, but also, as we have already heard, a number of consumer protection provisions. Another step will be taken with the amendment that we are deciding on today. We regulate the unfortunate problem or improve the situation of consumers at advertising events, we are innovation the Consumer Protection Act, namely, in With regard to advertising events, in order to facilitate the withdrawal of consumers. One of the most important rules, however, contains the provision that asset trustees and real estate managers will have to take out an asset liability insurance in the future. Background: in Salzburg, the bankruptcy of two large house managers, where it was possible to prevent the worst in the interplay of social partners, the country of Salzburg and in particular the department of real estate managers. This section of real estate managers in Salzburg has not only set up a voluntary hardness fund, but has also developed its own seal of quality in order to increase confidence for tenants and homeowners. This is exemplary for Austria. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With binding liability insurance, a voluntary booleans fund already established by the section at the federal level, and this voluntary trust review, we can absolutely improve the situation of tenants and homeowners in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29723	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and properly submitted and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29796	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auerzu word. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[21:53:43]] Deputies of Dipl.-Ing. Klaus Hubert Auer(ÖVP) : Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I should like to refer briefly to two amendments to the legislation which have taken place in the context of these many amendments. I would like to thank the Federal Minister very much for the fact that, on the one hand, there has been a mere change of name, which will create more competitive opportunities, namely a change in the name of the technical offices to engineering offices, consulting engineers. That's the international name. This offers more opportunities at international level outside Austria. On the other hand, what gives more competition here must also allow more competition for others. In that case, I mean the changes to the Civil Engineering Act. If that may be too liberal, I think we should simply remember that we should have equal opportunities here. In particular, these two professional associations, the consulting engineers according to the trade regulations and the civil engineers, have a lot in common. These similarities will benefit them much better in the future. I can only remind you that the technical offices have so far had over 5 500 certificates of qualification, and in the case of civil engineers there are about the same number. This means that two groups of professionals are close to the same level of attention. Together they again employ a few twenty thousand employees. And I think there is also good work being done. Finally, I should also like to make a brief reference to comat drinking and just add that it is very important that we create more stringent guidelines here that we all take on board this commitment, from the parents to the politicians. And I can only add that – Mr Schalle has also referred to it for the BZÖ –: I hope, however, that not all BZÖ delegates will have to take care of the topic of comasoping. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29851	Next, Mr Kirchgatterer. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:56:19]] Mr Franz Kirchgatterer (SPÖ): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that this change in trade law now includes the protected quality seal “master company”. This concerns more than 40 sectors. The protected seal of quality “Mastership” ensures very high quality standards in industry, crafts and services. By the way, these are especially small and medium-sized enterprises that train most apprentices. I would like to expressly point this out. The quality label “Mastership” supports quality companies on the domestic market, will be a site advantage, will open up new markets, i.e. increase the reputation of Austrian companies abroad. As a further step, I propose the inclusion of all regulated trade. This could be the second step. I would also like to address the situation of the middle class in connection with the seal of quality. Today, very positive economic data have been announced here from the speaker's desk. However, I would like to point out that in recent years the middle class has been seriously neglected, that the middle class of the losers was the last tax reform and that the forthcoming tax reform – and we will be in favour of it – will be a tax reform for the medium-sized and for the low-income people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29901	Mr Obernosterer has now come to speak. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[21:58:32]] Member Gabriel Obernosterer (ÖVP): Madam President. Minister! On today's innovation of the trade order and on the point of youth protection: I've been host myself for 30 years. The topic of comat drinks spirited through all media. I have to say that it hasn't been transported 30 years ago. It was also a subject at the time that the boys drank something there and there. Nevertheless, the youth is our greatest value for the future, for society and also for the family, and it is our obligation to look to the youth. That is why it is also important for these controls to be tightened up, not only are the hosts tightened up by the obligation to issue certificates – Mr. Weinzinger said, this remains only with the hosts – but it is also mandatory in future to carry out these controls at association festivals, at tent festivals, but also, as has been said, in box gifts, in order to protect our youth. You have to say something, I think, but quite clearly: The law alone will not put it under control, but it is really about the role model for our youth. I do not want to focus on the subject that has been spirited by the media in the last few days, from a disco in Spittal, but on the discussion that has developed from it. In this context, I already ask: What should the youth think of their political role models if, for two days now, press releases have been served by the public, in which only mutual accusations are given? For example, a Mr. Stark of the BZÖ Youth says that the Greens should be silent, because it is not certain whether not all of their “eing’s smoke” or have been consumed without drugs come home at their events. Retirement claims are made, and so on and so on. Such a discussion in the public is exactly what our youth does not need. Law alone will not bring youth to the point of letting these “sins, ” which we in part have committed ourselves. Therefore, let us be a model – I believe we agree that youth needs protection – and let us stand by it and leave us in various discussions when it comes to the greatest good of our country, namely youth, party politics! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e29953	Mr Muchitsch has now been reported on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[22:01:27]] Member of the European Parliament Josef Muchitsch (SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been discussed and discussed in detail about the current commercial regulation. However, I would like to address two areas briefly. First: Civil engineering and engineering offices. – colleague Auer has already mentioned the name change, but changes are also envisaged, which also recognises part-time work. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ has achieved that free service contracts are also recognised as practical times. We know, of course, that in the future we must not shut down changes and innovations, particularly in the context of the trade regulation. The second point raised very briefly: the planned change to the trade regulation in 1994 in § 13 para. 1 point 1a. Here the grounds for exclusion for the exercise of a trade have been extended and strengthened. - A very positive thing. It is usefully new that natural persons are excluded from the exercise of a business if they have been sentenced by a court for fraudulent withdrawal of social security contributions and supplements under the Civilian Vacation and Processing Act and for organized black work. The existing grounds for exclusion remain, of course, and, in addition to and in addition to the newly mentioned grounds of exclusion, are a further contribution and a further success for fair and fair competition for the benefit of employees and employers in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30013	The next item is the report by Mr Hörl. 2 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member. [[Abg. Kainz: (in the direction of the Abg. Hörl) Birthday speech, Franz!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: He's got birthday today!]] [[22:03:28]] Mr Franz Hörl (ÖVP): Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! It's all been said: On the one hand, the trade regulations were changed because they wanted to do something about comat drinking in order to enable the young to develop successfully. On the other hand, some EU directives had to be implemented. From the point of view of the host, I am convinced that there is no problem at all that the dimensions of punishment are increased. Ordinary hosts – and I know only those – have always taken care of our youth and made sure that things related to alcohol come into existence in some way. Of course, we will also have to ensure – and I say this now as mayor; the mayors are really exemplary here – that we get to grips with this problem also at tent festivals. I believe that the countries of course also need to adapt their rules. The quality label “Masterships” has also been mentioned. That's a great thing, of course. I believe that we cannot do enough in this state for skilled workers, we cannot do enough for the teaching, because we have a great lack of skilled workers, and if we could make a contribution with it, that is a great thing. The fact that you are opposed to money laundering is, I believe, of course, and the measures are also in order. All measures taken are important. Mr Bartenstein and Mr Colleague Mitterlehner have succeeded in implementing a necessary change in the trade regulations, allowing the necessary modernisations to represent the ideas that individual sections have introduced as an overall picture. All of this was important – I thank you for that. But even more important is that we celebrate Christmas in three weeks, that we will also go skiing in the Alps in a hundred years – I quote here the “Economic Sheet” of 5th century. November – and that we are facing a great season, we have a great booking situation, that our Federal Minister for Tourism is now constantly under the arms of the seasonal and also the labour force, and that there is nothing in the way of a good season. [[the speaker places a poster with the title “In the Alps we drive in a hundred years of ski” on the speaker’s desk]] As has been said, we now have a great snow situation and a great booking situation – so nothing stands in the way of a successful season. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30099	Mr Hörl, I should like to congratulate you on my birthday; if that is true as I have heard it. We wish you all the best for your birthday! [[General condolences.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[22:05:43]] Member of the Commission. May. Hubert Kuzdas(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr. Hörl, congratulations on your birthday! A great happiness – it's the 4th, not the 5th. December. [[Abg. May. Kogler: The “Holy Barbara ”!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: We have that tomorrow, the 5th!]] - We'll have that tomorrow, exactly. Mrs Steibl criticized the Chamber of Labour. I think there are some popular examples from every area. Mr Steibl is not here now, perhaps for colleague Mitterlehner to take away: What do you think if young entrepreneurs object to the fact that they receive the declaration of accession to the Economic Federation and to the ÖVP with the welcome package from the Chamber of Commerce? – I would suggest: at least send with separate mail. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] – Of course, but you should separate that. We have a number of legislative proposals for decision-making today. The main issue is the EU Qualification Directive on freedom to provide services. Until now, an extensive qualification certificate has been required for services in a foreign country. The new system provides substantial relief. Providers of cross-border services no longer need to provide this difficult qualification certificate. This also affects the balance sheet holder; in about a year, an independent profession within the meaning of the trade. This has developed very, very positive – Mr Steindl has already mentioned it – over 1,500 public orders. This innovation will give this industry a fresh boost and the opportunity to offer qualified services abroad. We are delighted – and we have already heard that – and remarkablely, ladies and gentlemen, that almost 63 percent of women in this profession are women. A great thing and also another reason to agree with this new law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30170	Mrs Sburny is next spoken. 3 minutes desired speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[22:08:13]] Member Michaela Sburny(Green): Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will vote in favour of this new law. However, I would like to make a few comments; first, I would like to refer to § 114 of the Commercial Code. I always find it very interesting how this topic is discussed, especially at a later hour, especially as you can observe in the cafeteria again and again, we ourselves like to take a glass of wine or a glass of beer to us; many of us or several, I don't know what it is like with you. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] You can believe me, I know what I am talking about, even with regard to what Mr Trunk has said, namely that no one should pay a glass of wine. I come from Langenlois, and I can imagine how this would happen in my area if we were to prohibit anyone from paying a glass of wine. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Children and young people, please do not!]] I believe that this point we are deciding on is really an important one, but of course only a very small one. In fact, it is a matter of putting the quality of enjoyment and life at the centre and preventing the pouring of alcohol, as it is common not only for young people, but also for a number of adults, from being supported also by the prices of combat from hosts and by very casual handling in this matter. This should be stopped, especially with regard to young people, and that is what we think is good. Point two: Implementation of the Professional Qualifications Directive. . We also agree because we see that this implementation of the directive creates much more transparency and legal certainty than has been the case so far. There is a notification for the provision of services and also a control right in the host country, which was a major concern for us; that is, not in the country of origin, but in the target country. This is also a very important success in the debate that has taken place in this regard. There are minimum standards for sensitive areas and, in general, the obligation for service providers to provide information about their qualifications. That is to say, it has been created in the sense of a very good balance between free movement and quality standards and, in so far, a good development that we agree with. A note to the Civil Engineering Act. There is here – and we have discussed this in the Committee too – an inequality between several countries in Europe and Austria, in so far as practical times in other countries can already be reckoned during their studies, which is not the case in Austria. We have talked about the need for an amendment in this respect which has not yet been adopted. I assume, however, that in the next few years, we will be reviewing the extent to which there will be a gap, i.e. also inequalities for the Austrian civil technicians, and that we may still be able to fix this. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[22:11]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the trade regulation in 1994 in 320 d.b. There is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Schalle. First of all, I will have to vote on the parts of the draft law affected by the request for separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted on. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 88, as amended by the Committee's report, and I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of it for a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I now come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report, and I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Johann Maier, Johann Rädler, colleagues with regard to Treuhandrevision für Immobilienverwalter – Güttesiegel. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's the majority. This motion for a resolution is therefore adopted. (E 47.) Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Consumer Protection Act, including title and entry into 321 d.b. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimously accepted again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We now come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the economic loyalty law, including title and receipt in 322 d.b. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Accounting Act, in 323 d.b. There is a supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Themessl, colleagues and others. Since there is only one request, I shall first vote on the parts concerned by this request and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Mr Themessl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an additional proposal on the inclusion of new paragraphs 13a and 13b. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for it to be a sign. – This is the minority and therefore not accepted. Mr Themessl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled a motion for an amendment on paragraph 14, and I would like to ask those Members of the House who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution for a resolution. – This is the minority and therefore not accepted. I shall immediately be voting on paragraph 14 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report, and I shall ask for a positive sign upon approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the approval to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law amending the Civil Engineering Act in 1993, including title and receipt in 287 d.b. I am looking for a positive sign to those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:1658]] 19. Point report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (206 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Patent Lawyers Act (325, e.g.) President Mag. Barbara Prammer: We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Ferdinand Maier is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please. [[22:17:23]] Member Dr Ferdinand Maier (ÖVP): Madam President. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad, Madam President, that you are now holding the presidency, because I would like to remind you briefly: On the occasion of various debates during the last legislative period, during which all speakers were Pro-Reders, we discussed at that time whether it would make sense to make the contributions in writing. . Today we have six items on the agenda, on which all 39 speakers are speaking, that they are for them anyway; Members of the government will then also speak. President Khol has at the time looked into the European Parliaments in which to place their speeches in writing, and I would encourage them to take up this initiative again. Should this be regulated in this sense, I would like you to read from me in the Minutes: The draft takes into account recent changes to national law in the field of trade law and the professional rights of lawyers and notaries and serves to adapt and implement Community law. But I would add: If you are already talking about adjustments, there are a few things that should be taken into account in a next novel. For example, it is regulated in the Patent Lawyers Act that the delivery of witnesses in administrative proceedings and in civil courts is given, but not in criminal courts. – That would be a discussion contribution. The second point I would like to draw attention to is also the following: The employed patent lawyers in law firms are currently excluded from profit participation, which does not seem to be very useful in view of the current debate on employee participation. You might want to take this into account with a next novel. In this sense, I would ask that the discussion on the deposit of written contributions to negotiating matters, which are decided unanimously, be resumed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30338	Mr. Dr. Maier, you know that a Committee on the Rules of Procedure has been set up, and of course you are free to submit your proposal there. We'll consult him. The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[22:20:01]] Member of the Commission. Kurt Gartlehner (SPÖ): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! After Mr Maier had already given his opinion on this subject, and in addition, he had made creative contributions to the Parliamentary Assembly. I would also like to make a few suggestions on patents or patent management in Austria. I think we have a lot of patents that are actually dead patents because they are not used and exploited. Therefore, I would suggest that, on the one hand, patent periods of unused patents should be withdrawn from the protection zone of patent protection in order to perhaps make innovations marketable or to market, or to make patents that are bought only to keep them away from the market available earlier than innovations. I believe that the patent systems should be revived in total. This would perhaps be an activity for patent lawyers, as it would be exploding to work and perhaps bring some life into the patent industry in Austria. I think a patent is not a value in itself when a patent was formulated and granted, but a patent has a social benefit when it is implemented and is available for society. In this sense, I am also in favour of the decision of this amendment today and would like to give this suggestion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30401	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: 5 minutes?]] [[Abg. Graubur: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Mr. Stumbling, I'm trying to make it shorter!]] [[General hustle and bustle.]] [[22:21:52]] Deputies Alois Grastaur (FPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! I've been talking to a patent lawyer I'm friends of this morning. He said that this law was very well viewed and found to be good in all the details. That is why we can accept this law with good conscience. I would, however, like to make a different point in this regard. It also concerns patents and concerns the EU's project to give priority to these property rights, including intellectual property rights. This may be a very difficult matter. There have long been patents covering animal and human DNA. For example, the company Monsanto files a patent in 160 states on a natural gene sequence in the breeding pig – apologise for this topic at so later hours. And if one follows now in the way that property is given priority because it is intellectual property, the company Monsanto with the pig patents achieves the goal of getting closer to the world market in the global food dictatorship and being a step closer. That, I think, is a very dangerous matter. I don't know if that's really true. That is why I ask the Minister whether this is the case. If that were the case, we would have to defend ourselves very vehemently against the food dictatorship that comes upon us from the United States. Of course we should be very, very on the hat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30482	Mr Schalle has now spoken. Preferred speaking time: 1 minute. - Please. [[22:24:23]] Deputies Veit Schalle (BZÖ): Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Minister! I want to make this thing short. My previous speakers have already done the advantages, and summa summarum we agree with the novelle. It is only a shame that, especially in the case of professional requirements, the board's position has not been taken into account, in the case of the training of patent lawyers in the vocational college. Here, I think, they left out a chance. That would be an upgrading of the technical college at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30518	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 206 d.b. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:25:53]] 20. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (261 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law establishing a federal law on the definition of quality and safety standards for the extraction, processing, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues for use in humans (Gewebesicherheitsgesetz-GSG) and amending the Medicines Act, the Reproduction Medicine Act, the Health and Nutritional Safety Act and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Health Organizations (343 d.b.) 21. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (284 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Law on Data Security Measures in the Electronic Transport of Health Data and the Establishment of Information Management – Health Telecommunications Act (GTelG) (344 d.b.) President Mag. Barbara Prammer: We now come to the points 20 and 21 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Rauch-Kallat. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please. [[22:26:58]] Member Maria Rauch-Kallat(ÖVP): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I would like to comment briefly on the law on the further development of electronic health services. data is included. You know, we are very proud that we have managed to develop the electronic health card in a relatively short time in the past legislative period and roll it out to 8.2 million Austrians. It is still the most modern health card in the world, and it will be the basis and basis for the electronic health acts. For these electronic health acts, which ultimately will benefit not only patients but also more safety, but also the treating doctors, who will be an important basis for a good diagnosis for medical staff, we will ensure that data security is also ensured. It is our concern to introduce these electronic health acts as soon as possible in Austria. Today's bill is an important step in ensuring data security in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30628	Mrs Oberhauser is next spoken. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please. [[22:28:45]] Member of Parliament Dr Sabine Oberhauser(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me comment briefly on the present tissue safety law. The Tissue Safety Act introduces three Community directives into national law. The tissue safety law primarily serves to ensure the quality of medical use of certain human cells and tissues. In order to protect the health of both the donor and the recipient, high safety standards must be observed in future in the event of extraction, processing, preservation and storage and distribution. One of the main objectives is to prevent the transmission of diseases in the course of tissue donation. In future, the collection of cells may only be carried out by means of collection facilities equipped with the respective state of science and technology, and the cells thus obtained may only be processed, stored and distributed by them in special tissue banks in the future. And these tissue banks must match the state of the art and science as well as the collection equipment. This is an important step in protecting both donors and recipients from health risks.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30674	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please. [[22:30:09]] Deputies Dr Kurt Grünewald (Green): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I know that ELGA offers many opportunities, and if you have the risks, you will not be able to use too much. But now I want to talk about the tissue safety law. We will agree to matter. The law actually does nothing but apply three EU directives – perhaps a little late, but nevertheless – and ends a considerable legal uncertainty or even the lack of legal regulations in this area: Finally, it offers the chance that a number of things will be significant improved in safety and quality in dealing with human organs, cells and tissues: from donation to processing, isolation, preservation and ultimately distribution to the patients. If you read the reviews, you can see that some problem zones are listed, which I also see, but which do not go so far that we cannot agree. On the one hand, the consent of the federal states is something in the vague for me. I'd be interested in what you think about it. Then there is the criticism that much is not in the law, which is to be regulated in regulations. Here I can agree with Dr. Aigner from the Ministry about routes at least that medical progress is so fast that you need to change laws almost annually. Now we see whether the regulations also change every year. I would have liked to say something about this: Modern states in Europe and beyond have ethics commissions, not as a hobby club of any German chancellor, but in the service of Parliament. They also have a Technology Assessment Commission such as the Academy of Sciences in Austria at the service of Parliament. It would actually make the work in the Committee much more exciting if one could use these instruments more in the future. At the end of the day: All parties often say that the Ministries urarate with officials and with money and with their bars. If there is a Federal Security Agency, I am already in favour of the fact that the Ministries are also equipped in such a way that they are also workable and can carry out those tasks that are first formulated in the regulations. I would very much like to see to it that what is now very plausibly described can also be understood in the statements and in the Security Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30741	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[22:33:19]] Member Dr Dagmar Belakovich-Jenewein(FPÖ): Madam President. Minister! High house! We too will agree with this draft law, which has been overdue for a very long time. Unfortunately, God’s safety outside the EU is not always safe in the field of stem cell safety, so that was really a necessity. The stem cells will also become increasingly important. We all know that. It is therefore also important to put in place these legislative measures and to ensure that imports can be carried out simply by means of certain databases, in order to ensure the safety of donors, recipients and also to prevent and exclude abuse. In this context, however, I would like to point out very briefly: Something I missed in the law was databases for umbilical cord blood. I believe that this will continue to happen to us in the future, that this too will be another area that will be important, which is also ethically safe. It is a simple and relatively harmless, riskless recovery that neither endangers the health of mother nor child. I think there's still a lot to do. We are glad that this draft law is now in place. We will agree and hope for more. - Thank you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[22:34]] President Mag. Barbara Prammer: Mrs Haubner's next speech. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[22:34:43]] Ursula Haubner (BZÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We will agree with the two proposals. The tissue safety law is about specific safety standards, about uniform legal bases, and the Health Telecommunications Act is about extending the transitional period by one year, which we of course also agree with, so that detailed planning and results can also be included in the context of the implementation of the ELGA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30819	The next speaker is Mrs Lamassoure. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[22:35:28]] Member Claudia Skull(ÖVP): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The time-limit extension as an opportunity could also be extended. Chances for several reasons: On the one hand, it gives you the opportunity to optimize the technical side of the entire health system. Data protection issues can be worked out in a clean manner, and the regulatory idea expressed in the previous Article 15a agreement on the organisation and financing of the health care system can also be more comprehensive, but the Federal Government – and I quote – undertakes to "design and correlate the introduction of the electronic health instruments with the full involvement of all concerned". Of course, patients in the primary sense are considered to be affected by their data and findings, but they are also the service providers, although subordinate, to be seen as the affected. When it comes to expanding the information technology infrastructure, including the networking of all service providers – and this includes, in addition to the doctors, the professional members of the up-to-date medical and technical services – and the cost provider, more time is needed to plan better. Moving out is not always the final conclusion of wisdom, but in this case I am happy in the sense of improving our health system, improving efficiency and the good integration of all essential parts of our health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30858	The next speaker is Mrs Schasching. 3 minutes' time limit. - Please. [[22:37:09]] Mr Beate Schasching(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! On today's decision on the Tissue safety, in turn, implements three important EU directives at Austrian level. That's good. After all, this happens in a dynamic medical field of the extraction and processing of human cells and tissues, which so far knew little or insufficient regulations. The increasing number of implants – I only refer to the many hip implants, knee implants and so on – made it necessary in this number and in the medical indication for their use regulations for quality assurance. They will now be adopted. These rules are intended to protect the health of the donors as well as the health of the recipients. However, I also think that there will now be clear regulations and standards for the preservation, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues. These may be carried out exclusively by tissue banks certified for this purpose in the future. The necessary authorisation shall be granted to the Federal Office for Safety in the field of Health. Ladies and gentlemen, we can therefore once again extend the high quality standards that are generally respected in Austrian health care to the benefit of our fellow human beings and of all the Austrians concerned to the area of tissue safety.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30907	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[22:38:47]] Member Petra Bayr(SPÖ): Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to refer to the liability issue in the tissue safety law, where you, as Minister, have a regulatory authority to deal specifically with liability issues. I would ask you to take this authorisation very seriously in the sense of the patients, namely, remembering that human substances are not free from the risk of transmission of disease. According to the current state of science, this is simply not to be excluded. The regulation, I think, should be most likely to be designed in the sense of a debt-independent success liability according to the model of the Product Liability Act. Assuming liability questions: It is very important to me that we also try to close the liability gaps that exist in the Genetic Engineering Act – which is also in your execution area – as soon as possible and as close as possible. I hereby announce an initiative by the Socialist Group and hope that it will be supported as widely as this law, because I think that we will be able to meet the Austrians and their widespread rejection of genetic engineering on many issues. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e30953	Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please. [[22:40:17]] Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth Dr. Andrea KdolskyWomen President! High house! The use of human cells and tissues for therapeutic purposes is one of the most dynamic areas of medical developments and could in future lead to the treatment of a variety of diseases for which there are currently no therapies. Here, the present draft creates clear rules for the permissible use and uniform standards in order to allow for the exchange of these materials between the various institutions for the benefit of the patient. In the end, such a dynamic area must be given very precise monitoring and a guaranteed control to prevent the risk to patients as far as possible and the replacement of the cells and tissues collected is transparent and, above all, comprehensible. Therefore, the proposed law also imposes a precise obligation to report adverse reactions to the recipients of human cells and webs are created in order to be able to detect misdevelopments and potential hazards as early as possible. On the second proposal, which is under discussion here, to the Health Telecommunications Act, I can report that the Health Telecommunications Act in force lasts a period of time until 31. December 2007 provides within which data security provisions should be made concrete by means of a regulation. This Regulation on the Health Telecommunications Act must partly be based on legislation in the field of eGovernment. These legislations have been or have just been amended, so the Regulation on the Health Telecommunications Act cannot be drawn up at the present time, and this is an appropriate legislating time limit. Furthermore, planning measures for the introduction of ELGA are progressing rapidly and are expected to be completed in accordance with the decision of the Federal Health Commission by spring 2008. Therefore, the date should be extended by one year until the legal effect of the Regulation on the Health Telecommunications Act.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31004	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. First of all, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which lays down a federal law on the definition of quality and safety standards for the extraction, processing, storage and distribution of human cells and tissues for human use, and amends the pharmaceutical law, the reproductive medicine law, the health and nutrition safety law and the Federal Law on Hospitals and Spas, together with the title and entry into 261 d.b. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act on data security measures in the field of e-commerce with health data and the establishment of information management – health telematics law, including title and entry into 284 d.B. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this draft law a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who also give their approval to this draft law at third reading. – That is unanimously accepted again. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[22:44:37]] 22. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (291 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Animal Protection Act (342 d.b.) President Mag. Barbara Prammer: We're now on the 22nd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please. [[22:45:06]] Deputies Mag. Brigid Weinzinger (Green): Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Do you look forward to seeing nice little dog cubs sitting in zoo stores next year? – Remember You are still aware that this House has prohibited this by the Federal Animal Protection Act that the Federal Government has also argued in proceedings before the Constitutional Court of Justice, why this is clearly not animal health, therefore illegal and prohibited? By the way, the Republic has won the procedure loosely. And now there's the big coalition, all this doesn't apply anymore, and you go here and say, Come with the puppies! They're supposed to be kept in zoo acts again! That's such a great environment, because a puppie learns what he needs in life, learns to know everything you need, and does not develop behavioral disorders under guarantee! So seriously do you take your own laws, and this may serve as an example of what my first accusation to you is: You are now in the process of evicting the Federal Animal Protection Act, that law that then considered to be an achievement. I could document this on a number of examples. I focus on maybe only two things where you can say: They're doing all they can to reduce animal welfare. Let us take the example of the tortures. You have now added a new paragraph to the law, which clearly reduces itself only to those species of animals, which are thus located in the pet sector and which essentially makes you get rid of all animal breeds and thus the agricultural sector unscathed – and the whole with a transitional period until 2018! This is one of the more generous regulations for animal welfare and agriculture. Or – and in this next example the “sensitivity” of the legislation becomes particularly clear –: There are statutory minimum standards for the position of different species, which are regulated by regulations. And now, please, write into this law reform: But the Animal Protection Council – you remember that body that was laid down in spring to the candidates of the Ministry of Health and therefore the ÖVP – has at any time the freedom to tolerate the breach or breach of these standards by 10 percent. I ask you: What do we make legal standards for when you then say to a self-appointed body that it decides whether the law is complied with or not? – If there are any real problems in any area, then we call things by name and we change the regulation or the law! But there must be no blank-out powers to bodies appointed by you to resolve legal provisions! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I could mention a whole series of further deteriorations. I only mention keywords like: Wasn't there even something with the songbirds? – Long-term dispute by the chairmen of the alleged customs representatives; regulated animal protection in the ministry withdraws. Was there not even something with clear regulations on chipping and databaseing? Was there not even a clear order that stable systems should only be certified as being animal-friendly on the market? – Everything is not finished, everything is not done. And now, instead, you come with half things as a innovation. When certifying a stable, you say: Okay, the authority should not do it anymore; as we can, we do not know either; now we are setting up a specialist department! – The department will have the advantage that it will again be able to be occupied by the ministry and deprived of control. Or: Rabbit holding. They're going here and saying, Rabbits, but only those kept for meat production, may no longer be kept in cages in future, starting in 2012. And when you look closely: A transitional period shall apply to all newer installations by 2020! – Have nice She did this: The fur collection and the breed, your clients, are anyway excluded, as the rabbits may remain in the cage. Copier bans in dogs, the holding of cupped dogs we even had in the assessment template. You did that again – there was probably also some clientele from you not satisfied with it. That means that what we have here is an erodement of animal welfare, not as usual only on the operation of the ÖVP, but this time under massive participation or on operation of the SPÖ! The clear scapegoat of the SPÖ in terms of animal protection has thus been proved. The government representatives and the minister will probably tell us again how great all this is and how much we are not pioneers – so: Fairy fairy tale. You can tell them a fairy tale next year when you are standing in front of the puppies with the children for Christmas, saying: It was once a country that had a suitable animal welfare law, but then came the great coalition!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31194	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. I wish you every time: 3 minutes. - Please. [[22:50:40]] Mr Franz Eßl (ÖVP): Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! In advance, I can say that we do indeed have an animal welfare law that has essentially proved itself. However, there are some points to change where adjustments are necessary. And I would like to thank you, Mrs.Federal Minister Andrea Kdolsky, for taking the initiative to enable us to change this law. Right at the beginning, the question to my previous speaker: Do you really want, Mrs Weinzinger, to force small farmers, who cannot afford an expensive conversion, to block? There is nothing else to talk about when we talk about tolerance limits. It is just that – if I may give you this example – a cow is not an old box that you put somewhere, but a living being that also changes its weight. And if a farmer has been standing in a series of 20 cows weighing 600 to 690 kilograms, then 120 centimetres of stand are required. And if a cow becomes heavier than 700 kilograms, if a cow or two cows weigh 705 or 710 kilograms, it suddenly needs 125 centimetres of standing width. Is it really useful for you to do a stable reconstruction now? - No! [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger:... make a reasonable decree?]] I say that if otherwise everything is in order in the checklist and the animal welfare law is observed in the other points, we should not do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You want animal protection from the desk, you want animal protection with ruler, pencil and centimetres staff. – We, the ÖVP, want practical animal protection, we want living animal welfare. And we can, I believe, handle this law accordingly. There are essential points that change. You have referred to a point of discipline. These are precisely defined in this law, and this creates clarity as to which breeding is prohibited by law. – A ban on the sale of animals in public places with the exception of approved events is laid down. This prevents dog puppies from coming from abroad in the trunk and being sold here. – The labelling of dogs by means of microchips is regulated accordingly. – It is the prohibition of cagekeeping of rabbits for meat production from 1st century onwards. January 2012, and only those who have invested in confidence in the new law from 2005 onwards have a longer transitional period. I can see that the welfare of animals is at the heart of all the measures that have now been taken. However, the framework conditions must also be feasible for humans, and these tolerance limits that I mentioned earlier can avoid hardships, so that affected farms are not forced to take expensive conversion measures if the welfare of animals – and that is essential! – is not affected and all other requirements of the modern Austrian animal welfare law are also fulfilled. This, I believe, is also a guarantee that Austria can continue to be a leader in animal welfare in Europe in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31245	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 5 minutes welcome. - Please. [[22:54:18]] Deputies of Dipl.-Ing. Karlheinz Klement, MAS(FPÖ) : Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The Animal Protection Act is always a spat between animal welfare on the one hand and the interests of agriculture, small animal farming, professional animal breeding, zoos, animal parks on the other. You will never be able to satisfy everyone. In total, however, I believe this animal welfare law is a good one and goes so far that many interests can be balanced. I just want to give you an example where it's been hacking. I am thinking of the ban on laying hens in large cages. This has led to the fact that we in Austria today have an undersupply with eggs. That means we have to import 40 percent of the eggs from the East. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: For this we export freeland eggs!]] Which eggs are these? – That’s certainly not what you’re doing. Eggs of happy chickens, these are certainly also eggs of hens that are kept in cages. That means, here a little bit of a cat bites in the tail, and it becomes a bit difficult to put it all under one hat. Of course, we could also discuss the waves and the canaries and the question of whether this is kind of fair how they are kept. You can also discuss whether the Orangutans in the Tierpark Schönbrunn are well kept. Whether what happens there corresponds to the kind of justice is another question. To sum up, it's a good design, and it's, I think, also good that we've put something in there together. But there are also criticism points – these are given, and one has to address them –: § 10 for example, regarding the transport of animals. We must experience that, although a great regulatory will in Austria has led to the burden of Austrian animal farmers and Austrian farmers being burdened with very strict conditions and difficulties. It's the first time I've ever seen it. For all animal transports over 65 kilometres in January 2008, a certificate of qualification and an authorisation as an animal transport operator shall be carried. This is difficult, it is a disadvantage for farmers and certainly not a great help. – The fact is, however, that the large transports across Austria and the international transports are not affected. As slaughter animals are carnated from Poland to Spain, they are split up somewhere, come back to Central Europe. Whether all the rules are complied with is another question. There is no one who cares about the suffering of the animals. – Mrs Weinzinger, be a little less excited, stick to the facts! That's right. An important point, which has been completely excluded from all discussions, has been put to the fore here. If you look at § 32 concerning the slaughter or killing of animals, you can read in it literally: The killing of an animal may be ‘only in such a way that any unjust addition of pain, suffering, damage or severe fear is avoided’. ‘The slaughter... without anaesthetic before the withdrawal of blood shall be prohibited.’ But if we find exceptions such as exceptions to religious communities – “(ritual slaughter)” – then it is no longer the case that animals suffer unnecessary pain and that damage and severe fear must be avoided. It is precisely because we have to note that there are catastrophic conditions, and this is unfortunately God's agenda in Austria too. If we read from other points that in these shafts a veterinarian must be there, that only persons who also have knowledge of it may be beautiful and nice here on the paper, but the fact is that in Austria there is a very different approach and that not always veterinarians are there and that not always according to the rules of art is done. I brought you a few pictures, ladies and gentlemen, and that would be an example for you where you can get excited, Mrs Weinzinger. It would be interesting for you to look at that too! [[The speaker keeps a photo up to date.]] These are shafts that happen here in Austria. And do you know how that happens? – This happens by actually entering the animal for a few minutes, until then the blood begins to spring sometime, until then the animal is bleeding out somewhere. And to the stunning that is spoken of in this law, it often does not come because a firearm is loaded with too little ammunition, with too weak ammunition, and the animals have to experience incredible torments until they finally suffer. And these are the results of these massacres, of those shafts that you certainly know as well. [[The speaker holds two more photos and then places one of them in front of him on the speaker's desk.]] You never talked about it! – It was certainly interesting to hear you talk about rabbit farming, about what happens to rabbits. That may be all right: It wasn't good! – However, this takes place because of the listings from the large sales chains anyway. Only: This is not the case if we do not take action against it! [[The speaker refers to the photo placed on the speaker's desk]] The point is: That's animal suffering too, and you don't act on it, dear friends of the Greens! Why not? There you are very quiet! There was no single word in the Committee to hear about it, and not today either. This is the point where you really have to act against where you have to say: This cannot be the task of an animal welfare law to allow it to look beyond it! – There’s so much more to talk about freedom of religion: This is a profoundly disdainful attitude. These are archaic methods that have nothing to do with European values. This is incompatible with European values, ladies and gentlemen. For and from the FPÖ, it is unacceptable to allow these barbaric methods of “pure slaughter” under the cover of free religious practice. There must be no special rights here. Animal welfare must apply to all animals in Austria. There must be no two-class animal protection. That is why we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Animal welfare must not end in the face of cowardice to address things openly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It must be possible to protect animals in all areas, including religious communities in Austria, who believe that they do not have to comply with such laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31362	The amendment which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is also properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31460	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. - Please. [[23:01:33]] Member Dietmar Keck(SPÖ): Madam President. Minister! Today is a good day for animal welfare, and to make it really a very good day, I would like to make the following request: [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Christmas fairy tales!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] It was in the original request ‘cattle plants’. And there are still several small formal measures necessary to make this law really a good law. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Weinzinger has spoken here and has criticized the complete novel to the Animal Protection Act, which we have presented, and she has said that the representatives of the government parties will now hold a “narrative hour” here. “A fairy tale hour” would mean, we say untruths, swam as it is in the mouth of the people, and say anything. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Col. Weinzinger, I have e-mails and broadcasts here from various animal protection organisations, and I quote VGT, association against animal factories, so a really very large animal welfare organization, which today says: In this Animal Protection Act, VGT sees a worldwide exemplary progress. I quote VGT-Obmann DDr. Martin Balluch: This law is undisputed a major progress in animal welfare. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Faul: Bravo!]] Fairy, what are we telling, ladies and gentlemen? - I don't think so! Then: If this animal welfare organisation says so, then there must also be something about this novel to the Animal Protection Act. Second very large animal welfare organisation: Four paws. . We sent them this amendment, of course, because we wanted to know from the animal welfare organisations whether this amendment was also in line with the wishes of the animal welfare organisations. In the mail of Four Pfoten it is said: Dear Mr. Keck! Thank you very much for sending the documents. I've been talking to my colleague Stroh so far: We are extremely satisfied with the amendment. – Four Pfoten, one of the largest animal welfare organisations in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if the two largest animal welfare organisations in Austria say that the animal welfare law is in place and that they are extremely satisfied with it, Mrs. Weinzinger, then I do not know what problems you have with this animal welfare law. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Maybe you should read on!]] But now to those tortures you criticized, colleague Weinzinger. What, then, do we have in the Federal Animal Protection Act as regards tortures, the one with 1. In 2005 it entered into force, had it entered into force? We had a section inside that prohibited torture. That's it! It was not a definition of tortures inside. That is, because of this paragraph tortures have been able to take place. We have commissioned the Animal Protection Council to draw up training features so that we can change them accordingly in the law. Nothing came. Now we have put ourselves together with experts and have created, on the basis of the proposals of Mrs. Stur, who is an undisputed expert, these breeding characteristics for all animals, not only for pets. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: For dogs!]] It's not inside: Qualifying characteristics in pets, but inside it is: Animal training characteristics. We have created these and give breeders who breed animals who have breeding characteristics, the possibility to reverse by 2018 the by breeding measures. I stay by an example, ladies and gentlemen: We know from the Dalmatian dog breed that these animals are 90 percent deaf – through breeding measures that have been set. Do we want there to be no more this dog breed that has very good genetic systems? I say no, ladies and gentlemen. Breeders should reverse this by means of breeding measures that are controlled. Finally, I can only say: With this novel to the Federal Animal Protection Act, which we decide today, we have succeeded in a big throw. The animal welfare organisations are also represented.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31597	The amendment that has just been tabled by Mr Keck is sufficiently supported. He was explained in his core points and is therefore involved in the negotiations. Due to its scope, it becomes according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to Members. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31742	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; 5 minutes of remaining speaking time of the political group. - Please. [[23:06:28]] Ursula Haubner (BZÖ): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The adjustments that have become necessary since 2005 are reflected in this draft law. There are some positive things in this, and I have greatly appreciated the fact that the Committee, but also now before the plenary session, has held a very intense and committed discussion across the parties, and I do not want to highlight here the positive features of this draft law, such as a ban on the sale of roads and the public auction, the ban on the exhibition of coppered dogs. We also see clearly positive improvements in the definition of tortures. We also see positive that cages for rabbits for meat production from 1st century onwards. ==References====External links== Of course, it can be seen that in installations and installations between the 1st and the 1st. January 2005 and 31. A transitional period was set until 2019 and no explicit regulation or improvement was made for breeding rabbits. One can also welcome the registration of dogs and, above all, the cross-border database. But what I and my group see negative is still that the ban on the position and exhibition of dogs and cats in zoo-trades, as decided by all the parliamentary parties in 2004 and that is now possible under certain conditions. And here, I think, especially with regard to the sale of puppies or young animals in a very sensitive phase of life, I really wonder to what extent these provisions are in the sense of animal welfare. For us, it is also uncertain that we have a new department for animal welfare and animal welfare. We don't know how big the effort is, how busy it is, what bureaucracy is going on here. We will therefore not agree to this revision.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31794	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[23:09:04]] Member of Parliament Karl Donabauer (ÖVP): Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I think there's no need for any further evidence. The past government has done excellent, good, best work in many areas. The Federal Animal Protection Act, which we have implemented in Austria, has not yet been implemented by any other country. the quality of the work carried out. Nevertheless, I think some adaptation measures are necessary. The law as a whole is okay, as the smearings and the Christmas g’s shawl printing of the woman Mag are also useful. Weinzinger nothing. I believe that we should address the issues that are the subject of the consultation today. There were concerns about the validity of the Animal Protection Act and the attitude of animals used to support hunting or fishing in the course of the revision of the Federal Animal Protection Act. I am very glad, Mrs Bundesminister, that you have started a review and asked the Constitutional Service of the Federal Chancellor's Office for an opinion here. It has clearly stated that the hunting concerns are unfounded, since there is no change in the legal situation in relation to the pursuit of the hunt. The 10-percent tolerance determination is all right. Above all, I would like to highlight the specialist department for the examination of husbandry and installation systems for all animal cavities. I think that's a big step forward. Everything else has already been mentioned and is part of the law that you have certainly considered. We will, of course, agree to this revision.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31861	The next speaker is Mr Ehmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[23:10:50]] Member of Parliament Michael Ehmann(SPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! As Mr Keck has already said, there are not insignificant animal welfare organisations in Austria, large organisations, which are very satisfied with the novelle to be decided on today. After very long and intensive negotiations it was possible to achieve that rabbits for meat production from 1st century onwards. No longer to be kept in cages in January 2012. Under the Federal Animal Protection Act, which entered into force in 2005, the rabbits were simply forgotten. We have solved this shortage today and are therefore again leading Europe, I believe, even worldwide. With all the other measures still included in this law, we can say that animal welfare in the Gusenbauer government is also a factor that is taken seriously. With all the expertise and expertise that our animal protection spokesman, Mr Keck, introduced during the negotiations, we were able to significantly improve the situation of animals for the future. Ladies and gentlemen! For us as a SPÖ, animal protection does not end with the novelle on the Federal Animal Protection Act, but animal welfare is a permanent concern for us, which is why we will be more strongly adopting another important topic of animal welfare-moving people, namely the ban on the sale, trade and import of stop-mast products. The stopper of geese is animal torture. For this reason, the implementation of the Stopfmast in Austria is rightly prohibited. Trade has also been in the process of listing products from the stop-mast for some time. Regrettably, duck and goose meat, which lands on the Tellers of Austrian consumers, comes from foreign stoppers. Behind the production of duck and goose stop markers are both a brutal torture and an incredible form of animal disease. Rei. Therefore, duck and goose-stoppers products from abroad, in order to avoid any criminality, are sold by some also in transit. It would therefore be necessary to review all legal possibilities to impose a ban on imports, consumption and sale of goose-stoppers and products from the stopper. For us, animal protection does not end at the border with Austria. In the European area, it is also necessary to practice cross-border animal welfare through appropriate measures. This also applies partly to the particularly cruel animal transports. We will also be more devoted to this issue in the future. With our animal protection spokesman Dietmar Keckmache I don't worry about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31936	Mr Rasinger is next speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[23:13:38]] Member Dr. Erwin Rasinger(ÖVP): Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! It has actually been said about this novel. It's an excellent law. We are at the forefront of animal welfare in Europe. I would like to take one point: the poor puppies from the east, which have been shown and sold in obscene places. That's forbidden now, and I think that's good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e31969	From the government bank, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister. [[23:14:17]] Federal Minister for Health, Family and Youth Dr. Andrea KdolskyDear Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen to the National Council! This Committee report has made further adjustments to improve animal welfare. The so-called illegal dog trade represented a major problem, which was also strongly mentioned in the media. There are already relevant veterinary legislation, but it is intended to make adjustments to the Animal Protection Act in order to ensure a better performance of the same or to improve the control of trade in animals. By demonstrating placardial examples in the Animal Protection Act, in the case of any clinical symptoms to be expected from a torture, the regulatory authorisation will be replaced. This exemplary list – and that is, I think, very clearly defined – should not represent any prohibitions on defined external appearances, but should minimize the foreseeable risk of disease for the breeding individual animals and exclude them in the future. This is supported by the current scientific state of veterinary medicine and the consideration of possible diagnostic procedures in relevant breeding regulations. The ban on the trade and auctioning of animals in the public sector as well as on the Internet provided for in § 8a is intended to prevent the uncontrollable trade in dogs, for example in the trunk. A general ban on the sale and sale of animals in public places is intended to, in conjunction with the new rules on the sale of dogs and cats in the zoo trade, which are guided by animal trade in controlled, legally regulated railways. The expiry of cage holding in rabbits for meat production was with 1. ==References== After showing some shortcomings in the design of rabbit farming by animal welfare organisations in the spring of this year, it is necessary to develop new forms of rabbit farming. Finally, it has succeeded in establishing a viable basis for the establishment of a test site for steel equipment and positioning systems. With the proposed formulation of the establishment of a specialist office by my ministry, a greater legal certainty will be created for animal owners in the future in the purchase of stables and rearing systems. In this respect, I would like to ask you to agree to this committee report and to the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32028	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 342 d.a. For this purpose, MEPs have received Dipl.-Ing. Mr Klement, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request. MEPs also have Eßl, Keck, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Klement, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. I shall first vote on the supplementary request mentioned. I shall then vote on the draft law as it stands in the Committee's report, taking account of the proposed amendment. Deputies Dipl.-Ing. Klement, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an additional request to insert new paragraphs 15a, 15b and 15c and to amend the number requested. If you are in favour of this amendment, I would like a sign to be drawn. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law, the title and the receipt of the Committee's report, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mr Eßl, Mr Keck, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement, ladies and gentlemen. Who is for that, I ask him for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[23:18:45]] 23. Point Report by the Health Committee on the Government Template (292 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act, which provides for the animal disease law, for the import of medicinal products into the Community. Sets out 2002 to amend the veterinary medicinal product control law and the prescription law (Veterinary Change Act 2007) (346 d.b.) President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We're now going to the 23rd grade. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. First speaker is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen. [[23:19:04]] Member Maria Rauch-Kallat(ÖVP): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In recent years, Europe has been plagued by the poultry plague. At present, poultry fever is spreading again in Poland and the United Kingdom. In England it was only in August that the foot-and-mouth disease spread again. Throughout Central and Northern Europe, bluetongue disease in ruminants is currently being plagued. The draft law on the adoption of the decision introduces clear rules on the use of vaccines in the case of animal diseases regulated by law and the handling of animal diseases. This is an essential contribution to biosafety and to preventing the introduction of disease by laboratory accidents. The import of immunological veterinary medicinal products shall be subject to the import legislation in accordance with the system and the simplification of procedures shall also take account of the objective of reducing the administrative costs for companies. In recent years, a lot of time and energy has been invested in the development of a comprehensive animal database. With the proposed amendments to animal health law, it was proposed for the first time. The real operation of the so-called veterinary information system, starting in January 2008, lays a significant foundation stone. The collection of animal movements and the electronic comparison of animal health data make it possible to detect animal diseases directly during their development. This makes it possible for the Austrian veterinary authorities to act quickly. Today's decision-making on the data protection base of the veterinary information system will provide the veterinary authorities with an important tool to maintain the excellent Austrian animal health status. We therefore agree to this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32172	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Johann Maier. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[23:21:12]] Deputies Mag. Johann Maier(SPÖ): Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! The government template, which is now in place, is intended to amend several laws: the Animal Disease Act, the Drugs Import Act, the Veterinary Medicines Control Act and the Recipeary Requirements Act, all together in the Veterinary Rights Change Act 2007. High house! With this government template, we are taking a new path in the fight against animal diseases. It is also intended to create an electronic veterinary register It will be the The aim is to ensure, on the one hand, the necessary administrative controls and, on the other hand, to act quickly and effectively in the case of disease. So far, we have not had such a register in Austria. Therefore, in the Austrian Data Protection Council, we have dealt with these materials in great detail twice. We're going a new way, but, as I mean, a necessary way, and it's a first step from our point of view. With an amendment we want to create an electronic veterinary register. We see this as the first step. In the Data Protection Council, the recommendation was also made to create a common food and veterinary register law to which Mr Eßl will address in detail. We believe that all the data in this area should be summarized, thereby also contributing to the administrative reform of the Federal Government and the Länder. I now propose an amendment by Mr Eßl, Mr Mag. Mayer, colleagues on the Government template 292, d.b. ................................................................................................ This application provides that the Veterinary Rights Change Act is amended in the field of the Animal Disease Act. This will create an electronic veterinary register, as recommended by the Data Protection Council. Registration and reporting obligations for animal owners and holdings are to be regulated. There is an investment in which it can be seen which reporting obligations are to be made. And there are special rules for the identification of animals. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you to agree to this proposal for a law as amended by the amendment, especially as we will, for the first time in Austria, establish a data protection system for the preparation and transmission of data in the field of veterinary medicinal products. A brief comment on the amendment of the veterinary medicinal product control law: It was important to me that this law points out that the provisions of the Antidoping Federal Law, provided that they are horse-keepers, apply to animal owners who use the veterinary medicinal products control law. For all the reasons set out above, I can ask you to agree. I would like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Health for their very constructive cooperation at Mag. Herzog and Dr. Damoser. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And I say it quite openly: I would also like such cooperation from other organizational units and other Federal Ministries.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32257	Mr Magistrate. Maier's amendment is sufficiently supported, it has been explained in its core points; because of its size, I have it distributed in the house. He's in the middle of the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[23:25:37]] Deputies of Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber(Green) : Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky! Ladies and gentlemen! In all the shorts required: We voted negatively in the Committee on the present Amendment to the Veterinary Law, but the reason for this was that we still wanted to wait, which will include the proposed amendment. I can now assure you: From our point of view, consideration of the integration of different databases in a collected veterinary data system for all farm animals – cattle, pigs, sheep, goats – is a useful and appropriate strategy in an electronic form, because, what is also important to us, in addition to farms, butchers and animal body recycling plants are to be included in the register. I think it is a very essential point to be able to decide quickly in the light of the risk approach here in the event of risk of disease. For this reason, we will give our consent to this Veterinary Amendment Act. I can assure you: We also consider this intention of bringing together business and veterinary law within the meaning of an overall food and veterinary data register, a food veterinary register, to be useful. The motion for a resolution in question is to be tabled by Mr Eßl. We will also give this our consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32674	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[23:27:14]] Member of the Commission. Erwin Kaipel(SPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Veterinary Amendment Act amends several laws, such as the use of vaccines in the case of animal diseases governed by legislation, the handling of animal diseases, the import of immunological veterinary medicinal products and the extension of the list of animal diseases to be notified. So far, the import of immunological veterinary medicinal products has been regulated in the Animal Disease Act, which appears to be systemic and partly makes the law more accessible to standard recipients. Therefore, this import will in future be subject to the import of medicinal products law. Among other things, the amendment to the import legislation also provides that immunological veterinary medicinal products authorised in the EEA and thus comply with European standards are subject to prior notification only. Other amendments concern the veterinary medicinal product control law and the prescription law. It is also positive that the problem of doping will now also be taken into account at the veterinary level. The inclusion of all compulsory animal diseases in the law and the repeal of numerous individual regulations undoubtedly serve the purpose of legal certainty and legal clarity. There will currently be no additional burden on local authorities by this novel, with the exception of the federal government in the event of outbreak of highly pathological poultry fever. It will be easier for the Federation to save, on the one hand, through the exceptions to the prescription requirement for certain safe veterinary medicinal products and, on the other hand, by the withdrawal of the authorisation of vaccines not authorised in Austria, but not for those which are not intended for the defence of animal diseases and animal diseases not subject to veterinary legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, these necessary and important changes that lead to the promised re-regulation of the animal disease sector are changes that we would like to support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32744	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Eßl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 1 minute. Please, my colleague. [[23:29:56]] Mr Franz Eßl (ÖVP): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I put myself in the debate on the Veterinary Amendment Act with the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32857	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Eßl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e32928	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. Then I can ask all Members to take the seats, because we are going to vote. First of all, we are voting on the draft law in 292 d.a. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you for your support. Johann Maier, colleagues, tabled an additional amendment or amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt as amended by the Government template, taking into account the supplementary or amendment tabled by Mr Franz Eßl, Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That too is unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Franz Eßl, Mr Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues on the submission of a federal law establishing a common food and veterinary register. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 48.) [[23:33:13]] 24. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-48, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, 2007/4 Series; Volume 1 – WIEDERVORLAGE (274 d.a.) 25. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-8 d.b.) of the Court of Auditors, series Federal Republic of 2006/12 (275 d.a.) President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We now come to points 24 and 25 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. I welcome the President of the Court of Auditors. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Herbe. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member. [[23:33:53]] Member Dr Günther Herb(SPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! I would like to thank you very much, very much, for the work done by the Court of Auditors last year – we have today the last parliamentary debate on Court of Auditors reports – for you, Mr President, and for the ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors for the many plans, for research, for reporting and for the very, very, very happy cooperation with Parliament. That's how it continues! The Austrian Court of Auditors is also a real example internationally. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now all the other political groups will be very grateful to the Court of Auditors, as it is usual, but I think we should pay attention to two things. On the one hand: I do not think that the Court of Auditors' reports should be debated in principle as a midnight deposit. [[Demonstrative applause at the FPÖ.]] I appeal to those in charge of all clubs that we find a different arrangement. It may be that once the control points are negotiated late at night, but it cannot always be. I would really appeal for this to be settled in agreement. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Further: If we thank the Court of Auditors and have respect for his work and acknowledge it, it is also important, I believe, that we take the Court of Auditors' reform proposals seriously. The President does not make this easy, it is all well thought out, and I very much hope that we will come to a consensus there. I know there are all kinds of fears, but I think that we will ultimately succeed in achieving some progress. One last thing: The Court of Auditors now has to settle, which is a rather good maneuver ahead. The building is renovated in a economical, economic and appropriate way. Seedeln is always a bit problematic, but I am deeply convinced that the Court of Auditors and the ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors will deal with this. Good luck! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33120	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[23:36:23]] Member Hermann Gahr (ÖVP): Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Klepsch has already praised the Court of Auditors here today. We can also say from our side that cooperation with the Court of Auditors works. For the first half of the year, we have not been able to produce Court of Auditors reports on the basis of the Committee of Inquiry, and we must now endeavour to deal with the Court of Auditors' present reports. I can mention here that it was possible for me and Mr Kogler to attend an international Court of Auditors meeting in Mexico recently, and I could see that the Austrian Court of Auditors has a very high profile in international comparison. We host the Permanent Secretary-General under the President, and Austria has a pioneering role there. It was actually very motivating for us to participate in the congress that Austria has international significance and orientation. Thank you very much. And I also congratulate the great contributions from your side, Mr President, at this meeting. The Court of Auditors' reports here today are collective reports, for example the report “Completion of tasks of the Chief and Control Officers”. The Court of Auditors has, as often in the field of health care, also clearly identified the shortcomings in the system. The structures in the field of head medical services are too inefficient and expensive. There are currently 167 departments. The Court of Auditors recommends that localisations be carried out. In the future, there will also be the same legal framework. The e-card is to be reinforced in control. And many other things are more of their doing. There is much to do in the systems, and the Court of Auditors is the guarantee that it will show weaknesses and shortcomings there and will cause us to make improvements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33172	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remainder of your group's speaking time is 9 minutes. Please, honourable Member. [[23:38:41]] Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler(Green): Mr President. I can certainly join the praise of the previous speaker. The Court of Auditors of the Austrian Republic, through the Secretariat-General, is probably aware of the fact that the Court of Auditors of the Austrian Republic is This international association is a member of the European Union. That wouldn't be so exciting yet, you'll have something like that soon, but we've actually been able to convince ourselves that there's a profound work being done, which eventually also pays off, in the best sense of the word. It is, of course, totally impossible to address the fullness of the points contained in these reports, which are now in place. My previous speaker, Gahr, has already mentioned that we have produced a certain setback through the committee of inquiry. That's right. In addition, at the beginning of the year, however, we first discussed a relatively complicated procedure at the level of the political groups and then also in the presidential term, that some of the reports which could not be dealt with during the last legislative period are presented here again. Of course, it's rather strange if you're going to have to discuss around here at midnight for a few minutes. But I can give a hint to colleagues and colleagues here, and that is basically my only message: If you look at what is included in these reports, I am now particularly addressing Members who are not sitting in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, because the reports themselves have a very high quality and are one-a-advisor for certain technical background consultations. I also know from the President that he is increasingly increasing this segment in reporting, also dealing with certain consultations and not only raising the index finger to the audited bodies, in particular the ministries. I can only say that is increasingly successful. In fact, it is now the case that we can recommend the reading to all Members of Parliament if they simply pick up their subjects with a specific search programme. – That would be what can be done in the near future to the vast reporting system. If I am only in III-48 d.a. and in III-8 d.b. I would like to say that what is going to happen now is ‘Humanitarian aid and reconstruction aid after the flood disaster in Southeast Asia’: Perhaps the President – I would invite him – will comment on this, because, in the context of the international meeting mentioned above, it can be seen that there are completely new ways here – something like that never existed at all – again under the leadership of the Austrian Court of Auditors. Another topic: Gross national income components with the focus on government consumption expenditure. There too, there is work on a subject which rather goes away from classical control, but which makes very useful contributions, including with regard to this debate. These are actually reasonable indicators to carry out certain efficiency controls; if you want to do so, an evaluation of certain things. This was also an important issue at the international conference mentioned above. I don't read all the points anymore, convince yourself in your Croquis! Just one last point: The Austrian representations in Belgrade, Budapest and Buenos Aires were also in this III-48 d.B. the product concerned has been incorporated into the product concerned. I've already been moved by a comment: At the moment, everything doesn't work very freely, even here in the house. I have been told that due to the proceedings in the Court of Auditors, because of the Court of Auditors' report, which on the one hand had certain reasons why it was in the first place carrying out an investigation, a series of questions of the liberals caused a rumour. I'll tell you one thing: If an opposition group, if there are many requests, asks very simple questions about all that we know about in the messages, it is not quite clear that there is pressure being exerted behind the scenes, that perhaps one should withdraw from it again, or that as a bad example, one should also limit or circumscribe minority rights. It can't be! [[Congratulation with Greens and FPÖ.]] I therefore mention this at this point – perhaps the Group of the Party of European Socialists is voting in favour of it itself – because it can also be proved here that the Court of Auditors is doing something – and if it is only the Chamber of Rumor. In the meantime, this is really necessary – with all peaceability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33278	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[23:43:59]] Deputies Alois Grastaur (FPÖ): High house! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Haven't you been exhausted yet?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: We still have enough speaking time!]] – It'll take me a few seconds, dear Reinhold Mitterlehner. That's my speaking time. First of all, I wanted to join with what Mr Herba said. Thank you very much for the best work that the Court of Auditors has given us. Secondly, although it is already very late, I would like to make a special point from the Court of Auditors' report III-8 d.b. take out: This is the Austrian National Bank and pension provision in the Austrian National Bank. Very briefly: ==References====External links== In July 1997, the Austrian National Bank asked the Austrian National Bank to adopt the ASVG pension right and adapt its own pension right. There has been a reaction, a new pension right has been made. However, this has been based on the already existing pension law in the National Bank; therefore, no reference has been made to approximation with the ASVG pension law. As a result, the pension provisions must reach the maximum level of over €2 billion in 2015 and these provisions must also be fed annually by the Austrian National Bank. Pension expenses in the National Bank itself amount to approximately 100 million € annually. The average pension of the ASVG-pensionists is known to be €35 000 per year. And you hear: For the pensioners of the Austrian National Bank, it is €70 000 a year, i.e. double! And if you look closely at the details, you can expect that in the National Bank 80 percent of the last monthly schedule relationship is paid, the retirement age is already 60 years, 40 years are sufficient to obtain the pension, and this pension is paid fifteen times a year. I'm not surprised that this results in the double pension level. There is no point in talking about economy and, above all, of justice at all! The summit point is that there is a company that was founded to finance these pension privileges in the Oesterreichische Nationalbank, the IG Immobilien Invest GmbH. This company is being given a very bad witness by the Court of Auditors. In my opinion, it is perverted that there is a company to support and finance these privileges. I've never heard anything like that before. We definitely reject this kind of pension scheme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33333	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. The rest of your group's speaking time is 2 minutes. - Please. [[23:47:34]] Member Josef Bucher (BZÖ): Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We also thank the President of the Court of Auditors, especially his staff for the valuable control reports, but also for the reform proposals that come out of his house again and again, which open our eyes to the abuses in our country, where there is also a need for correction there and there, as for example to our horror also at the central bank which we have always considered to be an exemplary institution. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP]] In this regard, we had to learn that a number of reforms have never been implemented there, such as pension provisions. One can still retire there at 55 years of age and 65 percent of his last relationship. There are 2 billion € in provisions, these are due to one on and for themselves bad return and provision. So all the abuses that tell us that there is still a very high need for correction. I hope that the SPÖ will also take a look at the central bank in the future. We know, Mr. Novotny will be new boss there, he will clean up right and make sure that there is no more abuses. That's what I wish for the bank. When it's that far, we'll support him.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33386	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[23:48:55]] Member Rosemarie Schönpass(SPÖ): Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. State Secretary! I will deal with one point in concrete terms. On this report III-48 d.B. This is a repatriation. One of the five sub-sectors includes the report on the waste management concept in Upper Austria. The Court of Auditors reviewed the conduct of the country of Upper Austria in this context. The main issue was the collection of the determinations made in the Land Waste Management Plan, particularly with regard to the quality of waste stored from 2004 onwards and its suitability to meet the national and national waste management objectives. In summary, the Court recommended three points: First: Cost comparisons of common collection systems are to be collected in order to show the benefits of a transfer of tasks to the district waste associations. Secondly, The establishment of Holsystems for the collection of biogenic waste is intended to be limited to areas with a closed settlement structure. Thirdly, The number of building waste masses is to be increased. Ladies and gentlemen! With the so-called Upper Austrian trash solution, a year-on-year discussion on the treatment of home waste was held. and blockage waste ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33465	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[23:50:48]] Member of the Edeltraud Lentsch (ÖVP): Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a Burgenlander, I would like to turn to the topic of foaming on the Raab, something that actually went through all the media and was really not very appetizing. However, this has led to a very good view of the environmental situation in the three-country corner of Hungary-Burgenland-Stiermark. That alone was very important and right, because this region really deserved our attention. The Court of Auditors report shows that the environmental situation in this region is largely in order and the visible problem, i.e. the foam on the Raab, is only a single case thanks to God. Measures have already been launched; this pollution will soon no longer exist. The responsible company, whose names I do not want to mention here, has promised to improve wastewater treatment, and wants to invest €900 000 for this. The country of Styria will also shoot more than one million €. So the problem with foam on the Raab is expected to be done by 2008 at the latest. Now you could ask why it took so long. This was certainly also because a state border lies between cause and effect. And we must honestly admit that we are not accustomed to Hungary's demand for environmental standards, although Hungarian towns continue to introduce their waste water into the Raab. This was clearly established by the present investigation. In principle, however, it is very encouraging that the environmental idea has now also come into Hungary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33511	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[23:53:01]] Deputies Mag. Dr Manfred Haimbuchner (FPÖ): Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Moser! It is already very significant that the Court of Auditors' reports will be dealt with at a later hour when journalists are no longer present. This is an unsituation that should be brought to an end as quickly as possible, because it cannot be said that a very important body of the legislative system, namely the Court of Auditors, is being praised by everyone here on every occasion, because we are getting great reports and the officials of the Court of Auditors are making a lot of effort, doing a lot of work, then working very much, but here these issues – as now exactly – are being dealt with five minutes before 12! That can't be the rule, and we hope that this will be different in the future. Mr Kogler mentioned earlier, in connection with the conditions in the representative authorities in Belgrade, Budapest and Buenos Aires, that on such issues the foreign minister never appears here. The foreign minister did not appear in the Court of Auditors; the foreign minister did not appear in the Committee on Foreign Affairs. If it gets unpleasant, Mrs. Plassnik will not come. But when it comes to baptizing a pandabare baby, Mrs. Plassnik is already in place! Now I ask what is more important: the Austrian Parliament or the Pandabare Baby in Schönbrunn, my ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I already know: Whenever the calls in the ÖVP get louder, we're right! I feel confirmed once again. Thank you very much, Mr Hornek! I can tell you why the Foreign Minister Plassnik does not come up with such discussions: because then the 08/15 sets are no longer sufficient, in the way, how great it is not foreign policy, how great it is not everything in the EU, how great it is not even on the international parquet! This is where we have to deal with the Members of Parliament, the directly elected Members, and the opposition. There you have to listen to things like this in Austrian representative authorities in Belgrade, Buenos Aires or Budapest! These are three cases so far. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner, don't get upset! We have made 147 requests to all other Austrian representatives abroad. We will see how quickly these questions will be answered. And there won't be the 08/15 sentences either. We will place great importance on precise answers. That this is then taken for a reason to say: Well, this flood of questions, the right to interact is misused! – One must always be very careful when such statements come from the government parties, respectable of the EIA, for what must not be, of course, cannot be. But as you know, ladies and gentlemen: The right to interact with Parliamentary questions is a very essential right in democracy. And if, at once, the majority shouts that this is actually being misused by the minority, then one should become very considerate of what such statements should mean. What do you want? You mean that? Are you afraid that something is coming up, ladies and gentlemen, especially from the ÖVP, that you will look at the conditions outside of Austria more closely? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] This is interesting, Mr Neugebauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. One should look at the report on the Austrian representation authorities. I know you don't have time, but I still have 24 minutes of speech if I want. So we can do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Bravo! That's good!]] I can also read to you the requests we have made. Is that so difficult to treat? What is the overall burden on the representative authorities referred to in the question, broken down by year, since 2000? Is that a difficult question? - I don't think so. It is relatively easy to answer. How high is the staffing burden for the representative authorities referred to in the question, broken down by year, since 2000? How much is the effort for the representative authorities referred to in the question, broken down by year, since 2000? How many staff were there among the representative authorities referred to in the subject, broken down by years, since 2000? And so on. – I think these are not particularly difficult questions. This could be answered relatively simply, relatively quickly, at least in two months. Or are you not under control of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that you cannot answer such simple questions so easily? Well, we'll see! [[Abg. Strache: They have a Secretary of State for such answers!]] But back to the representative authorities in Belgrade, Budapest and Buenos Aires. For example: “The new residence of the Head of Mission in Budapest was only used moderately in proportion to its size. After the acquisition of the property by a total of 1.472 million. EUR fell at 1,534 million. EUR disproportionately high recovery costs.’ This cost us €3 million in respect of over 40 million schilling in Hungary. That's where I wonder, diplomacy must be worth something. There's no need for populism, but: 40 million schillings, I would like to see if this was so useful. The fact that the staff is then used a little irregularly is another criticism point. For example – I quote again literally –: “At the Austrian Embassy in Belgrade, the increasing work attack could only be handled by high overtime performance. At the Austrian Embassy in Budapest, organisational measures were still in place, although the labour force attack was falling sharply.” Now we always hear from the ÖVP that one is the state-bearing party, the party in which effective, efficient, sustainable management is managed. But in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which you've been running for decades, you can't do that! So I have to say quite openly and honestly: I am eager to reply to the questions concerning the 147 representative authorities. That's what we're going to do. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Getting So Easy They do not simply ignore the right to question or minority rights in Parliament. By the way, we're used to it by your Minister of the Interior Platter. He's making two-liners when he answers. He believes that it is enough – as in the Eurofighter Committee – when he says that it is all transparent, comprehensible, sustainable, economical, efficient, effective. [[Abg. Strache: And to this day he has not presented the contract!]] That won't be enough. We will look at this very carefully, and we will also, together with the Greens, take a very close look at these matters in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. And let's wait until the Foreign Minister comes to Plassnik, if perhaps she's not at some pandabare baby baptism or anything else! [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: What do you have against Pandabars?]] So often these Pandabären babies do not appear in Schönbrunn anyway – unfortunately God, but this is also a problem for the Foreign Minister Plassnik, because then she has to look for other excuses again. The last time in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, it was said that it was important because Mrs Foreign Minister was at the Middle East Conference. She may have called Mrs Condoleezza Rice and said that it was so annoying at the moment in the Austrian Parliament that she must have answered such unpleasant questions and asked if it would not be possible for her to go there for lunch. So I have to say that you already have to take parliamentarianism seriously, which is just like that once, even if there is an unpleasant Member there and deals with these things. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I know the calls to the ÖVP – thank you very much, I feel very honored. Once again I'm right, I obviously hit the nail on my head again. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] I am glad that I also contribute to encouragement and arousation, because normally you all sleep already from midnight, and in this case it is only two minutes after midnight. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: At this time everyone will be awakened!]] I still have speaking time. We still have time to talk. We can also look at other things, for example in human resources. Let's take a look at that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] The requests from staff members for housing grants were partly incorrect. The billing of salaries for public work and contact care was inadequate. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being run so well? – But I am already a little disappointed by the ÖVP. Or have I even been confirmed? I can only say that we will also consider the measures taken by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to address these shortcomings. That would also be an interesting point, because it is very good and important that we have such a report, but of course we must continue to deal with these things. We also need to look at how to face this miscarriage. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Yes!]] The Austrian people, the Austrian taxpayer, also have a right to learn what happens to the money. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Yes!]] – Mr Mitterlehner, you don’t need to call out so grandiose from the fifth row, because you yourself come from the economy and should have an interest in clarifying these things! [[Abg. Strache: This is also quite easy to deal with the money of taxpayers, Mr Mitterlehner! The constitutional rank is important to this!]] They are always those who complain about how some money is used. Operation They are there once lobbyism for Austrian taxpayers. [[Abg. Strache: The constitutional rank is important to him in order to secure the fines!]] Work lobbyism for the tradesmen, for the industry, like the tax money – € 3 million! – is used! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP.]] The joke of all history in Budapest is – listen to me, Mr Mitterlehner! – that the property was still dedicated as a garden. So I can only say, my much-honored Ladies and gentlemen, even after midnight it can be quite interesting in Parliament, and we will continue to do so in the future. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] You can rely on that! And we'll start asking you to get dizzy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33765	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[0:03:31]] Mr Norbert Sieber (ÖVP): Mr President. Ladies Secretary of State! Mr President. Mr Haimbuchner, if I listen to you, as you are really bragging at 26 minutes' speaking time, then perhaps it would be a point, Mr Cap, to talk about: that the small parties will be equipped with speaking time and we will be fed off by the large groups with two-minute speeches! Perhaps, in this context, we should think about minority rights, whether we can make something better. It really can't be. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Do you think we have nothing to say?]] [[Abg. Strache: Don't take seriously!]] Ladies and gentlemen, my speech actually refers to carrying out the tasks of the health insurance companies' chief and supervisory services. We have had a very lively discussion in the Committee, which up until then has gone through that this chief and supervisory duty has been fundamentally questioned. The President of the Court of Auditors has found clear words by saying that the chief medical service is a useful instrument of health insurance to reduce costs. Mr. Kandlhofer, the head of the main association, also meant, in a natural way, that the principal authorisation, advice, control and assessment activities were indispensable for health insurance. Nevertheless, the Court of Auditors has proposed a number of improvements which I now do not want to read to everyone because of my short speaking time. However, I am convinced that these proposals have already been implemented or have been implemented. I am convinced that this will happen, and I also believe that the Court of Auditors will be working there in any subsequent examination. In addition, it will be up to us Members to observe these improvements actively.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33834	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague. [[0:05:38]] Member Erwin Hornek(ÖVP): Highly esteemed State Secretary! Mr President! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Court of Auditors has carried out a review of our Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, as well as of the Steiermärkische and Burgenlander Land government in relation to ecological situations in the border region, in particular with regard to Raab. In principle, it has to be noted that at the time there has been considerable chemical and organic loads due to the industrial use of this flow water, which has led to a completely understandable annoyance of our highly appreciated Hungarian neighbours. Unfortunately, waste water from leather factories has brought considerable organic cargo, cumulated with the fact that over 60 tons of salt have come from a geothermal energy from the Styria to the water, resulting in significant foam formations. The fact that the solution to this problem was a heart concern to our Hungarian neighbours has been clear and clear when Hungarian Members – colleagues – visited us here in this House and pointed out that we may quickly come to a solution to this problem. The Hungarian Minister for the Environment and our Minister for the Environment Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllhen set up a task force. The two heads of the office have done excellent work. The result is that there are stricter environmental requirements, increased controls, further wastewater treatment financed from federal environmental funding funds and a rapid solution to the salt problem. Ladies and gentlemen! In the course of this incident one can only apologize to our Hungarian neighbours, but it is a sign of this, that a positive result can be achieved if all work together. I hope that for the next few centuries we will have a common understanding with our neighbours as we have been for centuries.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33904	Mrs Hellererer's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[0:08:08]] Member Anna Höller(ÖVP): Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Women's Secretary of State! I too would like to use my short speaking time of two minutes to comment on the chief medical service. It was suggested by the Federal Minister Maria Rauch-Kallat, who was then responsible for 2005 at the time of the introduction of the new regulation of the chief physician's obligation to carry out an audit and the 13 statutory health insurance companies were examined. Service matters were provided with recommendations, but the patient-oriented service was also examined by the Court of Auditors. There were also recommendations. The importance of the chief medical service is undisputed. I can, because I came from Lower Austria and at the time was also able to experience in the flood situation, how the chief physician's obligation for drugs was lifted, for a total of two weeks, to report that this had very special effects. At the time, it was calculated by the Lower Austrian Regional Health Fund that a total of €13 million would have been expected if it had been added to a year. If one still connects with what causes the chief medical service in the year – that is €43 million – then this amount of €13 million is very spectacular. Of course, in the area of these prescriptions, which account for only 5 per cent, a quarter of the costs, it should be noted that since the introduction of the e-card, the recipe is running and not the patient and that this is also based on a federal authorisation system, which is also equipped with a refund code. There is therefore also a uniform authorisation system. In this sense it can be said that this new regulation of the chief physician's obligation is a merit of Maria Rauch-Kallatist – who at the time bore responsibility as the Federal Minister – and from today's point of view is also a success story for the Austrian health system.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e33971	The next speaker is Mr Kößl. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[0:10:53]] Member of the Günter Kößl (ÖVP): Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies, ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State! The Court of Auditors report, which I am dealing with, also falls within the area of Austrian representative bodies in Belgrade, Budapest and Buenos Aires. It has already been mentioned that there are shortcomings, and it is also true that these shortcomings are identified and, of course, are also broken down – no question at all. The following must also be said, of course, and this is also true here: although 22 procedures have been initiated for various irregularities in the issuing of visas, only one of them has actually led to a condemnation. If we consider that some 400 000 visa applications are being dealt with, we must of course say that it is not all right for individual black sheep to cause irregularities, but it is generally done very well by these representative bodies. I also ask to make it clear that not everything can be thrown into a pot. You have to pick out the individual things and show them accordingly, but you can't say in general, we'll see what comes out if we control 140 representative bodies. [[Abg. Mr Haimbuchner: Mr Colleague, I have just quoted from the Court of Auditors' report! I just quoted!]] It's clear: Mistakes belong to evidence, but basically it is that very good work is done.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34030	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, spoke from the Government Bank. Please, Mr President. [[0:12:50]] President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Josef MoserHohe's House! Since I have already received the floor and not only in the next debate, I shall be gathering both debates so as to take account of the advanced time. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But please allow me to say very briefly also in view of the fact that today there are four reports with 36 audit results on the agenda and that we have carried out a trilateral examination with the European Court of Auditors in the course of its focus audits, cross-sectional audits, follow-up tests and also accompanying audits, and – this audit has also been addressed – a trilateral examination that we have carried out with Hungary and Slovenia. They also see the focus that the Court of Auditors sets in its audits on innovation and structural reforms, and on giving environmental protection a meaning to assessing gender equality, lighting control systems, and also the EU financial management of lighting or consideration. One point raised by Mr Kogler was the so-called tsunami test. I mention them because this initiative has taken place in Austria. The aim was to draw up guidelines for the economical, economic and appropriate handling of humanitarian aid measures, in particular to create transparency in the resolution of donors, NGOs and recipients, in view of the fact that the Austrian population is given a lot of support for those in need. Benchmarks have been developed to ensure that, now, an international working group is set up. This was done at a conference in Mexico, where INTOSAI will jointly develop the accounting authorities with the World Bank and with the United Nations directives in order to meet this objective in terms of transparency and proper, effective allocation of resources. We have also carried out an examination of the environmental situation in the triangular area, which has led, among other things, to the fact that the special problem in the Raab – also mentioned in the debate – has now been able to provide an agreed provisional solution. On the basis of a request from the then competent Federal Minister, we have also carried out an examination of the head and control services, where, as such, the task organisation and the service law have also been examined and where it has been shown that it is right that the control and head doctors are an appropriate tool to reduce costs, that the benefits are difficult to quantify, and that there is still an increased cooperation between health insurance providers, that structural adjustment should be carried out in the area, and that, in particular, secondary employment should also be addressed. One point that goes into special fees is that the university hospitals have also been tested – namely the AKH Vienna, the LKH Graz and the LKH Innsbruck – where it has just been shown that there is no transparency in the paid fees. This means that these fees cannot be checked by external financial control, for example, the house share is 0 percent, although the medical facilities of the hospitals are used. – That was the case in Vienna. Up to 19 percent of the share of the house was raised in Graz. There was no transparent distribution of senior doctors with regard to the subordinate doctors, and there has also been some competition with secondary work carried out by the doctors. One point that goes in this direction is that if you look at the Institute of Pathology, where there was that 76 percent of doctors had at least had a secondary employment and a head of the institute carried out a specialist coordination in which three-quarters of the doctors had followed a secondary employment. There has, of course, been a conflict with the interests of the service. It was no longer necessary to show whether the services were carried out within or outside the service time, and it was so that benefits were commissioned by the specialist in the direction of institute, which was not cost-effective in the case of Weitem. In the context of the debate, the OeNB-pension reserve has also been raised, which is now in place – on 31 December. December 2006 – €1.79 billion. This pension reserve will increase to over €2 billion by 2015 and there are still provisions in place with us, which provide that someone aged 55 years with 35 years of service can retire with 2% of the final pension allowance with 85 percent of the plus additional fees plus allowances. In other words, a person who is 40 or 42 today who works at the National Bank still has the possibility – although he is only 2% of the pension contribution – to retire in about 15 years, with 85 percent of the last consideration. So a system that no longer takes place with the officials at Weitem, because there was full harmonisation with the ASVG from 1955 onwards. In the area, these privileges – you can call them calmly – continue to exist. This has the effect that the average pensions at the National Bank in 2006 amounted to € 74,630, which means an increase of 13.5 percent compared to 2001. By comparison, an ASVG-pension in 2006: Maximum pension 35 000 €. It would, I think, be appropriate, even if one speaks of retirement as such and also of harmonisation to carry out certain follow-up effects. I also refer to the sustainability report you are presenting. We will be doing a follow-up test on this point, because it is an important issue to carry out a follow-up review in 2008. We have also examined infrastructure measures, including A7 Bindermichl, where the ASFINAG, together with the State of Upper Austria and the City of Linz, has implemented a project and where it has resulted in the audit of the Court of Auditors to solve disputes or problems in billing. I quote here – because the question always arises, the Court of Auditors should also examine in this case – Hiesl, the State Captain, who, in the context of the debate in the Upper Austrian Parliament, mentioned: I'll take the hat in front of the Court of Auditors. Only through the examination has it been possible to solve the cost allocation. Just briefly mentioned: Waste management, where cross-sectional testing has been carried out, is also an important point. A cross-sectional examination – also in the perspective – is not a centralist approach, but a first-level approach. Benchmarks are being developed to show how to solve problems better. Two criteria have been noted. This means that the cost-effectiveness of treatment facilities is only given from a certain capacity limit. It has been shown here that for four out of 32 plants this optimal efficiency is not available and that only 62 percent of the plants have the efficiency of at least 65 percent, as Kyoto says. So you see that the Court of Auditors' audit has brought a lot. I would like to thank you, first of all, for recognizing the work of the Court of Auditors, and I would also like to thank you for the increasing implementation of the Court of Auditors' recommendations, but would like to point out that there is a potential for action in terms of harmonising the OeNB sanctions with the ASVG system as regards the sustainability strategy and in terms of service and professional supervision at the embassies. I can assure you that if you work together – and I am sure that you do so – with the Court of Auditors, it will certainly succeed in avoiding misdevelopments and ensuring that the funds are used optimally and thus ensuring the sustainability of our financial resources in the future. I would like to thank you once again for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34137	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the present report of the Court of Auditors, series Bund 2007/4; Volume 1 – WIEDERVORLAGE, to be noted in III-48, i.e. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of this Court of Auditors report, set out in the 2006/12 series, in III-8 d.a. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[00:22:15]] 26. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-2nd reading) of the Court of Auditors, 2006/10 series (377 d.a.) 27. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-55 final) of the Court of Auditors, 2007/6 Series (378 d.a.) President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We now come to points 26 and 27 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Christ. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[0:22:47]] Member Hermann Kristist(SPÖ): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies Secretary of State! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! In fact, it is completely unthinkable to explain or discuss in 2 minutes the Court of Auditors' long documentation on the Bindermichl tunnel and the road building there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Reheat]] The fact is that there have been significant shortcomings throughout the project preparation and completion, that the country of Upper Austria, the city of Linz and the ASFINAG have not boasted in the entire implementation and that the constant sparking of the management committee has always led to subsequent changes and delays in the construction as a whole. The fact that this has of course brought a cost explosion of over €40 million must not be surprised. When it came to the allocation of costs among these three operators or projectors, there has always been great discussions. As we all know, the ASFINAG is still in charge of damages or in motion. That means there's something else going on. The fact is that one must thank the Court of Auditors for its very punitive, as always very conscientious and important research and processing of this whole project. Finally, the fact remains that everything is still not all right, but in any case the citizens in the Spallerhof and at Bindermichl were able to experience with certainty a significant increase in their quality of life through this tunnel, the current greening and the much more pleasant environment that has been created there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[0:24]] President Dr Michael Spindelegger: The next speaker is Mr Gahr. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[0:24:33]] Member Hermann Gahr (ÖVP): Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! The Court of Auditors has examined the adoption of the EUROPASS truck toll system. In doing so, the Court of Auditors has stated on a flat-rate basis that only if all economic and organisational measures are used up will this takeover be economically acceptable. There has been a total purchase price of €338 million for system costs, debt acquisition and interest. There has, of course, been a compromise due to the different evaluations available, on the one hand from the EUROPASS and, on the other hand, from the ASFINAG, on the other. Overall, the shortcomings in documentation can be found, in the area of ceilings, of course also in the area of negotiating tactics, but also in the field of advisory services. The Court of Auditors has clearly recommended that the controlling system currently in use in the ASFINAG should also be applied for these EUROPASS. He clearly recommends minimizing the effort everywhere and possibly using synergies. It is also very important that this system is continuously evaluated. Currently the truck toll system works. It will show the future to what extent it is calculated as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34317	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Your group's remaining speaking time: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague. [[0:26:09]] Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler(Green): Mr President. High house! I would like to refer to the previous debate only in so far as I believe that Mr Haimbuchner, who was in the meantime more or less beggared – that has already challenged him – is actually perfectly right with a few things. It must be possible, even if it is midnight, that at least selected parts from the Court of Auditors' work can also be discussed in plenary. Otherwise we can save ourselves at all! However, the question arises whether we should not then intensify our work in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. I am not quite sure that the ÖVP Group is right, but I am at your disposal. The offer is already available to me. Otherwise, I will no longer torment you; the suffering faces here are really hard to bear. Only on one point do I want to go into it so that we can bring back something positive. We said earlier that we were getting reports from the Court of Auditors depending on what the occasion is and what it is really necessary to qualify. These reports are sometimes critical, they should give rise to improvement, and that is often the case. At times, however, there is also something which, in turn, leads to the debate that, across the political boundaries, we are essentially of the opinion that one can appeal to what the Court of Auditors has to say. These are increasingly things that don't matter anymore – as important as that. is – to research any tunnel construction – we always need that anyway, we know it – but there we go in other qualities. One example is the question of evaluation of indirect research funding. That's an essential thing. We know exactly how we in the Financial Committee have constantly been bothering ourselves with these questions, that there are no evaluation tools at all, and how difficult it was to make a trip at all. This was essentially confirmed by the Court of Auditors, but in a way that could be properly discussed across the borders of the political groups. So there are some examples of this, which is something that you can keep in the Committee anyway. This is another indication that these reports should really be consulted. But in the whole context, I'm really slow to worry about something else: There is a good result, but that does not correspond in any way to how the debates are conducted here! This does not in any way correspond to that, and we really have to consider how we can shape it differently here. At the moment, we even have a very useful climate in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, that we are now bringing about longer agendas and that we can at least discuss them there. But in principle this is a question that we must now turn to, because this kind of debate does not in any way satisfy the report proposals. I have no solution yet, except that we in the Committee can discuss it intensively.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34409	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[0:29:33]] Deputies Alois Grastaur (FPÖ): High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I promise you, this is my last speech today. But I would also like to take this opportunity to address another topic of Upper Austria, namely the Mühlkreis-Autobahn and the Baulos Bindermichl. Mr. Kristi has already mentioned some things about it. I ask you: Who ever drove this route between 7 and 9 o'clock in the morning and passed through this Bindermichl tunnel? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Lutz Weinzinger.]] – Lutz, you were lucky, because normally there is an accident every day in the morning, every day, then the “party” stands up to the highway, and it is almost impossible to get there. [[Call the ÖVP: That's not true!]] Standby times and periods of storage shall be recorded which cannot be accepted. Something went wrong in planning, not just over €43 million, which is 40 percent more than was planned. What already moves me is: There are 43 million € in the tunnel, put in the sand – and there are no consequences at all! I just don't understand, because if you build such shit in a company, you'll probably be thrown out. In this case, Mr. Landesrat Hiesl sits on the next Caterpillar, sets up the helmet and makes the next building gap. That's not how it can go for long! That's where tax money is sold, and so it can't be! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Second point: The Committee also discussed the Baulos Inzersdorf-Schön near Kirchdorf. This is not for the debate today, but I noticed the following: There have been serious irregularities in the Court of Auditors' report, as it has not voted in favour of the Cuba, the material and the logistics. All these points were addressed correctly by the heads of the ASFINAG and to the satisfaction of the state of Austria, and the Committee asked the question: Then why have these three board directors been replaced? – Namely with Golden Handshakes: €700 000 per man and nose have been spent on it, not, as announced by the Minister, €280 000! In total, these are the 30 million schillings in old currency. That's a scandal! There tax money is powdered, so it cannot go on for the long term. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34460	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 1 minute remaining speaking time. Please, my colleague. [[0:32:25]] Member Josef Bucher (BZÖ): Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! Mr President, Dr. Moser! Ladies and gentlemen! I can only take one point from the many valuable reports of the Court of Auditors, namely the promotion of research. Indeed, we have done a lot in the last German government for companies in the field of research funding: by the end of 2006 to € 600 million per year. I have noticed – and this is also a little covered by the experience I have gained during the business visits – that the administrative effort for access to the research resources is far too complicated, that the entire process entails a huge administrative burden and that, in the end, much too little research contributions for the individual companies come out. I believe that this complicated form of resolution is in need of renovation and reform. We should really take this issue seriously and build on the fact that the economy needs the funding for research. They are a guarantee of growth, innovation and progress, and we are committed to any form of a reasonable solution. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34513	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[0:33:47]] Member of the European Parliament Conrad Steindl(ÖVP): Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! There are also positive Court of Auditors reports. Unfortunately, I have only 2 minutes to report on a positive report and not half an hour to vote on something. It is true that I am dealing with the selected measures of indirect research funding. Austria is truly exemplary and has a pioneering role in Europe. Indirect research funding shall be transmitted to the applicant by means of tax concessions. This indirect research funding includes the research allowance – old and new – the research premium, an indirect payment from 2008 onwards, and contract research for 2005. Overall, some €400 million were spent by 2004 and about €500 million was spent by 2005. If you could add that to the R&D quota – these premiums are not counted in the statistics – our R&D quota would be much better. There are also a few recommendations from the Court of Auditors: to define a uniform research funding and a uniform research concept, and to coordinate direct and indirect research funding, because there could be some overlaps. 3 per cent to 9 per cent of applicants account for 71 to 91 per cent of the costs requested here. However, I am confident that in the future, the small and medium-sized enterprises can also benefit very well from order research. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34567	The next speaker is Mr Faul. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[0:36:02]] Deputies Christian Faul(SPÖ): Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Moser, if I consider what matters we have already fought very strongly here, your speech was symptomatic for me. I didn't know exactly how to count, but I think you've moved sales today after at least 20 to 30 billion. This did not move the former German Chancellor very much, it also did Fritz Neugebauer and the colleagues there did not move very much. That means, for me, that the approach to this item on the agenda is wrong at the time. Mr President, Mr Moser, if I count on what your surveys cost, what the international comparisons are really worth and how little they find entry into the ministries and civil servants, I must say: Sometimes one really has the feeling that the examiner is happy when he comes over the preliminary report, the raw report that is still coming to the media. Whoever he has survived, he has already “overturned” it, because the main report here simply does not apply. If I consider the potential for savings that you, Mr President, and your officials are calculating and are ultimately not being implemented, then I must say: It is often a pity for this great work in the Court of Auditors with the many costs, with the great potential, with international comparisons. That's where you have to go. If, for example, I only make research funding today: My colleague, Bucher, says that's great. – In reality, we only need to draw comparisons with Sweden or Denmark, see the efficiency of research funding there, what comes out and what effectiveness they have by doing research institutes themselves and not making silent support of companies, I think: That's wrong. Here, great work is simply valued with too little importance. Mr President, Mr Moser, I have no time to thank and congratulate you; I am writing you a Christmas card.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34628	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. [[Abg. Hornek: (on the way to the speaker's desk) Just a minute!]] [[0:37:54]] Member Erwin Hornek (ÖVP): Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Bindermichl project was addressed. These are impressive figures, including from a technical point of view: 800,000 cubic meters of moving earth, 20,000 tons of steel – I hope VOEST steel – and similar data prove that this is a significant project. It is one of the most busy roads in Austria and is therefore a significant street train. [[Call to the ÖVP:... drove there?]] – Yes, I used to drive there, Mr. Colleague, because I use this road as a forest quadrupler. However, these imposing figures also show negative figures in terms of financial engineering – that has already been mentioned by my previous speakers – in particular with regard to increases in the cost structure. Therefore, the justified criticism of the Court of Auditors was useful that appropriate cost estimates and financing contracts should be concluded in good time. In the future, the Court of Auditors recommends that such complex projects in preparation be carried out in a much more precise manner. I would also recommend this to the planners of this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34692	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague. [[0:39:26]] Member Stefan Prehauser (SPÖ): Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! If I get a report from the Court of Auditors, I will always look at the recommendations on the last page. From these recommendations, from the charming formulation of the whole one can see whether it really pays to look more closely. Especially at EUROPASS, it was also a very charming formulation, namely, “to stimulate control. ” That gave me reason to look more closely at this. If one assumes that a company that actually gives well-prepared orders ultimately completes the business with an agreement of buyback, the company that has commissioned it itself wants to buy €150 million, which the one who has developed it but wanted to offer around €450 million, then one must already ask: What people are there at work? If the ASFINAG was still taking the court course in order to get the 150 million business over the stage, and then finally had to agree extrajudicially on about € 350 million, we have enough reason to think more carefully and be more careful in future. I thank the Court of Auditors for their work and wish him all the best.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34745	The next item is the speech by Mr Einwallner. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please. [[0:40:51]] Member Thomas Einwallner (ÖVP): (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Moser, yes, I really can only join in thanking the Court of Auditors. The reports are very good. With regard to EUROPASS, I can only say in addition to the comments made by our group leader: There was not only a truck toll system purchased, but a company. There is also a need to take these reports seriously. I would like to address the comments made by colleagues Herbs and Kogler – oh, the herbal and Kogler connection! They have also contributed to the fact that a lot of work has now been done on what has remained in the spring. On the freedom side – Mr Haimbuchner is no longer present – I would like to say: Exercise is the master! We boys need to see that we talk a lot, because exercise does the master. Please tell your Mr Klubobmann that he should let his young Members speak sooner and, above all, longer, then we do not need to stop these exercises at midnight. At the end of this first plenary session, as the last speaker of our group, I could almost say that some of the debates on the part of the opposition or also on the part of the SPÖ could be said: Good night! But I do not do so, but, of course, I wish everyone a good night for the first plenary day on the part of our group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34805	The next speaker is Mr Reheis. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking. [[0:42:16]] Member Gerhard Reheis(SPÖ): Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Since my group as the last speaker left me 15 minutes of remaining speaking time, I could leave myself a bit of time, but will not do so, High House. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: No threats!]] I would also like to say here again that it is not possible for a committee as important as the Committee on the Court of Auditors, which would have to debate four reports today, to hold the debate at midnight and then to expect it to go into the depths of content. Mr Moser's speech, which would be worth listening, should also be given more attention from the House. I do not think we should accept that the Court of Auditors' reports will be discussed at midnight. [[Abg. (Muhammad), those who cause this, are you yourselves!]] This also does not deserve the staff – I do not have a quarter of an hour, Mr. colleague – of the Court of Auditors. I would like to thank all the members of the Committee on Auditors on behalf of my group. It is always a very fair discussion. And I should particularly like to thank Mr Moser and the staff of the Court of Auditors for their work. Thank you very much – and good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-12-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00040_d8e34865	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteurs wish to conclude? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the present report of the Court of Auditors, series Bund 2006/10, in III-2 d.b. to take note of this. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Court of Auditors, the present report of the Court of Auditors, series Bund 2007/6, in III-55 D.B. to take note of this. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:44:50]] Vote on requests for time-limits President Dr Michael Spindelegger: We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Kößl, colleagues, to the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on the draft government proposal for a budget of 158. concerning a federal law amending the Security Police Act, a period of until 5. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We come to the vote on the request by Mr Parnigoni and Mr Kößl, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on Internal Affairs for reporting on the Government template 272 d.b. concerning a federal law amending the Security Police Act, the Border Control Act and the Police Cooperation Act, a period of until 5. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore also adopted. [[00:45:50]] Reading of a part of the Official Protocol President Dr Michael Spindelegger: On the basis of a request from 20 Members, I read the Official Protocol on the submission and decision-making of the requests of Members Parnigoni and Kößl, with which the Committee on the Interior has a deadline for reporting on the Government templates 158 and 272 d.b. per 5. In order to ensure that this part of the Official Protocol is deemed approved at the end of the meeting, it is hereby adopted. 'Members Kößl, Parnigoni, ladies and gentlemen shall submit the deadline proposals for additions D and E.' ‘The deadline application for Supplement D shall be adopted by a majority vote (for which S, V, G). The deadline application for Supplement E shall be adopted by a majority vote (S, V, G).’ Are there any objections to the version or contents of the read part of the Official Protocol? - That's not the case. The read part of the Official Protocol is therefore valid in accordance with § 51 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure as approved at the end of this sitting. [[00:47:09]] Inflow President Dr Michael Spindelegger: I am still announcing that in today's session, the self-employed were brought in applications 488 to 490/A. Questions 2492 to 2589/J were also raised. I call the next meeting of the National Council for Wednesday, 5th. ==References====External links== The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. This meeting will be started at Question Time. The sitting is closed.
