ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10723	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! I'm trying to get you all to take a seat. The meeting was opened. [[09:02:34]] Meeting of the regular meeting 2007/2008
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10748	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 6. On September 28, 2007, in accordance with Article 28(1) of the basic Regulation. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 17th. September 2007 at the XXIII ordinary meeting 2007/2008. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10765	The unreaded parts of the official protocols of the 28th and 29ths. Meeting of 5. ==References== Meeting of 6. In July 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Members Ehmann, Hagenhofer, Riepl and Lutz Weinzinger are reported to be prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10792	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following statement: The Federal Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer is the Deputy Chancellor Mag. Wilhelm Molterer, the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs, represented Dr. Ursula Plassnik by the Federal Minister for Internal Affairs Günther Platter. [[09:03:43]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10841	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Anton Gaál has waived his mandate. Instead of MEP Anton Gaál, Mr Christian Hursky was appointed to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the scribe, Mr. Jakob Auer, to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10892	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10913	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10929	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[09:05:03]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10956	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Women deserve MORE – finally eliminate disadvantages!” I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 10.25 a.m. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for a little more peace in the hall! First of all, Mrs Csörgits has spoken. I give it to her and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e10986	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I wish you all a good morning! Today we write the 27th. September 2007, and today is equal pay day. We have put this present hour under the title “Women Deserve MORE – Disadvantages at Last!” The reason for this has been explained quickly. In July of this year, the European Union published again figures on the differences in income between men and women, which are comparisons of hourly wages. And it is noted that Austrian women earn on average 26.4 percent less than men. The average difference in EU Member States is 24 percent – Sweden has a difference of 15.3 percent. The ÖGB women took up these statistics in order to draw attention to this discriminatory situation again, and we have converted this percentage of income differences into days and have achieved the following result: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is your income also included?]] In days, this means that Austrian workers must work an average of 96 days a year longer to reach the income of men. And today, exactly on 27 July. September, is this deadline: Men have already reached the income that women reach only at the end of the year, or otherwise expressed, very valued ladies and gentlemen: 96 days a year work Women are statistically free. This day is referred to internationally as equal pay day; the translation is somewhat bulky: the same payment day. But I think it really doesn't matter what this day is called, it's only about showing that in Austria women still deserve less than men, even if they have the same working time, even if they have the same qualifications and even if they have the same professional position. Ladies and gentlemen, this situation is unacceptable for the women concerned, and I assume that this is unacceptable for many of my colleagues here in Parliament. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and representatives of ÖVP and Greens.]] All of us together – politics, government, employers' and workers' organisations – are invited to shorten these symbolic 96 days so that the next equal pay day falls only in October or November, but with the objective that women will have the same deadline in a very short time, namely the 31. December, because then, together, we have achieved the successful fight against the differences in income. Reasons for income differences are known to us; I would just like to remind them briefly. One very important reason is that women continue to be very concentrated in those sectors that are among the lowest wage areas, such as trade, the textile industry, but also the tourism industry. Family breaks are also a point that has an extremely negative impact on income differences. The longer women have to stay at home – I put it in parentheses now – the greater the difference in income. The lack of enough family facilities, from infant care to nursing institutions, does its rest. Traditional roles and prejudices, which are also present in some of our ranks, also contribute to women's meeting for example leadership qualities that men are called softties when they carry out their duties in the household. Even the prejudice that women have no technical understanding is really dubious and not targeting. Reduced rise opportunities for women are just as much as the high part-time share of female workers. I could continue this list now, but I would like to raise the following point: There are many triggerers that lead to differences in income, and therefore there is also a need for many measures at many levels to eliminate them. It is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a great field of activity in front of us, but I must say that we do not start with zero. We have a well-functioning equal treatment law, we have a government agreement, which includes very, very good approaches to really move on here. Nor have the social partners been inactive in recent times, and I would like to address a few points here. It has succeeded in introducing 1 000 € minimum wage almost across Austria – there are still a few sectors that adorn themselves. Here I am particularly interested in the lawyers, where a demonstration had to take place recently. From this point of view, I therefore call on those responsible in the field of lawyers and lawyers to take this important step. It is not to be seen that your important and valuable employees do not benefit from this minimum wage agreement. Even if you explain to me that in practice you pay more anyway: You, as lawyers, need to know how important written agreements are. I therefore call on you to sign this minimum wage agreement and to give your employees the money they really have a right to! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The negotiated percentage of additional work for part-time workers is also a real, important step, but further important steps must be taken. I am proud to say here that the collective treaty negotiators are acting, because, ladies and gentlemen, at the same time as this current hour, a press conference of President Hundstorfer will take place together with the ÖGB Women's Secretary. Trade unions will place a very special emphasis on the reduction of income differences in future collective treaty negotiations. It is particularly gratifying, ÖGB President Hundstorfer and President of the Chamber of Commerce, Leitl, have agreed that they will work together – I repeat: together – to develop and quickly implement measures to close the income shears. I am proud of it and I am sure that the social partners are doing excellent work here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, but also at the international level, there is a lot of things going on: At its congress, the European Trade Union Confederation has put in place concrete measures which are also aimed at eliminating differences in income. However, the agreement of the European social partners has also focused on women's promotion and the reduction of income differences. So the social partners have declared themselves nationally and internationally, and they will take action. Policy has been called for, many important steps have already been taken, and further important steps will be taken. Finally, I ask you all, ladies and gentlemen, to: Let's put that power together! The elimination of differences in incomes requires many measures, but above all it requires: It needs political will – and we want it! I call on all of you to put together this national instrument of action in the sense of fairness and for the benefit of women in employment. You deserved it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11056	Mrs Bures spoke on a preliminary opinion. I would draw attention to the fact that, with regard to television transmission, it is agreed that the speaking time of 10 minutes will not be exceeded. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11077	Madam President. High house! I think it is a very beautiful beginning of autumn work in the High House when you deal with such an important topic for Austrian women as that it is our common goal to ensure more income justice in Austria. I would like to tell you that I am very pleased that the House has chosen this subject. Mrs Csörgits pointed out that the European trade unions are now 27 years old. Let's call out the Equal Pay Day, and you take this one, we take today to the occasion to discuss the issue of wage injustices between men and women. I have to tell you openly, since I can think, that there is this issue and we are discussing the issue of pay injustices. The call for equal pay for equivalent work has already been as old as the women's movement itself – by the way, for 50 years, it has also been enshrined in the principle of the founding Treaty of Europe. That is why I understand many who say: Same pay for the same work – I can't hear it anymore. And I tell you quite openly, I sometimes feel that I can't hear it anymore, because I don't want to hear it anymore. Therefore, I believe that today's debate should really take the opportunity to do something together in order to improve the situation step by step, to set ourselves the goal of lastingly eliminating wage injustices between men and women. I want – this is my goal – to make sure that the income shear closes step by step and that this injustice in income finally belongs to the past in 2020. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In the event that the discussion arises, whether this is a very ambitious goal or not: It's a further way to go, but I think we should set realistic goals and not promise things that we can't keep – I don't want to. I believe that if we take up together today this fight against wage injustices, which we are not only leading in Austria, but which is being conducted throughout Europe, we will be able to ensure that girls born today know only the topic of wage injustice between men and women more from the history books. However, we need to move quickly to ensure more income-righteousness in Austria. We must quickly ensure that income shears actually reduce from year to year. And I think – because Members said Csörgits needed a lot of measures – there are many steps to be taken to ensure that we finally get more justice. If so many stages are to be set aside, then it is important to see how is the starting situation where we actually start: According to Eurostat in Austria, women earn an average of 18 percent less than men, on the European average by 15 percent. We know that the difference in income in different sectors and professions is quite different. The extent of differences in income among workers varies completely. Workers in Austria average only 56 percent of the income of workers. On average, academics only have 70 percent of the income of academics. This picture accompanies women in Austria and across Europe, no matter where they work, and these injustices in income unfortunately accompany women all their lives. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Some have no collective agreement at all!]] Many ask themselves again and again what it is that we still have such an unfair distribution of income between men and women. This question has been asked very often, but unfortunately never really answered enough. This has to do with the fact that it is a matter of many things that we still have to deal with in order to eliminate income injustices. But there is not only one solution. It would be too easy to say: There we push the button, and then there is justice between the incomes of men and women. It's not like that! Many measures need to be taken, many stages on the way to fair income for women in Austria. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] However, we do not start with zero, but we have already set up first stages on the road to more income justice. But we know that there are many ways that need to be taken in order to increase the level of income justice; but as many ways as there must be gone, there is nothing going by, and this one way is by means of measures that will make work and family more compatible in the future than was the case in the past. In other words, we must ensure that children and professions are not in conflict, that children and professions are compatible and that this compatibility is not only a keyword, but is actually noticeable for families, and that sufficient quality care is necessary for our children, in the form of a care, where the children feel comfortable and where the parents know that their children are really well-informed. The fact that the compatibility of work and family is at the heart of or the way through which nothing passes through a sufficient range of childcare facilities shows other European countries where there are a high number of childcare places where many kindergartens are available. In these countries, income shears are smaller, where there is a higher female employment rate, where there is a lower poverty of women. I think that these countries should be a model. We should also ensure in Austria that the problem of childcare, namely the problem that in Austria it is not possible for many families to find, address and really solve a good care place for their child. The fact that this measure does not go by, also confirms international comparisons. This also confirms, for example, the Economic Research Institute, which is mentioned in its White Paper, also the European Commission. There is no one else who does not realize that the income justice between men and women has much to do with the reconciliation of work and family. I therefore believe that if we finally want to put an end to this infinite history of the unjust payment of women, we must solve the problem of the lack of existing kindergartens in Austria. This is the first stage this Federal Government has taken, and for which I have been a women's minister, and for which I have been very active or fought, and together with the countries, together with the mayors and mayors, we have launched a kindergarten offensive in order to provide more facilities for care. In this context, we have enabled an initial financing of €45 million for the next three years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] As a second stage, we have achieved that the fact that women do not earn even €1,000 for 40 hours of hard work in the week will be part of the past. In the future, there will be a minimum wage of € 1,000. We will pay particular attention to those professional groups that are still missing and will ensure that they follow them as soon as possible and that there is a fair reward for 40 hours of hard work, at least € 1,000 minimum wage for them. This long-standing demand is now finally being put into reality. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also think it is fair that women who work part-time – 740 000 women in Austria – will be in the future: Overtime is overtime, and an overtime has better to be paid, even if it is part-time work. This is the third step we have taken, namely to demand more money for more performance. Overtime needs to be paid better than it was in the past. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The fourth stage – which was almost a mountain ranking – was aimed at flexibilising the child's money. This is a very important contribution to winning the fathers the offer or the opportunity to stay with the child. But we can't imagine anything after these four mastered stages in the first months: There is still a hard road ahead of us, there are still many mountain ranges in front of us, but we are on the right path. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We have much to do, especially in the areas of education and better opportunities for women and the promotion of women in the workplace. I want to achieve that young women, our daughters, the young generation in the future actually know the fight against wage injustices only more from the history books.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11164	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Haberzettl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Haberzettl for his excellent report. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11188	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The previous speaker of my group, Mr Csörgits, has already expressly justified why this equal pay day is taking place today: because the income shears between women and men are further apart and measures to eliminate the income disadvantage of women are urgently announced. I am therefore pleased that today's current hour is dedicated to this issue at the initiative of the Minister of Women Bures. As a trade unionist, however, I would first of all like to refer to our core tasks, namely the wage and salary negotiations we have to conduct for self-employed employment in our country. Already before the summer, the ÖGB and the Economic Chamber have reached a principle agreement on ‘Minimum Wage’. It states that no later than 1. A minimum wage of €1,000 must be concluded in all sectoral collective agreements in January 2009. I see this agreement as an important step towards raising women's incomes, because although only a few sectors are below €1,000 in minimum wages, women are mainly affected. In a number of sectors, the achievement of the social partners agreement has already been achieved in recent weeks and months, and in other sectors its implementation is still pending. However, we trade unionists will ensure that this implementation will take place, and I also assume that the economy is on the employer side of its agreement. However, where the agreement of the social partners does not have a direct effect, that is in the case of the professions. It is indeed scandalous that the representation of doctors and lawyers in particular refuse a legally binding anchorage of €1,000 minimum wage for their employees. [[Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer: That's not true!]] Although the Austrian Bar Association would like to be kind and almost merciless to write a pass over €1,000 minimum wage in its stand rules, it is a collective contract in which the €1,000 minimum wage is anchored, but the legal representatives do not want to do so. The situation is not much different for the workers in the doctor's practice – almost all are women. There is also no national minimum wage of € 1,000. And in Carinthia, the minimum wage for a 40-hour job as an ordination assistant is only €783. We will not discharge the standing representation of the professions from their responsibilities. The top-ranking earners, who are always top-ranking in income statistics, can no longer press to pay a fair share of profits to those who have earned it, namely to the employees. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In the last few days, we have heard of a sharp rise in prices for food, housing and energy. We also know that the last tax reform has gone empty for those who earn little, because the negative tax – a tax credit for those who earn so little that they do not have to pay a wage tax – has not been increased. It is therefore clear to us that lower incomes need to be increased more. It is also clear that the next tax reform will have to benefit all employees of all incomes from self-employed work. In the data and figures currently being received by the media, there was talk of the decline in net income in recent years. You know me, I don't want to be beautiful and I don't want to admit that we trade unions sometimes have to be more energetic in wage negotiations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact that individual per capita income has fallen over the last 15 years is also very much linked to another development, namely the massive increase in part-time employment in recent years, and part-time work is in most cases nonexistent. In addition, part-time workers have often been used by the enterprises as cheap manoeuvrants, as no supplement had yet to be paid for the extra work of part-time workers. This will change thanks to the new working time arrangements developed by the social partners. This Regulation shall enter into force on the beginning of 2008. I would now like to focus on a group of employees whose hourly wages are not included in most income statistics. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] It is about the atypical employees, in concrete terms about the free workers, among whom there are very many women. In particular, social security is outstanding. Free staff also do not receive any child allowance as regards women in particular. In the case of pregnancy there is only a curative weekly allowance, i.e. € 7.42 per day, which is compared with
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11244	Mr President, your speaking time has expired. I have to keep the speaking time consistently. - Thank you. [[In the case of the SPÖ, please take a look at the box that leaves the speaker's desk. Haberzetl.]] The next item is Mrs Rauch-Kallat. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11277	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Women deserve more! – we can also absolutely vote in favour of ÖVP women, but also the ÖVP men, because it is unacceptable that wage differences still exist far more than 20 percent depending on the industry, although in recent years some changes have been made to the positive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Women's real wages have risen considerably, even in recent years. The average wage rose from € 13,050 to €16,000 a year, from about €14,000 to €16,000 a year. The wage level has increased. The income sheath has become smaller, but is still far too big. Pensions have grown higher for women because we now count child care time, with €1 350 per month at four years, because we also charge them for pension reasons. But there are still considerable differences. The differences among the workers, the lowest in the public service, are highest. Mr Haberzettl, perhaps the trade unionists of the private workers should sit together with the trade unionists in the public service, obviously they are a little more successful. And as I just heard from a representative of the professions, the Bar has had no visit from the union for eight years because of the increase in the salaries of the employees in the law firm. Perhaps there really is a lot of activity left out – and you were too much anchored in the Caribbean business. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: A high of the coalition climate!]] However, I would like to talk today, above all, about how we can increase efforts so that the wage differences between women and men in the foreseeable future, so that our daughters and especially our granddaughters can still experience it, no longer exist and thus the equal pay day not on 27. ==References== ==References== January is celebrated. I am somewhat saddened that the efforts of recent years have been somewhat rested in the last nine months. We know that the pay gap exists in three main areas: the rise in work, the interruption of work and the rise in work. In the case of careers, we need more women in technical professions, in new occupations, where pay differences are much lower than in traditional occupations. There have been a number of initiatives which have received little support from the Ministry of Women in recent months in terms of re-entry. We know that most of the family work is still with women. That means we also need the men in family work, in support at home. Of course we also need childcare facilities, no question at all, but the childcare facilities cannot replace the performance of the fathers in the families and should not replace the performance of the fathers and the participation of the fathers in family work. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In order to facilitate re-entry, there have also been a number of initiatives: Orientation courses for women in Karenz, Mama-Mentoring. Nothing has happened in the last nine months, quite the contrary: They let her fall asleep. As far as the rise in the career is concerned, it took nine months for an invitation to a mentoring program or a mentoring day for women to come at last. Finally, let me say something to the migrants: These are those groups of women who are most disadvantaged. They are twice as disadvantaged: language and training disabled; very often the residence permit depends on their husband, which becomes very difficult when there is violence in the family. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Binder-Maier.]] The last Federal Government has made intensive efforts to ensure that there is something going on across ministries. We have set up a corresponding post at the Ministry of Women. A migrant report has been available for nine months, but the Minister has not yet presented it. He was fixed and finished in January, but the interministerial working group has not been invited for nine months. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen: Women really deserve more – more effort by the Minister of Women and less inactivity in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11386	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11407	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The power acts are essentially limited to the rhetorical – and even this is a little tired therefore, it seems to me. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Let's just talk red and black, that's failed!]] If the Minister announces that she wants to close the income shears by 2020, and I have now heard what the Minister of Finance and the honourable Member Rauch-Kallat, who as a minister had had many opportunities in recent years, would give of herself, I must say: It is guaranteed that it is not even a step closer to the closing of income shears, if one is evocative about who has talked to the board of attorneys about the minimum wage, or if the union is limited to declaring once again that she is in any case in favour of the reduction of income differences, and if the woman minister – and I have listened very carefully now – has no measure to actually close the income sheath, except a secondary issue which is relevant but also relevant to fathers, namely the childcare places. – This is certainly not how it is, Mrs. Minister! Mrs Rauch-Kallat, as a government partner, you are in the process of enabling you to prevent whatever it is. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Zero did it!]] The fact is: If in this country a small man and a big man – let's say: one under 1.70 m, one over 1.70 m – would not earn much for the same job, the one 1 000 €, the other only 700 €, then we would have an uprising. But if it is true that a woman and a man earn a lot different for the same job, then nothing like that happens. In this case, the uprising has survived for decades. There's always argumented: Well, for that, the interruptions due to the children's breaks and the high part-time rate are crucial! I've worked through a mountain study once – let's take a look at it! If we compare only incomes of full-time workers, where there is no interruption by a child break that rises with the same qualification, we take highly qualified, we take economics, where there is no classical low-paid segment of women! There has already been a pay gap after ten years, which is juicy, namely, € 71 000 less per year for women than for men, and that in the case of equal qualifications, in the case of continuous employment and in the case of equal training. When you look at it, you see: We have across a pay gap of at least 15 percent to 20 percent with the same good training, in the same course of work – the only difference is gender. This is a humiliating injustice that needs a little more effort than to announce, as a great success, that the social partners have agreed that they will work out measures. If I look at a second number, I have to say, it is almost scary for women in our country: When do people earn the most in the course of their working life biographies? – For men, this is quite clear: One rises at a lower salary – on average, just over €1,000 – and in the course of life this becomes more and more on the statistical average, increases continuously, until men then retire with an average of €2 500. For women we start significantly lower, with 880 €, reach a peak of between 25 and 30, as it is almost 1 500 €, and then it goes down. Dear women in Austria! In the statistical average, you have already generated your highest income between 25 and 30 years of age. And the government says: We are then taking measures that we are considering anyway! We are proposing, at this current hour, at least a very concrete measure, because the issue will be on Parliament's agenda anyway. We are about to change the equal treatment law: Let us write in this law that every company, as it has to make a balance sheet, also sets and discloses a balance sheet of equal treatment as regards the incomes of men and women in operation, and then commits economic promotion to the fact that women are as well paid in the holding as well, as good career opportunities as men! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Madam Minister Bures, it is a must if the SPÖ is going to promise nothing that she cannot keep, because you have learned from government education, but if you promise something here, at least call us the beginning of a plan as to how you want to achieve your goals. That's what you owe us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11491	Mrs Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11512	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! “Women deserve MORE”: In fact, more than first, women deserve to see a very "excellent" coalition climate, which has already been notable and usual, and they also deserve more than that a women's minister, whose group has begun this current hour, speaks for ten minutes without giving a clear result. I think hardly anyone can know – of course! – why these differences in incomes occur. [[Abg. May. Lapp: Did you listen?]] [[Abg. May. Lapp: No!]] And above all, it has not presented a concept as to how these differences in income, whose reasons they actually did not sufficiently carry out and explained, can be ended. – I can try to catch up a little bit. Of course, open discrimination in collective agreements has long been impossible, and § 11 of the Equal Treatment Act excludes this. – In fact, however, it is to be seen, and this is already a point in which you, as the social partners, are called for to see that the evaluation of the various professions by the collective contracting parties, by the social partners, is such that it can be noted that those occupations in which women in particular are active are generally worse assessed, such as care and care professions. But that's where you're required! As you do not need to create a great excitement in Parliament, you just have to go and hold on to what is undoubtedly right, namely that the care and care of children, of the sick, of old people is a psychologically and physically extremely difficult task, which, of course, is also well rewarded. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] – Make I'm sure you'll do that. That's really up! A short word to 1 000 € minimum wage: A very high approach, however, the cost of living of this sum has long gone away, not only for those in employment, but of course also for pensioners. It would be more reasonable for you to consider how to “capture” the basic costs, the cost of living, and slow down a little, i.e. the immediate life: Food has become incredibly expensive, but above all the taxes and fees, that can tell and tell you every citizen on the street. Thirdly, There is no doubt that the burden, especially on women, on mothers through the care of children, naturally prevents them from fully devoting themselves to the acquisition. Now there are two approaches, two options: It is said that the state relieves the families, especially the mothers, the women, from childcare to total, thus providing childcare facilities from the youngest children to the end of the education and says: [[Abg. Street: 300 €... Cost!]] Please, stand your husband in working life, and you will earn well! - That's your approach. But there is also another approach, namely that I recognize childcare as value per se and say: Whoever does this for the benefit of the Community should not have any economic disadvantage from it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – This also corresponds to the freedom of choice, which we believe is closer to the child’s well-being, and is also in line with the desire of women. If you ask women what they were doing if they could decide without economic constraints, how they wanted to know their children who are not yet schooled, that is, until the sixth year of their life, then 9 percent decide that they would like to be fully employed, at least 49 percent say they would like to be at home, and the rest says they would like to work part-time. – We suggest that we take account of this, but we must ensure that this very meaningful attitude – for the child welfare and for the general public – does not cause any economic damage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why a word relating to Sweden, which has repeatedly been quoted: You already know that Sweden is making a course correction?! ==References== In January 2008, Sweden will pay an education fee, knowing that too early care outside the house does not do many children well. [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, because it has a... government! That's...!]] We therefore propose the following: Take the women's real life as a model for your policy, and continue to develop the child's money, create the possibility of freedom of choice, and above all – at the end of the day – you will also create the possibility that women who have devoted some or all of their lifetime to this activity will not remain unscathed at age, you will also create a mother's pension!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11610	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11631	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! You, Mrs. Minister, spoke of a beautiful autumn beginning that you want to spend with us today. [[Abg. May. Lapp: You have... Start of autumn!]] This beautiful beginning of autumn, however, has not been the case for many families with thousands of people concerned, and I am surprised that in the whole debate, Mrs Minister, if you really have such a concern, there has not been a one-time discussion of a real disadvantage on the part of women and families, namely what the child care allowance is going on and what is happening today through the family wallets due to the family minister's repayment requirements. [[Abg. Oellinger: That's where you are responsible! Haubner/Haupt!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Head and hooder!]] – I still consider this scandal to be scandalous, and I say something to you, Mr Ollinger: With the naked finger you don't show, you probably learned that too, so don't show it around! I will now tell you the following: how beautiful autumn for family M. with two children from Lower Austria is: Ms. M. worked in a company in bankruptcy in 2001 and 2002; In 2003, Ms M. received salaries from the compensation fund retroactively for 2001 and 2002 and thus in reality exceeded the limit of remuneration. [[Abg. Oellinger: Your ministers!]] Ms. M. was seriously cancer-sick in 2004. Ms. M. is now unemployed and Mrs. M. is now receiving, four years after this story, a repayment request for childcare allowance of €5 303.45 and does not know how to finance it. – These are the disadvantages and scandals that take place in this Republic because this government is dispossessing and taking away the money from the families, ladies and gentlemen! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls to the Greens.]] Or the A. family from Carinthia: In the family A. from Carinthia there was an early birth; the child lay between death and life for weeks at the intensive care station. Therefore, the companion had to do overtime, work to finance the care, the medications and also the subsequent care accordingly, and now, on the basis of the fact that he has overtime done and is located slightly above the credit limit, receives a surcharge of €3 005. [[Abg. May. Trunk: BZÖ-Puff!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Finally, you end this chaos, this dispute between you, Mrs Bures, and Mrs Family Minister for Children's Money, and you remove this limit of merit which we have not executed as BZÖ in the government, because we thought she was unfair, and that is why it has not been lifted. [[Abg. Oillingers: You've introduced them!]] That was our merit in the government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Oils: Incredible!]] That's why we're now also in court: Both families and many more are currently supported by us in court with legal aid. And see: We have achieved a first great partial success at the Landesgericht Korneuburg, and suddenly the family that complained there only has to pay back part of it and not everything anymore. [[Call:You have the responsibility...]] And I'll tell you something: In the appeal, we will bring this limit of merit to justice, which will be a huge success for the families and women concerned and which will then eliminate a disadvantage. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Minister, I expect you to take a clear position, and Her colleague will bring her to Räson, who will be hiding again somewhere today and suddenly will not appear again, so that this limit of merit is finally a thing of the past. I find the dirt with 1 000 € minimum wage touching. 1 000 € Minimum wage is announced! It is not a €1,000, this minimum wage, you know, Mr Haberzettl, just like Mrs Csörgits, that I do not know exactly, which in part forgets her own income, forgets how much she deserves. 1 000 € Minimum wage is 818 € net, so you are a little above the minimum income limit! This is not a praise sheet, Mr Haberzettl, this 818 € minimum wage! It's not a famous leaf! They should have survived and reached a much higher minimum wage, which is also above the minimum income or minimum security, which is now being decided. In fact, women need an urgent tax reform in this country, which relieves them, because the increasing cost of living by increasing the prices of milk, bread, butter, petrol and the fees that cause the income problems that women have in daily life. That is why we call on the Minister of Finance to finally make a tax reform! Down with wage tax, relieve businesses that reintroduce women after an educational or educational career with higher incomes, which are also to be taxed on wage costs! That would be fantasy, that would be the right approach! [[Abg. Oillinger: I don't want your imagination!]] That is why we are going to draw up these reform proposals by the BZÖ for a tax reform, which is particularly beneficial for women and families, in our clause and then introduce them here. Then you will see that there are much better ideas than always only empty flakes and for years always the same, namely that you say: Yes, the women are disadvantaged, but nothing is done. We will ensure and challenge you in this regard that at last a tax reform – now and not in 2010! – is carried out in the sense of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11806	Mrs Marek has now come to speak. It also applies: 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11827	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr Westenthaler, only for your information: Government members, ministers and ministers are obliged to execute laws accordingly, and the family minister cannot ignore the law. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The limit of trust! You can get rid of them!]] But I can assure you – and you know that, and I would ask you not to spread fear here – that, of course, social hardships will be observed accordingly and that the Minister here also uses her full discretion to help these families. I think this is also important. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I want you to remove the limit of trust!]] But now, ladies and gentlemen, on the income scrape, today's subject, and I would like to start with a very positive message, even though we still have a lot to work on here: Over the past 25 years, the income sheath has halved, and I think that is definitely a good news. [[Abg. Oillinger: But this has nothing to do with the Federal Government at all!]] But that means, of course, that we continue to work, because the wrong income differences simply need to be reduced even faster and – as far as possible, I am at my colleague Doris Bures. [[Abg. Dr. Moser: “Yet faster” is an euphemism!]] Equal income for equal or equal work is especially important to me as a woman in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. Of course, this ministry is an important part of it and there are important opportunities there to work on it. It has already been said: The reasons for the income shears are diverse – an important reason is the professional choice of women; Renate Csörgits also said this in her introductory speech: 50 percent of girls who complete a teaching are still employed in three occupations: Retailer, office salesman and hairdresser. This goes through school education up to the universities: We have a share of over 70 percent of women in the Faculty of Humanities, whereas less than 5 percent of women are in electrical engineering. - So we see: There is much to do here and here it is also important to start. There are also many initiatives to attract girls and women especially for technical professions. We have been making very successful projects and programmes from the labour market service for years! Keywords: “Women in Crafts and Technology”, a programme that has already run for several years and is intended to attract interested women and girls for non-traditional occupations. There are also two examples of ‘w-fFORTE’ and ‘woman in research’ here. Mr Bartenstein has also stated, in his target for the AMS, that 50 percent of the funds allocated to gender should again benefit women, which accounts for significantly less than 50 percent of the total persons supported and supported by the AMS. It has also been said that another important reason for income shears, the lower income of women, is part-time work. – Of course, women work to a large extent in part-time! We look at what the labour market data look like on a monthly basis, and I would like to say to you, in order to illustrate the overall problem and the desire of women for part-time work, that: In 2006, about 4,000 sub-time jobs were reported as open by the economy on average, but at the same time there were nearly 30 000 women who had been explicitly reported for a part-time job as a job-seeking job, something about the sevenfold. That's a signal to us that women demand part-time very much. Of course, this is partly due to a lack of childcare facilities. [[Abg. Street: 300 € Cost in Vienna, for example! A real social thing...!]] I think it is very important – and this is what we are doing – to scratch the sleeves on the different levels and to work intensively on the extension of childcare facilities. But it is important to me that this happens at all levels: Not only are we allowed to talk about kindergartens, but it is also about mother-in-law, it is also about school-care. It is very, very important to adapt to these levels accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Another very important thing is to develop qualified part-time. In the companies, almost no qualified part-time is offered. A reduction in working time is almost always linked to a reduction in the quality of the job and, of course, a significant income reduction. We need to work on this, because it cannot be that way – here we are also in talks with the companies and the social partners. Compatibility of family and occupation: Doris Bures mentioned this as the central challenge – I would like to underline that. Childcare I have already mentioned, very important, but it is also about creating awareness in the companies to take measures for a better compatibility of family and profession. This is where we currently have a study on the basis of which we want to show what a company has of it when it sets up measures here. This results in clear benefits, and this is also true to show. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And it is about motivating women to work part-time as short as possible – here too we have measures. I would like to ask you all: We all have to work to reduce income shears at all levels! This is not just a matter of laws, it is also a question of working consciousness, and I ask all those involved to help – only in this way can we achieve it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11950	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e11972	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This debate today is a debate with level for me, but I would like to say to Mr Westenthal: I think you should fill your memory gaps and remember that at that time it was chief and cane that caused it to be as it is today. That doesn't make me happy either! [[Abg. Scheibner: But you said you were doing better! What are you doing better? - Nothing!]] – Listening I want you to tell me: That doesn't make me happy either! You know that the SPÖ position is that you should pay back only the above if there are recoveries in the child's money. But there will still be debates, and I hope, in the sense of Austrian women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You have the Federal Chancellor!]] Secondly, the debate today – or it should at least be such a debate for all of us – is also a debate for me with a common will to change the situation of these pay inequalities. Some colleagues seem to forget that they too, as coalition partners, could make their contribution to this, because in the Government Convention we have in some respects decided or established important things that have to do with the fact that the closure of income shears should actually take place. We already want to support the girls. In this context, we also need to debate how we shape the Blum bonus in the future: whether it is here – and this should happen – that a priority for girls regarding the atypical teaching professions should be set. [[Abg. Strache: The flower bonus is very good! It's very good!]] I also invite the opposition to discuss and help girls enter atypical teaching professions. We want to eliminate the work evaluation that stereotypes in the work evaluation. That is, it's a difference when two people are employed in a furniture house, for example, a man and a woman, he's a kitchen planner, she's a curtain seller – and they're different. Both have been in operation for 18 years and receive different wages. Since the 1950s, it has been a matter of seeing that we assess the value of work almost the same. There is also a need to rethink and slowly – there are studies that have already been commissioned by the previous government – to ensure that we evaluate the work in such a way that the work of a woman who sells curtains is no less valuable than the work of a man planning a kitchen – in the same company at the same time. However, measures to improve the evaluation of so-called women's jobs and to promote careers must also be set up. It is not only about low-paid sectors, it is also about promoting women in top positions. And above all – and this has already been said several times today – is about the best possible support for re-privileged women and anti-discrimination measures. That is to say, it is a bunch of causes that have led to these wage differences being made today. However, this also requires a bundle of measures against it. And I do not want to mention some of the measures that are very concrete in my view. But let us also briefly talk about the distribution of paid and unpaid work in our country, in society, between men and women. In both cases, it is still the case that the man spends seven hours a week in the household and in childcare, but the woman is 35 hours. It is up to us politicians that we also treat this imbalance in social policy, that we do not get into these role stereotypes and say that this is women's work, and that's men's work, and they don't have to worry about it. Then we must also note that women live in different forms of life: with children, without children, alone, with partners, divorced, as single parents, however always. This also makes for different forms of employment for women. The part-time has, of course, already been mentioned today. Every fourth woman works Part-time, perhaps even voluntarily, sometimes but also involuntarily, because there is no return to full-time. Many opportunities for new forms of employment, as well as many traps – including the debt trap into which one is very easily tapped when one is in atypical employment conditions. Finally, I really want to address very specific measures that we could create together, because there are three of them: It is part of the policy that creates the framework conditions. It is part of the social partners who are also trying to implement this and enforce it in the enterprises. And they belong to the enterprises themselves. For example, we could achieve in the Labour Constitution Act – and this goes to the address of Minister of Labour Bartenstein – that we create enforceable business agreements on gender equality plans and women's promotion plans in businesses. To anchor that in the Labour Constitution Act, we can soon create it in a joint effort. For example, we can create a transparency of income with the novelle of the equal treatment law ahead. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] It is also possible to establish that establishments ensure this transparency. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] However, we can also regulate the commitment – the last sentence – of economic promotion to the promotion of women in the field of equal treatment. I hope you're working together.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12053	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12074	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! “Women deserve MORE” means the topic of the current hour. – Yes, the ÖVP also wants to devote more to women – more attention, more income, more justice, more of More. In this future work it can build on a more of the past Federal Government under Chancellor Schüssel. Much has been achieved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Over the last few years, the total number of students at the universities has increased by 30 percent, and the number of students at the universities has increased by 80 percent. As regards the proportion of women: 53 percent of graduates and 56 percent of students. That's a good result. I am also pleased in this context that there is the first rector at a university in 2007. I hope it follows the second, the third, the fourth and so on. So here's the banner broken. It has already been mentioned: The figures alone are not yet calm. 80 percent of pharmaceutical students – with large I – are women. Why? - I've been working on it. The work of the pharmacy chamber is very convincing. Women like to become pharmaceuticals because they are able to reconcile family and profession very well in this constellation. We need to monitor and analyse the scene more systematically, more comprehensively. On the other hand: Psychology, pedagogy – Humanities, here there are also 60 to 80 percent students, also in biology, women are interested in life. But what happened to the income situation – I think Mrs Bures mentioned it – is: Academics earn 70 percent of the men's income. Why is that so? The employment situation, the income situation cannot depend solely on the desire to combine work and family. The actions to promote women in science are taking place, but perhaps not enough. It is a phenomenon that funding in the field of science and research has led to the so-called attracting of women into a niche, into a supporter, so that in other areas where it is a lot – Wittgenstein Prize, START Prize – one is a bit out of obligo and says, well, there is still the Elise Richter program, the Charlotte Bühler Fellowship, the Hertha Firnberg program and so on. [[Abg. Sburny: The proportion of women has fallen in research!]] They usually do not become effective when it comes to career development. And in summer, Mrs. Sburny, we heard in Alpbach that in non-university research – yes, Mr. Faymann is required – the number of women has even fallen. So efforts are necessary in the field of science. Efforts are necessary in the field of education. I am very pleased that Mr. Hahn has presented the program “Study Checkers” – great I – because this question, which subject, which profession I choose, already needs to be asked and processed much earlier. [[Abg. Strache: All women are terminated in Seibersdorf and replaced by men!]] If we have 50 percent of the Maturants today who only think after the Matura: What am I doing? Which degree do I choose?, then you have to start here in school. So work is enough in front of us, there's always a job assignment. It's also to be done in an area where we have to manage, with models, role models. At this point I would like to call the computer scientist and professor of science Gerti Kappel from the Technical University of Vienna, who is particularly interested in dissertations in the technical, scientific and technical field and who has been successful. ==References== It will present the successful completion of the first stage of its student funding programme. Whatever we need in all cases is an effort in the area of further development of scholarships and the promotion of studies. It does not mean everything that is meant to be good, even a good development. Taking account of age limits and occupational activity in a very specific way, this also leads to a delay in the degree course. If family and children are once in life and welcome and require attention, then reflections on career development will be remedied. So to advise here, to start at school, to constantly evaluate whether the funding programmes have also achieved their objective, that is our essential approach in the large area of education, science, research and promotion. I would like to thank the public service at this point. He has been a pioneer and a pioneer in all historical eras. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] - I'll finish. – He will continue to take over this avant-garde function. Education and science are highly affected. I look forward to good, successful – successful for women – years and the associated efforts.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12138	Mrs Mag. Honey. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12159	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! “Women deserve MORE – finally eliminate disadvantages!” – A truly courageous advance of the SPÖ! Immediately after these inconceivable revelations – namely the discovery that women in this country are being disadvantaged to men – the SPÖ benefits from all its possibilities to immediately eliminate this abuse. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Sburny.]] In doing so, she is not afraid to use everything she has to offer – as a government party – and she benefits from any means available and even calls up a current hour. – Wow, so all serious, if I were a SPÖ Member now, it would be embarrassing to me. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What do you want to tell us?]] For a year the SPÖ has been the strongest party here in the National Council. And all you have to offer us today is this current hour. - Where are your templates? Where are your applications? - Please, let's see what you've worked so far. Let’s look at the work of the coalition so far – they called it “Etappen”. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] The Working Time Act: 25 per cent increase in additional work for part-time workers. Part-time workers are, we know, mostly women. With this regulation you make one: The increased work of part-time women – 25 percent supplement – is still disadvantaged over the increased work of mainly full-time men with the 50 percent supplement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The disadvantage remains. - Point one. Point two: Minimum wage regime. They promise us the minimum wage of €1,000 and declare that women are the main beneficiaries. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] But what do we really have, here and today? - Nothing, nothing! Similar collective agreements are to be concluded by next year, until the next year. Let us look at it, the social partners will do it. But from a women's policy perspective, this – the social partners will already judge – is now a threat. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Not least, the red, male-dominated trade union leadership contributed a very large part to the fact that over the last 50 years we have these massive income shears between men and women in Austria – larger than in the European section. For 50 years, the focus of trade union work has been on full-time male workers in large businesses. The fact that a female low-paid sector was starting up – you have to say – and that this, of course, supported the existence of the male labour sector, has been taken over for decades. Today, we know that almost 70 percent of all small employees are women, 84 percent of all part-time women are women, and that they are mostly women who are employed on a temporary basis. And so we note that even today, the last end of the trade union, the social partners and this government unfortunately accept the disadvantages of women on the labour market. With perhaps minimum wages – sometime – and without a legal minimum wage, just as we Greens demand it, we do not come further. This is really very, very unfortunate. – Law on working time, minimum wage. And point three, for your purpose – and you could say again, to your threat – to double the employee's participation in a share: I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, from SPÖ above all: Who will above all benefit from it? Is it not again the men who are mainly active in those sectors – metallurgists, energy industries – where you might get supplements, and the women in those sectors, where nothing looks out again? – This is your certificate of performance for the last months. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] I can only say yes, women deserve more. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ, women deserve more openness, more action. You definitely deserve more than just a current hour with many, many announcements. You deserve more!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12245	Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12266	Madam President. My women's ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! “Women deserve MORE” is the topic. I would like to say to you that there is another saying: “There is nothing good except you do it.” – And that in the direction of the SPÖ. The SPÖ represents the Minister of Women, the SPÖ has for many years put women ministers here in this Republic. It was 80 percent in the Second Republic in the government that it could have done a lot. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] We'll see what's going on now. In women's policy, you rightly complain, very little has happened as far as income shears are concerned. There are still women who earn less than men for the same performance. That's what we heard. But I am also telling you another example – and we have also read this in the equal treatment report, and this is also rereadable –: We can only find equal rights for women if we also involve the men. There are few cases where men who want to go to Karenz are prevented from doing so by their employer. This is also the case here, because in the end this also falls on women's heads. Finally, it is the women who have to stay at home. This shows that there can only be one match and in no case a match – and that's exactly what you're always trying to do here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let me take another example from the Social Ministry. The Social Minister of the SPÖ, Mr Buchinger, has set out a job where he has also promoted it, of course women are preferred. There was an applicant, Mrs. Magister Kreißl, who was the best candidate, was a woman, but had the wrong party book. Instead of her, the Minister of Social Affairs has hired a poorly qualified man in the Ministry of Social Affairs. [[Oh, call at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is social women's responsibility! That's where the man gets hired!]] This is women's policy à la SPÖ. That's exactly what you're actually doing. They stand here demanding something, but when it comes to implementing it, it looks completely different. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] The self-proclaimed women's politicians in the SPÖ always forget to respond to the real needs of women. We've heard it too: It's the women who don't necessarily want to have a babysitting from birth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] The women want to work, that's right, but not right after birth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek.]] Obtaining Austria with children's cribs cannot be the goal or the right way, but high quality and good childcare. Many women wish for mothers for their children because it is simply a much better care, a more individual care for the children. [[Abg. Strache: 300 € Children's crimp money in Vienna! That's your social responsibility!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: The truth content of your speech is very...!]] Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, if you say you should do it, then offer it! There are far too few daymothers. You're in the government, you're in the state governments. And exactly where you sit, it doesn't happen at all. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Scheibner.]] On the example of Vienna we see: Mothers are not supported at all, are not forced. Only the cribs are forced. This is the wrong way because it does not correspond to the desire of women and mothers. If you already talk about “Women Earn MORE, ” then we are talking about women’s rights! It is also the SPÖ that prepares the ground for the entry into force of women's rights in this country. It is the SPÖ, which is responsible for mass immigration, for bringing men into the country, which really only live by the motto: Women to the stove, women to suppress, women to put on a headcloth and women no longer leave out, women to go to work. That's also the SPÖ! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Madness!]] The SPÖ has also allowed there to be a religious book in Vienna, which reads literally: If the woman does not obey, first the common bed should be avoided. And if that's not enough, physical disciplines must be carried out. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a religious book that is admitted to public Vienna schools that have passed through the SPÖ City School Council! This is women's policy à la SPÖ! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Take a look at the nose and see that such things do not happen any more! [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] That's really a shame for the country, I'm here with you. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It is a shame that an official religious book may demand such a thing. There's really something really get through, that can't be! We cannot allow this to happen in this country, that there are women here who are really oppressed! You're responsible for this! You're trying to make this happen permanently by any nice speeches. [[Abg. Parnigoni: That's a shame that you're making nonsense!]] They're trying to present themselves here as women's saviors. In reality, you do not address the real problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] This is also true in the public service. You can even read it in the official equal treatment report here in the House that we received. There's inside: In public service men are disadvantaged if they want to go to Karenz. Take your nose, ladies and gentlemen from the government parties! See that this will make it possible for men to have the same opportunities and rights, because only then can there be real equal rights for women as well. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] That's something you don't talk about here. And in spite of all the religious dogmas: As a liberal, we stand for this: Women must not be oppressed, no matter what religion they belong to! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12442	Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12463	Madam President. Ladies Federal Ministers! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Yes, women deserve not only more but above all equal opportunities. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now the Buchinger is coming!]] This challenge is supposed to be for everyone. Only: A government, an executive, is expected to be a little more. That's why I'm saying: Except for beautiful words, except for beautiful statements of intent, except for a lack of concept, not much has happened so far. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (in the direction of Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger) There are still a few Members! You can bust them too!]] And in this one year you have not taken advantage of the opportunity to do something specifically for women. Example number one: the much praised minimum wage. As far as I have already been very impressed, the trade union's concern for women is, as far as a better income situation is concerned, but I wonder: Where has the union been in recent years? Are you too busy with yourself? Were you too much away from the people? And now all of a sudden this concern and this complaint that women still have different incomes?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Parnigoni: What have you done for the last seven years?]] Now comes the declaration of intent that there should be a minimum wage for all sectors. But You know very well that there are sectors in which more and more women are working, which do not yet have a collective agreement. This is the case especially in the health sector, in the care sector, in cosmetic and massage jobs. These are declarations of intent, because you do not know when this minimum wage will come. Is he coming in 2008, is he coming in 2009? Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, you always say work must pay off. If I look, 1 000 € gross is 818 € bar on my hand, I ask you: In 2007, how should a single parent, a single parent with this salary in terms of increased cost of living, what energy, what taxes, when it comes to food, with regard to petrol? – Therefore our demand on the part of the BZÖ: If you already want income justice to exist and a higher level of income justice, then we say 1 300 € gross are honest 1 000 € at hand. Example number two: Childcare. Women continue to have the main responsibility for childcare and expect this government More common approach and, above all, less ideology. What is happening here again with the child care millions in cooperation with the countries is really mocking every description. I wonder, Why is care by daymothers less eligible for funding than public institutions? Why can't you agree on this good care model here? One thing I also expect, and here I really appeal towards ÖVP, that you finally remove the consequences from this senseless and unadministrable limit of merit. You know exactly that this limit of merit from the last government is a problem. You could have solved this problem, but nothing has been done to this day. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we say to the BZÖ: Let's make the childcare allowance again an income-independent family benefit, where no group of persons is excluded, so that it is easy and cost-saving to administer and manage! Women also need more safety, more recognition and more fairness in families; they do not need this embarrassing spectacle between the two competent ministers. I will tell you here if you, as politicians, are not aware that this limit of merit has been abolished, then we will see that we will at least bring it to justice. [[Abg. Mandak: You introduced it!]] We're lawyers of the families here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Example number three: Old age insurance for women. This was never a theme of the great coalition until the year 2000. Only in the black and orange government has there been for the first time four years for childcare as real retirement periods. For the first time there have been seven years of self-employment for a future pension, the rest can be filled up in future by periods of childcare and care. Now you would have the chance to develop as well in the area of old-age insurance, for example, to recognize care periods as real retirement periods, or at last that generation of women you have neglected so much to give what they need. There are thousands of women in this country who are over 60 years old and who have no pension due to too few working hours, but also because they have only taken care of their children. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Time!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] At last give this generation what you owe, and do it like Carinthia with the mother money, where we have acted exemplaryly! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] That's why I'm closing, and I'm finishing up...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12576	Ladies and gentlemen, I must make the same right apply to all! You have still been able to speak several sentences after the end of the speaking time. Thank you very much. Your speaking time has expired. [[In the case of BZÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Ursula Haubner.]] No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[10:25:40]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e12612	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13285	The following template has also been received: Final document of the meeting of government representatives on the extension of the declaration on the production phase of the Ariane carriers until the end of 2008 (199 of the Supplements). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing this. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13312	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda, asked for the self-employed motion 309/A(E) tabled at the same time by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the strict application of the Rules of Procedure to prevent the progressive Islamisation and the associated terrorist threat, instead of urgently treating the establishment of a police and surveillance state. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13336	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 and 5 and 6 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13363	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, a day-blocking period of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been envisaged, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP 131 minutes, green as well as FPÖ 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this proposal an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[10:27:53]] 1. Point Report of the Committee on Education on the Government Template (137 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Act on the remuneration of certain teaching and education activities in schools in the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture and the Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry and the Federal Law on the Teaching Practice (207 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13399	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first is Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13430	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! This law is one of the necessary conversion laws in connection with the educational universities. First of all, there are no special or grosser things in it. There is, however, one point that I have already mentioned in the Committee that foreign language assistants to schools, the well-known Native Speakers, should now be improved by being insured under social law, an accident and pension law and being insured for the unemployed. This is basically positive and supportive. If I understood correctly, it was so that there has not been this social security scheme so far. We know this from the economy, where companies are trying to save by not really having social conditions. The point is only if one legalizes this, social security, then it usually becomes more expensive. Now I read in these legal documents that this law will not have any financial impact on the covenant. There is already the question: If The social security scheme now takes place if social security contributions, pension contributions are paid for foreign language assistance, then there was otherwise always an employee's contribution and an employer's contribution, where you can say: The employee's contribution has also been raised so far. But what about the employer's contribution? Who's paying them now? If there are no additional effects, then it can only be said that the employer's contribution is covered by what has so far been paid for the remuneration of foreign language assistance. But it may not be possible for new social policy brand SPÖ to create social security schemes in such a way that, from their previous point of view, those concerned pay all the costs and contributions, including those that the employee has to pay. We will also ask a question – because it was answered incompletely – and let's see what the situation really is. I hope that it will not happen in practice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In general, we will not agree to this law, for a reason that we have always argued in the past: because, unfortunately, you as SPÖ have not been able to change this – the separate training of teachers for the 10- to 14-year-olds continues and continues to be prescribed. Of course, you know as well as we do that every form of a common school has a basic condition, namely that there is a teacher training that is brought together. All the doctors in this system, which is separate, which is still not brought together, are something that will certainly make us difficult in the long run. That is why we will not agree to this change. Another point that the SPÖ has repeatedly called for in the past is that there should actually be a common educational training for all pedagogical professions. Of course, this also affects kindergartens and kindergarten teachers, who in Austria – I believe Belgium is the second country in all of Europe, where this does not take place at university level – still need to find their way out with a matura school. These mature schools are good, do good work, but in view of the challenges - especially in the area of early promotion and early language promotion - there can of course be far too little in training at these schools. Here the universities and the educational universities would have to make significantly more offers. That is why we believe that pedagogical education should also be adapted and introduced at these educational universities. I would like to draw attention to one point which was somewhat under-explained during the last week's debate on the question of "Migrant children and disadvantaged children in the education system" – which has come very wide in the media – namely the question of what the kindergarten visit or the non-participating kindergarten visit has to do with this disadvantage. There is a study by the University of Linz, Johann Bacher, which I hope all those who deal with education have already read. Johann Bacher tried to calculate the duration of the kindergarten visit from the PISA data and derived from what effect this will have on the further school career. And here – that's really remarkable –: Children who visit the kindergarten for more than a year have, on average, up to the age of 15 years. Learning year picked up or cut off by a year of learning better than the children who do not visit the kindergarten or a maximum of one year. You really have to let that break on your tongue! If one finds at PISA that the average difference in the second generation of children with migration backgrounds is about one and a half years of learning – that also has social backgrounds – but one year of it could be offset by a single simple measure by ensuring that all children in Austria visit a kindergarten over a period of three years, then it would be expected to be statistically expected that these children will pick up a year of learning. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] But that doesn't happen in Austria. That is why we take up a demand which has been discussed or repeatedly brought into the government, for a long time in the government parties: We want there to be a free kindergarten in Austria for the three to six years old; a demand that the Styrian ÖVP chief Schützhofer repeatedly raises. We will also give you the opportunity today to vote on it by name. This kindergarten visit must be and can only be done free of charge, because it is no different if everyone is to visit him. An essential point for the lack of kindergarten visit is not that parents do not want to do so in many cases, but that often has financial backgrounds. If you look at the contributions that have to be paid – for example, in Vienna, where the border for family income or household income from which you have to pay is €1,000; in other words, with two children or with one child and two persons in employment, you are under the poverty line and you are still allowed to pay kindergarten contributions in Vienna – then the magnitudes in which many cannot afford to send their children to kindergarten. That is why we believe that this free kindergarten should and must be introduced – as soon as possible. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13558	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and properly implemented and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13711	Mr Dr Niederweiser came to speak. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13733	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Before I come to speak to this law, another word to Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. You have attacked Minister Buchinger on account of his – in your opinion – too little consideration for women in his place of business. [[Abg. Kickl: This is the party book economy that Buchinger operates!]] This is really inappropriate in this case. The Federal Minister Buchinger's department is like no other women in management positions. It was only last week that a section manager was re-ordered. This ministry has the highest share of women in total and, according to the equal treatment report, receives the best witness from all departments. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So that's where you really chose the wrong one, Mrs. Deputies. It is about two laws: the inclusion of certain teaching and education activities and the Federal Law on the Teaching Practice. Mr Brosz said that he had little to do with content. I wonder why the Greens and the FPÖ have been reported as counter-voicers and will oppose these improvements. This is not about the basic reorganisation, but about very concrete laws which are now needed for the educational universities, where the opening ceremony in Vienna just started about 35 minutes ago. They simply need this to work, and therefore there should be a consensus on these laws as well. This TOP, however, gives an opportunity to make a few basic remarks on teacher education, as did Mr Brosz. The law on educational universities only partially meets the requirements of modern teacher and teacher training. You know, it has been decided by the previous majority and is now being implemented. We need further professionalization. We also need the involvement – we agree – of kindergarten education in the educational universities. There should also be joint training in the field of secondary schools. In this regard, I am very grateful to Minister Hahn for his words in recent times. So we agree, I think. We also agreed to a further development in the coalition paper. On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Not that the content would not be important for the three- to six-year-olds, but, I believe, we have a constitutional problem. We know exactly who is currently responsible for the three- and six-year-olds to take action here, and that is certainly not the Ministry of Education, but these are the countries and the municipalities. There you can already try to instruct the Minister, but she does not currently have the responsibility. If the new constitution should give it to the Federation, then we can talk about it further. We already have the problem with the education plan, which really can work out it in a form so that it can also be applied to the countries and communities. I believe that the National Council is a good one if it adheres to the Constitution in its decisions. Let me conclude by saying another thing – because we are talking about teachers today and because school began: We know that teacher/teacher being is not only a strenuous but also a very important profession. They are competent intermediaries of content, teaching learning, educating, motivating, assessing, consulting, simply forming themselves, are travel guides, replacement mothers and much more. They are people with strengths and weaknesses and have successes and failures in their work like all of us. Much succeeds well, some fail. We wish all of them joy at work and also say to them: Thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13782	Mr Graf, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on Desirable time: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13804	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Madam President. High house! The first two debates already show the dilemma in which one is ultimately involved in an educational debate when it comes to working in the field of teacher education and training. On the one hand, there is Mr Brosz, who says he rejects the path of the educational universities – just as we do. It is not clear why educators at various institutions are trained differently in the field of education and other technical training, depending on their school level. I'll give him all the right. On the other hand, he wants kindergarten training to take place at the educational universities and submits an application. – That’s not really conclusive. If I don't really want an institution, I can't equip the institution with additional competences. We have a relatively simple approach. We say: The pedagogical academies of the pedagogical academies have begun after a long discussion process in 1997, i.e. by a decision that was not – as Mr Niederwieser said – taken during the last period. The basic decision of the chicken was taken in 1997, in the large coalition ÖVP/SPÖ or, if you wish, SPÖ/ÖVP; even though it does not take into account that teachers and teachers may be grouped together at an institution. There's a lot to do here. A transitional period of ten years has been created by the way – and we have already criticised this in 1997 too. In reality, this is a horror for every institution. Now this transitional period is coming to an end, the chicken is being carried out, and it is now practical to start the operation. Then you have to put in place a few accompanying measures, such as the legislative matter now in place, which will regulate the remuneration of teachers and the like in the following way. That is where Mr Brosz's criticism is completely correct and not yet erased. The question is as follows: Is that a savings program now? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, that's not a savings program!]] I know it has no normative force when it comes to: no extra costs, but the objection is completely correct and not yet cleared. You'll see. We have nothing against it, if it causes additional costs, only if it is so, and then you should simply decide. I think you can reach a consensus here in the home with extra costs in the field of education or also teachers. We don't carry the way in the wrong direction, even if it's like the last kilometer in a marathon race. Why? – If one rejects this in principle, it is not reasonable to put in place measures here unless – that would have been the invitation – one is thinking about how it is now being made transitional in order to create a definitive system of joint training for all teachers at universities, namely university education. But there is no approach, except for some newspaper reports, now also by colleague Federal Minister Hahn, which is very surprising. You have to see if you can put on it. I also believe that in this House there is a majority in favour of university education in this area and that if the majority is present, the majority will should actually be helped to break through. What is missing is really a short-, medium- and long-term strategy, as one manages to ensure that training is harmonised or improved. I would also like to say that there are broad areas in the educational universities, which work in part better than in universities, especially in the field of education. But I think it must succeed in finding a common system in which the better elements of education are ultimately fixed and summarized in the tertiary education sector. This is also a question of competence, which manifests itself through the dispersal of two ministries. The fact that one is dealing with a particular field of education in the Ministry of Education is de facto weakening the field of science and tertiary education. But now it is. That's something we don't really support. In addition, the question must also be asked: Does Austria need 17 educational universities? Isn't that a little too much for this country? This costs all the administration and money and the like. In the end, there's a lot to be done. I'm sure we need to think in this direction – without ideologised glasses, without saying: If you have a good, great teacher and teacher training in the tertiary area, this is already the preliminary stage to the overall school – which we reject by the way. I do not believe that, but at best this is the first step towards providing our children, our young people with even better trained teachers than a social, community service that we would like to share. I am convinced that the discussion will take place in this direction in the next few years. However, we should not allow too much time to pass, but we should immediately tackle it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13848	Mrs Brinek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 4 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13870	Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In fact, the law has several roots. To the law for the educational universities: The Akademie Studiengesetz was passed in 1999 with the SPÖ. The negotiators were Antoni and Brinek. I'd like to quote details about this. This has had a good reason, and the preparation has, in fact, been justified for a longer period of time. They cannot achieve the change of an institution, the change in the philosophy of training, the change of the curriculum by exchanging the door signs or simply by committing a will. Remember that now, at this hour – I congratulate rector Hackl and her team – the first inauguration celebration of the first educational college in Vienna will be held! I think you're joining the congratulations. Remember, too, that four organisations in the field of teacher education and training are united with the educational universities, including the agricultural educational institution! Such a fusion does not take place from today to tomorrow. The educational universities will need more habilitated staff in the future. They have so far done great work in this conversion phase and, as I believe, have become a legitimate, independent teacher training and further education facility. Thank you very much for this preliminary work and implementation work. The pedagogical universities – I have had many conversations with them – do not want to become outposts, no departments of the university. That's good. There is an independent profile, and there is an independent training programme for teachers in the field of compulsory schools. First of all, the transformation of the understanding from the old recipeology, from learning on the model to a professional policy orientation is necessary. This is not a matter that can be achieved by a rally, by a decision in Parliament, but that must happen in the minds. Teachers need to be more independent pedagogical actors in class and be able to deal with today's challenges. This requires teachers in the field of compulsory schools, teachers at public schools, primary schools, special educational institutions and so on. It is about accompanying them in this self-employment-become also being legistic about what we are doing today. The educational universities want to cooperate with the universities, but they do not want to become part of them. This cooperation has been initiated, is initiated, has even been drawn up by some cooperation programmes; also – as we welcome it from the Group – in the field of higher education courses, studies on the training of kindergarten pedagogists. But even the kindergarten school will not be able to convert you from today to tomorrow into a university or university, and that is a good thing. There are, for example, teachers to consider life - history moments, and more. Ladies and gentlemen! For the university, we can learn from the educational universities, such as how to make access arrangements. We have these access schemes – if you want: Admission procedures – also legally anchored. We have seen with great interest how the educational universities strive and how they have managed to communicate the demands on future teachers, students, and how much the principle “Only the best should become teachers!” can be implemented. From this point of view, we wish the educational universities all the best on their way to the future and in their further development. I have only added to Mr Brosz's request from the Greens: On the topic of kindergarten pedagogy and kindergarten visit, the German Institute for Economic Research has shown the same result. We will take a close look at the request made by Mr Brosz with a request for a name-name vote. It is surprising, however, that when applying for the SPÖ-Steiermark, namely for free kindergarten visit, the greens did not agree at all. [[Abg. Neugebauer: The ÖVP!]] – Yes, the ÖVP proposal that the Greens did not support. [[Calls to the Greens.]] – Will be exciting how you justify it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13925	Next item is the report by Mrs Zwerschitz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e13947	High house! Minister! Madam President. I don't want to put you on torture for too long. If a Landtag application by a Landtag Party states that the federal government should be obliged by one day to pay 50 percent of the kindergarten places, while 50 percent take over the country, then this is a request that is impracticable. It is not the case that the Landtag can be located via federal funds. This should already be known by a country day party such as the ÖVP in Styria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this very reason and for a few other things that were very strange in this proposal – I would say – the FPÖ and the Greens in the Styria voted against. I also know that propaganda is heading in the direction that the Greens would be against it, although I hope that you too know that there has been the free kindergarten year in Styria since this time. On the subject, the Greens were against it. They have, of course, voted in favour of the proposal, because it makes sense. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Were they opposed or were they not against it?]] – We can provide funds from the federal government so that the countries can create kindergartens, but the country cannot force the federal government to pay 50 percent. - I'm sorry. But now, on the real issue of my speech, namely to the educational universities. If Mrs Brinek said that it took a long time, because it should also change the education philosophy, then I would say: It has taken a long time, only the training philosophy has not changed so much. To reassess these signs is something that we highly criticize. That is precisely why we cannot vote in favour of this law, because it does not take steps in the new educational direction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There will continue to be no university accountability for all the diplomas that teachers have made. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true at all! That's wrong!]] There will continue to be no joint training of all pedagogical professions – as the Bologna Declaration calls for – and specialization in the second part of the training. There is still no education towards an overall school. The entire school, the model, is a recognized model, in this direction we should work. The prerequisites for this long-term process, because from today to tomorrow it will not go, mean: We need to change the training accordingly. It is not in any way guaranteed from the law of the service or from the training that an overall school model can work at all. They must not be surprised if the teachers are very unsure of both gymnasiums and primary schools, because we do not offer them the opportunity to develop in this direction as well. There is still no support for women in teaching staff. There is no equal treatment as a study and research content. We still do not have the independent evaluation possibility. The member of the government shall, by means of a regulation, lay down principles for the design of the study plans, i.e. changes in the study plans depending on the members of the government. This cannot, however, be a good basis for allowing us to develop a university of education within their framework, let them work in a good direction and guarantee teacher training. The individual promotion is missing. We still have the principle of training for selection and not integration. While the principle already exists in many European countries: We take all children as far as we can, we try to promote them, we try to give them as much as possible for their further life course!, is still largely trained for selection in Austria. The novelle for this law would have had the opportunity to change something about it. What has been changed is marginal. I'm sorry, I'm gonna stick with it. It's just a sign exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14009	Mrs Haubner is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14030	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! This government template was and is necessary because educational academies have been converted into educational universities. I think that this transformation – you have gone ahead with a lot of discussions in the last government too – was certainly a very important and decisive step towards even more professionalization of the teaching profession and especially towards the new teacher image. This professional group must continue to be very active in the future. be committed and above all high quality in training and transfer. Therefore, in addition to the withdrawal of the two-thirds majority in school laws during the last legislative period, this was a very important step for a common teacher training; of course, only in compulsory school now. I think that the other trainings are not involved, is certainly a beauty mistake that you can't pass over. We have already said on the part of the BZÖ and say again today that it must come in the medium term in such a way that all teachers have the same training and must be trained equally, including those educators who work in the preschool field, speaking in the kindergarten area. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I think it is important to let work now, to look at this and, as has been said, to achieve this objective in the medium term. We will give our consent to this matter on the part of the BZÖ, because it is about creating legal certainty in civil service law. There is above all an important social and family-political aspect from my point of view, namely that in the future there should also be an exemption for children with disabilities and stepchildren of the partners. I think that's positive. I like that. In the teaching committee, we also discussed a general debate on safety in schools. There was a very sad current occasion at a folk school here in Vienna, where abuses have occurred to a six-year-old child. At the time, we in the Committee all became aware that the protection of our children is very priority and important and that it is not easy to do so and to say: Schools are public buildings, you can't do anything. That is why we demand from the BZÖ – and I would like to confirm this here again – in the future, especially in the compulsory school sector, in the public schools, effective access controls at the entrance so that non-school people cannot enter the buildings uncontrollably. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But it must also be, and this is very important for us to give a strong awareness of this problem to future teachers in training. It is therefore for us to imagine that in the future this must also be a focus in the curriculums of the educational universities so that teachers can also be given the appropriate instrument and knowledge for the added safety and for the protection of our children. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14124	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14189	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14213	Madam President! High house! I would like to comment briefly on the points raised and raised by you, ladies and gentlemen. The Law on Teachers, as it is now present, is not the great law for the further development of the educational universities, but – the term has also fallen – is a changeover law, which is primarily about the fact that the educational universities can start well now. It thus contains a number of conceptual adaptations. In one point, however, it is essential, and it concerns at least 420 people who work with us, in concrete terms the foreign language assistants. This innovation now makes it quite clear that the legal basis for service and remuneration is laid down. With regard to the specific question raised by you, Mr Brosz, with regard to social security matters: Until now, the General Social Insurance Act has been applied here, i.e. from the local health insurance fund, accident insurance to pension insurance, and by the legal regulation now the legal conditions for public servants are applied and thus BVA. We're going to be natural. Your questions regarding service providers' contribution are answered in writing in detail, but I just wanted to say this ad hocly now. I fully share your statements in the field of early childhood education and the need to transform the kindergarten into an educational garden. It is also enshrined in the government programme that we are working on an education plan for kindergarten. The competence situation has already been pointed out, there are different competences, the federal government or the other local authorities, but here we will also see individual plans as they are. For example, are present in Vienna, use accordingly and work in the nationwide plan. As far as the general remarks on the field of educational higher education are concerned – and I refer to Members of the Netherlands, to honourable Members Graf, to Mrs Haubner – I also see prospects in a joint university education for all those working in the teaching profession as being very conscious of this as a medium and long-term objective. I, like Mr Niederweiser, was very pleased with the comments made by Minister Hahn on this subject, at least once with regard to joint training in the middle level. We have agreed to start inter-ministerial talks in this direction. Finally, perhaps a word on “security”. This is where, if I may put it this way, it is also about a comprehensive awareness-raising not only of teachers but also of the school partner. In any event, I will also put this issue on the agenda at the next Presidential Conference of the Councils of State Schools, after the compulsory schooling has been mentioned in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14261	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14286	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today – the Federal Minister has now carried out this in detail – we are making a necessary adjustment to the structure of the educational universities; decided during the last legislative period, decided against the SPÖ's votes at that time. We still have and still have other ideas as to how to develop teacher training in the coming years, even though now, of course, adaptations to the current system of educational universities. One point which the Federal Minister has once again highlighted, which I think is very important, even if you look towards Pisa winner Finland, is the joint university training of all teachers. At least the first step could have been to involve the infant pedagogues in these educational universities. I find it very painful that this area of infant education – Mrs. Federal Minister Schmied has also stressed it – is largely underestimated, namely the importance that infant pedagogues have had in supporting the development opportunities of children from very early on. I think that we are now taking first steps, but this is an area that we must take much more seriously in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as the Greens' request for free kindergartens is concerned, I would like to say from my wait that this is a future perspective that I do not in principle block. I see only the need for limited financial resources, as we simply have them, to set priorities and to take steps in part. From today's point of view, I see the particular need to expand the range of childcare facilities accordingly; to expand where we need them very urgently, namely, because there are few – that is, the area of the youngest children, the zero to the three-year-old – and also because it is particularly important in old age to support and promote the children. I am very glad that this Federal Government will provide funds from the Federal Government to provide incentives to give incentives to encourage funding for the extension of kindergartens. It is open how this will be divided in the countries. The SPÖ countries have already signalled uniform ideas and willingnesss here, unfortunately we are still waiting for the ideas of the countries governed by ÖVP leaders. We have heard this morning, an agreement has been reached in the area of financial compensation. I also hope that appropriate resources will be made available in the field of infant education. The second point, after the expansion of places for the youngest children, is from my point of view the extension of the pre-school offer. A first step is taken here by the Federal Government, namely that children who need special linguistic support receive support. I still see this as the first, quite good step – but as the first step. I would, of course, like to stress from a social democratic point of view that it cannot stay there, because the other children have also deserved appropriate support. There is a need for promotion other than the language itself. I would just like to refer to the increasing number of children who have legathenia problems, or to children who have other linguistic problems, not German problems, but who would need a little support from a logo. If you recognize this in good time in kindergarten, you can help these children very well. We should simply support talents and promote all children in the next few years, and there is, of course, an important basis for training infants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14337	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14358	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! With the establishment of the educational universities, which bring with them an academic level and also an internationally recognized status for all graduates, Mrs. Zwerschitz, very much honoured, a new era in teacher education begins. The importance of this innovation is also seen in the fact that there are twice as many people interested in training this year as in the previous year. Equally interesting is the extension of the teacher's law for foreign language assistance, because it once again proves an innovative international commitment. This new regulation means not only bringing in a mother tongue competence of foreign students, but also, above all, a concrete exchange of cultures to promote a global understanding. In practice, many colleagues have sent me very positive reports of experience, perhaps thinking that as a useful development for the future, those countries that send foreign language assistants should design a common list of requirements for the candidates. By amending the Federal Law on the Teaching Practice, another successful aspect of teacher training in Austria is on today's agenda, namely the best proven teaching internship for graduates. of the Department of Education. The hospitalization and the specialist teacher provided are a guarantee of basic educational values and an optimal preparation for the expected day-to-day school. This creates a win-win situation: The new teachers acquire additional social competence, strive for team ability and bring in new ideas and impulses, coming directly from the universities. What's very important: The care teachers experience recognition of their work by young colleagues and thus benefit from their suggestions and their enthusiasm. It must therefore be praised by all the teachers involved. They must be thanked for the fact that they create, maintain and convey education with great personal commitment. Ladies and gentlemen, it is good to know that education is subject to a constant quality test to support one of the most important pillars of our society in the future. Only a knowing people can protect themselves and its democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14404	The next speaker was Mr Elmar Mayer. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14428	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is interesting to have studied at the PÄDAK 30 years ago and now have children, one of whom in turn has graduated from the Educational Academy and the other from the teacher's education at the university. One sees – and this too should be positive – that both institutions have their great advantages. One sees this particularly when the graduates cross into practice, speak, teach at school, and in the joint discussion questions come such as: How do I teach that to the child? How do I do that? Or on the other side: How can I deal with these shortcomings? It is undisputed that the strengths and weaknesses of the two systems can actually be used together. On the one hand, we note that teaching and research and scientific staff, that the necessary infrastructure is available, on the other hand, there are the strengths in the educational, pedagogical and the schulpractical field. That is, the strength of one has been the weakness of the other at the same time, and this branchiness cannot be a model of the future, but an optimal joint training of all educators must be the goal. Let's take an example from medicine: Why should two physicians be trained for the same task, for one and the same operation at a medical academy or university and on the other hand at the university with completely different priorities? – It is almost contradictory and reluctant to carry out such a dual, two-track training for years. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased – it has already been said – that the Minister of Science has been the first – all the other political groups have long been in favour of a joint training of the educators – as an icebreaker for the great ÖVP Group, saying the “Vorarlberger Nachrichten” to the following – I may briefly quote, because this is very important to me: “I believe that we should train the primary school teachers and the AHS sub-level teachers at a uniform Bachelor level.” The same was said by Mr Brinek in committee. She said, literally: Now comes the next step against branchiness. – I think I really quoted your statement in committee, Mrs Brinek. – An important, right step! Even the new rector of the pedagogical universities – a Vorarlberger; not exactly a deeply colored social democrat – demands exactly the same thing: Our educational universities must strengthen us for a common teacher training! I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is high time that we finally take a step closer to this joint university education that we will give the next young generation of teachers the content they need for a school of diversity. We need a school that individually, differentiatedly and gift-orientedly demands the talents of our children, and we can do so through a joint training. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14473	The next speaker on the speaker list is Mr Neugebauer; again, 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14495	Madam President. My dear! Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Dear colleagues! Those who followed the media broadcasts early on today's parliamentary debates have been informed: There is nothing going on, there is nothing special to be expected in terms of content! Mrs. Zwerschitz, if in your speech you have the assessment of the start of the educational universities on 1st. Qualify October with the label ‘Schilder Exchange’, then support such an superficial reporting! I am very sorry because after this start of the educational universities there are several years of intensive preparatory work by the Ministry and the colleagues concerned, who have been seriously involved, and they do not deserve to be qualified for the evaluation of ‘student exchange’. Without a doubt you can also have other perspectives, but what is the asset of this new construction? – The integration between training and training in one place; the exchange of relevant further developments between universities; the good of universities with the good in the strong barrier between theory and practice that comes from the educational academies. We do not have any study plans or plans within the meaning of the universities at the educational universities, but there are timetables to be completed as at school, extraordinarily intensive. With regard to the high level of scientific input in university studies, I would like to inform Mr Graf that: Of course, it is necessary to work more closely with the methodology, with the didactics of teaching, which is again a special focus at the educational universities. On the issue of uniform training, I should like to point out the following: Once, after the war, there was the old principle: Pedagogues for small children are less trained and pay less, the higher up, the better they are trained and paid. – With this we have the end of the six- At the beginning of the 1970s, he was cleaned up. Equivalent compulsory school teacher training should not be held back in all the considerations on level training. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, on the Greens' request for a compulsory kindergarten visit from the third to the sixth year of life. . I am glad that this debate is being held intensively, even from different positions, but I would draw attention to the fact that from our socio-political philosophy the commitment is coming to an end. If you do so as in Lower Austria, i.e. free access for a kindergarten year with high educational quality, this will also be accepted by 95 percent of the population. I think that's the right way.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14543	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the draft law and the title and receipt in 137 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is the majority, and with it this draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues on free kindergartens. The vote has been taken on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials, the Verification of Credentials, As this request was made by 20 Members, the vote must also be taken. That's why I'm doing this. The votes to be used are in the House of Deputies and bear the name of the Deputies as well as the name "Yes" – these are the grey ballots – or "No" – which are the pink ones. Only those official votes can be used for the vote. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Members are called upon to put the vote in the votes cast. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution to vote in favour of the 'No' vote. I now ask the author, Mr Wimmer, to begin the call for name.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14626	That concludes the vote. The members of the House responsible for this task will now make the number of votes under the supervision of the scribes. The meeting will be suspended for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14667	I will resume the interrupted sitting and announce the outcome of the vote. Members cast: 164; of which ‘Yes’ votes: 45, ‘No’ votes: 119. This amendment is therefore rejected. According to § 66 para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure, the names of the Members shall be included in the Stenographic Protocol, indicating their voting behaviour. Members voted in ‘Yes’: Aspock; Belakovich-Jenewein, Bösch, Brosz, Bucher; Darmann, Dolinschek; Fichtenbauer; Glavischnig-Piesczek, Graezeit, Graf; Haidlmayr, Haubner Ursula, Hauser, Hofer, Hradecsni; Kickl, Klement, Kogler, Kurzmann; Light-ignition reciprocating device; Mandak, Mayerhofer, Moser; Neubauer Werner; Oils; Pillow, Pirklhuber; Rosary, Rossmann; Sburny, Sound, Treasure, Scheibner, Steinhauser, Strache; themesl; Van der Bellen, Vilimsky; Weinzinger Brigid, Westenthaler; Zach, Zinger, Zinggl, Dwarf. Members voted with ‘No’: Ablinger, Amon, Aubauer, Auer Jacob, Auer Klaus Hubert; Bauer, Bayr, Mulder, Binder-Maier, Brinek; Cap, Csörgits; Dobnigg, Donabauer Karl, Donnerbauer Heribert, perforation; Eder Kurt, Eder Sebastian, Eder-Gitschthaler, Einem, Einwallner, Eisenschenk, Eßl; Faul, Fleckl, Franz, friend, Fuhrmann, Führer, Fürntrath; Gahr Hermann, Gaßner, Glaser, Grander, Grillitsch, Großruck; Hakl, Haubner Peter, Heinisch-Hosek, Heinzl, Höfinger, Hellererer, Hörl, Hornek, Huainigg, Hursky; Ikrath; Jarolim; Kainz, Kaipel, Kapeller, Karl, Keck, Kirchgatterer, Köfer, Königsberger-Ludwig, Koßl, Krist, Kukacka, Kuntzl, Kuzdas; Lapp, Lentic, Lohfeyer; Maier Ferdinand, Maier Johann, Mayer Elmar, Mikesch, Missethon, Mitterlehner, Morak, Muchitsch, Murauer, Muttonen; Neugebauer Fritz, Niederwieser; Oberhauser, Obernosterer; Pack, Parnigoni, Pendl, Pepper, Prehauser, Prammer, Praßl, Prince; Rada Robert, Rädler Johann, Rasinger, Reheis, Riener Barbara, Zeit Sylvia, Rudas; Schasching, Schelling, Schidner Andreas, Schittenhelm, Schönpass, Schopf, Schultes, Sieber Norbert, Sonnberger, Spindelberger Erwin, Spindelegger Michael, Stadlbauer, Stadler Astrid, Stauber, Steibl Ridi, Steier, Steindl Konrad, Stummvoll; Tamandl, Trunk; Wicker, Wittmann, Weavinger, Worm; Zweytick.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14849	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues, on the strengthening of the safety awareness of compulsory education as a priority in the context of training and further measures to increase the safety of school children. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[11:33:27]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 118/A(E) by Dr Andrea Eder-Gitschthaler, Beate Schasching, colleagues on the "Unfortunate health examination for students" (208 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Education on amendment 159/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Peter Haubner, colleagues on ‘Schools & Teachers: Initiatives against doping in sport’ (209 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14915	We shall therefore proceed to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate will be held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Schasching is speaking with a three-minute voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14943	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! I am very pleased that the other political groups here in the House have adopted these requests – and I would like to thank you for the fact that the Healthy School project, which has now been launched, is intended to have a comprehensive view of the health of our students. Therefore, it is only desirable that all school-based children in Austria should be included in health examinations, i.e. those who are trained in domestic education. We would certainly like to agree, and I thank you for the fact that this will happen. However, I would like to take particular care of the second request, which is related to the anti-doping law, which we agreed here in the House a few weeks ago: In addition, there is a joint request from the SPÖ and ÖVP political groups to respond to it in particular in the field of school, and in particular to equip teachers with materials to address this issue of antidoping and dangers of doping, especially in sports-focus schools to students. Doping, ladies and gentlemen, is a fraud of itself, of his own team, of the other contestants as well as of organizers, sponsors and the audience. The Doping ban is one of the decisive rules in sport. Anyone who consciously or unconsciously disregards these rules acts against fair play and against ethics in sport. – This is what the request says, and I think that is an important principle that we should all join and be able to do, and it is also essential that our students already have contact with a healthy lifestyle in training. It is also my concern, however, to thank the Federal Minister. ==References====External links== In September, a first measure was adopted and is also avant to give the educational universities a mandate to take up this topic of teaching. But also more and more hobby sportsmen, the whole field sport is affected by the antidoping problem, yes, I mean, even more affected, because top sportsmen are subject to doping controls and largely know about the danger they face. Breitensportlers, on the other hand, often do not know this and are affected by the internet distribution or also by offers in fitness studios to take substances of which they have no idea what they can do for a damage. That is why it is particularly important for me that this good measure be extended to all schools, because a healthy school, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, should offer children daily opportunities to move. A healthy school is intended to stimulate children to have sports become companions in their lives, and therefore offer a sport lesson where all sports occur, where enthusiasm is awakened to move throughout life as part of a healthy lifestyle. And a healthy school should also, as far as possible, cooperate with many sports clubs that can offer it. And a healthy school should show the dangers of doping-related substances in time to warn about them. We put our hopes in you, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you continue to support this path so actively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e14991	Mrs Eder-Gitschthaler is speaking as the next speaker. She's done a speaking time of 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15012	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear visitors! High house! At the beginning of this year, the tragic case of three careless girls in Upper Austria has once again led us dramatically to see how necessary and important the awareness of all is for the child's well-being. Just because one cannot rely on the attention and civil courage of the environment a hundred percent and a case like Linz can never be repeated again, we have already introduced the present motion for a resolution in January of this year, together with the SPÖ colleagues, in which we have drawn attention to a gap in the school law. [[Abg. New builder: That wasn't Linz!]] In principle, there is no compulsory schooling in Austria, but since Maria Theresia, since 1774, a teaching requirement. Therefore, unlike in the Federal Republic of Germany, there is no obligation to give children in public or private schools. In Austria, children may also be notified for domestic education by the members of the education system under certain conditions. This possibility is currently taking up about 0.5 percent of the parents in Austria. In figures, for example, for Salzburg – there I have raised it – are currently 40, in Upper Austria about 70 and in the Styria even 400. It's regionally different. In itself, this practice is not a problem, because these children are required to carry out external tests at regular intervals. Do not take into account – and therefore, in our opinion, completely disregard – their well-being and their health under the current school law, because these children do not currently have to undergo regular medical examination. We see the examination by the school doctor as a service offer from which no one should be excluded. All children have the right to be informed about diseases, information about health promotion measures and to be stopped at any change in behaviour. We are primarily concerned with education and prevention. Why should we make a difference between those children who go to school and those who are taught at home, that is, home? In addition, the educational examination also has the important purpose of discovering conspicuousness. We simply have to do everything in our power to stop physical, sexual and mental violence against children and their neglect and neglect and to take targeted precautions. Children are often defenseless and therefore especially dependent on our help and care. Prevention is therefore the key word. I am very pleased that our Salzburg request has so quickly found the way through the teaching committee to the plenary. Here in the High House, we have already created the appropriate framework conditions for the benefit of our children and young people in recent months through the corresponding revision of the Youth Welfare Act. I would like to focus briefly on a second aspect. It has so far been the case that this annual school examination was carried out by the pupils themselves. Now we want to ensure that this responsibility is transferred to the schools and thus to the competent school doctor/to the school doctor with all the resulting consequences. I am thinking, for example, of the targeted improvement of the education system. In conclusion, Mrs Minister, I would like to ask you to have these laws prepared as quickly as possible, and thank you now on behalf of our children. Children are our most valuable asset, and we must do everything we can to protect them as best we can! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15055	Mr Neubauer spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15079	Madam President. Dear Mrs Colleague, you have said in your statement that this case of neglected children deals with a case of Linz. I am correcting this as follows: It's not a case of Linz. The social model city of Linz has not had any such cases in any form in recent years. Rather, it is a case of the municipality of Gramastetten in Upper Austria. Therefore, the county's main team is the Urfahr- Umgebung.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15110	The next speaker was Mrs Zwerschitz. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15131	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! Values listeners! Right at the beginning, I would like to say that I am very grateful for this request – very grateful because it closes a gap that was urgently to be closed. There are not many children who have been registered for home schooling. It is, however, the school doctor's examination that shows a lot, which obviously does not work completely in our society. In the case of series studies in the schools are on average so that about a quarter of the children are referred to other doctors. Most of them are dentists, some are ENT doctors, orthopaedics or ophthalmologists. That is, with a series of examinations, with an examination of children, we can contribute significantly to better health conditions for children and young people. If you look at the study published by the OECD, you can see that Austria has a great need to catch up in this area anyway. The Austrian children and young people are 19 years old. The Office of 25 OECD States with regard to health care. That's really not a good hanging sign. In this context: In schools, there must certainly be much more to be done with regard to the health aspect. A school canteen that distributes fast food or any sticky lemonades will certainly not contribute to health. I very much hope that this aspect of health will continue to be considered in the future when it comes once again to some hours being reworked, that is, the hours of movement will be reduced in favor of some other hours. That shouldn't be in our sense. The same applies to non-binding exercises, i.e. all areas for which children can volunteer. It can not only be the private pleasure of parents to provide enough movement for children, but we have a great commitment here. Article 24 of the Convention on Children's Rights also calls for better health, more prevention, better education for children in this area. This is another reason why these series studies are very important for children who are not integrated into school life. However, what I want to join is a great hope that we will also close another big gap – and I think it is much bigger and much more problematic – which is the gap between mother-child-pass and school entry. At this time, since there is no kindergarten requirement in Austria, there are also a lot of cases happening. Even at this time, children may experience health difficulties, cases of abuse may occur, and cases of custody may occur. Until now, there is no response for the authorities to request that the children be examined. Here too, the legislator will have to consider something. I therefore very much hope that we will also take a step in this direction, and I am very grateful for the introduction of this law, which I consider to be much more important because it will help to find neglected children or victims of abuse than the new laws we have decided at one of the last meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15182	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. Voluntary time limit: Six minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15204	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Before responding to the draft legislation currently under discussion, I would like to note and criticise the suspension practice of various meaningful applications in the teaching committee. I really consider this practice to be absolutely pointless, but it is quite common for the Tyrolean state policy as a former countryman, because initiatives in the country of Tyrol, too, In principle, opposition was suspended. I really do not think that this practice is being continued here in the House of Lords, including a party that criticised my knowledge especially in the last legislative period with other parties. The SPÖ goes exactly back to this reluctance to suspend. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] For example, I would have liked to talk in the teaching committee about the harmonisation of school autonomous days and I would have liked to have a debate on it here in the House today. It is really not to be seen that if parents have two, three children in different schools, even in the same federal state, they are unable to consume holiday days together because the school is self-employed in its autonomy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] I don't think this makes sense either as a teacher. A decision in this direction would have been very useful and useful even today. But what did you do? . One has simply suspended this request again. So I would ask you, in principle, to consult, discuss and make a decision here in Parliament, even if they come from the opposition. - On the one hand. As far as current applications for complete health care, doping in sport, are concerned, you know that we will, of course, agree with both initiatives. Only we are not happy with the planned measures alone. My predecessor says that, for example, doping in sports can be improved or prevented from presenting more teaching materials. That alone will be too little. I think it makes sense and important to use the school doctors in this area and, above all, to try to use models. As a teacher I also know that students often always say: You should not drink!, you should not smoke!, perhaps do exactly the opposite. It is therefore important that we, on the one hand, put health care in the direction of school and school doctor – on the one hand – but the school doctor should not only carry out the health examination, he should also be advisory. That's important. He has four-eye conversations with the students, can deal very intensively with their problems and could also discuss the problem of drinking, the problem of smoking personally with the students – which is usually much more useful and useful, because there is much more background information, much more personal information. The same applies to doping. Of course, one will also address this in gymnastics. If you invite role models, stars to school, to let them talk about sports careers and discuss them, then it is – I think – very useful, because students are taking up a lot of examples and putting their behavior in the direction of role models. I am sure that this very important subject will be dealt with only with teaching materials. Madam Minister, since I have the opportunity to talk to you today because you are here, I would also like to address another point that is very important to me as a teacher and also as a parent. So after the election age has been reduced to 16 years, I am more aware that party politics is being pursued in school, that one is trying to influence 16-year-old party politics. You only recently visited and opened an HTL in Innsbruck. They have been accompanied by five socialist mandates, as read in the "Tyrol daily" today. Mrs. Minister, your function – you know that very well – is a state function. You are active in your role as Minister for All – and not a Party politician. I'm trying to keep the schools free from party politics! [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] It can't be that now more and more party-political events are held in schools. Please, keep a mental hygiene here, too, because our students deserve to listen to a wide range of different party political opinions! If the school is politicized, give They have the opportunity to express their views to all parties! Let me make discussions with the students on different topics, but let's invite all parties to do so! Students have the right to hear the views of all parties on a particular topic. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Univ.-Prof. Filzmaier notes today in the "Tyroler Zeitung" that the students are not politically suspicious, but may be party-politically stunned. I'll give it to him. Today, in this interview, Landesrat Koler notes that he too fears that politics will enter the school and that one will have to be careful. So I think I have addressed a subject here that is very important because students are eligible for election, we know. Please, let's not do a party policy in schools! Let us hold on to this fairness and give each party the same opportunity to present their democratic position in school in the course of discussion events to students! Nor can it be that before the entrance of a school, for example, a candidate party applies an election poster. This too is a thing I strongly condemn. I ask you to become truly initiative in the sense of mental hygiene, and try – and I also know that you can – to move a lot in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15309	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15330	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! The amendments to the vote are, as my previous speakers have said, occasions: on the one hand, the occasion of the three neglected girls in Upper Austria, on the other hand, doping cases in sport, which are on the agenda over and over again. These two applications, of course, also provide the opportunity to work more strongly in the future in the sense of prevention and comprehensive information in schools and, above all, to raise awareness. I think this must be done not only by teachers, but also by school partners such as school doctors and school doctors. In this context, it is also important to strengthen personal responsibility early enough – the personal responsibility of children for a healthy lifestyle, for the responsibility for their bodies – and also to transfer it to their parents. Ladies and gentlemen! 2004 was the European Year of Education through Sport. Many measures have already been started, among other things, with various teaching materials. I think that this alone is, of course, too little, but it is an important building block in an overall concept. Several projects were launched in 2004 under the then State Secretary Schweitzer, such as “Fit for Austria”. I think one should also be in These projects continue to be linked to these projects and see how far these projects can be more integrated in schools in the future. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Overall, you can never start health care early enough, as I mean, and you have to start especially where children and young people spend a large part of their time, so where they have a very important environment of life. That's finally the school. We all know that the only cost-avoiding strategy in the context of a sustainable health policy is prevention. Therefore, this bill – 1 € precautions saves 3,2 € repair medicine – is something we should always keep in mind. Any investment in projects of this kind, such as the one in place in the form of money, but also in the form of ideas, is therefore a good investment in the future. On the part of the BZÖ, we will, of course, give our approval to these two requests, because they are a necessary supplement in the context of healthy lifestyle education in schools. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15379	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Muttons. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15400	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's request to improve the medical examinations is an important building block towards more prevention and also health promotion in schools. The reference to the Healthy School initiative, initiated and launched by the Minister of Health in cooperation with the Minister of Health, has already fallen. This important project has the following objective: the goal of a healthier society through the development and implementation of a national strategy for health promotion at Austrian schools. This should not be short-term action, but it should be sustainable. In concrete terms, it is about programs specifically in areas such as nutrition, exercise or also dealing with alcohol and nicotine. Ladies and gentlemen, you all know that a lot of adult diseases are the result of behavioral patterns and lifestyles that have been developed in childhood and youth. Especially in the field of nutrition, awareness-raising measures are urgently needed. For example, a recent study has shown that 20.2 percent of boys and 17.7 percent of girls in Austria are overweight. But also on the other side there are negative messages. For example, 7.2 percent of boys and 8.7 percent of girls are underweight. This really requires creating a awareness of the problem both in the parents' home and in school and non-school education. The 2,500 school doctors in Austria have a very important role to play in the health prevention activities. They are not only contact points, but also multipliers. However, it would be urgently necessary to improve the conditions under which the school doctors work. The division of competences between several ministries and between the federal government and countries is certainly not targeted. In any case, the Minister of Health is asked to take action. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15439	The next speaker is Mr Haubner. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15461	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr. Minister! In recent years, the sport has always been dominated by great achievements, but unfortunately the doping “spent” has also been constantly pudding around, throughout all sports, across all nations. And as my colleague Schasching has already said: Doping is a fraud in itself, but of course also to its competitors and competitors and to the public. It simply must not be possible for athletes to resort to such illicit means, because they risk themselves and discredit the whole sport. The athletes are a model for our children and for our young people, both in the positive and in the negative sense. If doping does school, we can forget the positive work of young people in our sports clubs. If the Baptizer is more successful than the honest sportsman, then “Good night! ” That's why we have to make every effort not to dope at all. We need to inform and inform accordingly. This joint proposal is only another element in the fight against doping. Mr Maier and I have also worked very intensively on this matter in the Antidoping Act and we strive to make this request especially for our students. A study in Germany shows that the under-14-year-olds are already consciously using resources that allow their biceps to grow artificially, and take exhausts, which they briefly increase in their performance. They hardly know the risks and the consequences, because especially in the growing phase, the intake of substances such as clenbuterol, natrolon or growth hormones is particularly dangerous. So the following applies: Inform and sanction. We have already set the corresponding impulses here, because with the new antidoping law and with the newly created NADA, which will take over its task next year, we have greatly intensified the fight against doping. On the one hand, we are, of course, relying on sanctions and on information on the other. Above all, the information in schools is especially important to us. We must start with our youth, and here not only schools are required, but also sports associations. The sports union of Austria therefore also supports the large international symposium “Doping – Enlightenment and Measures of Prevention” on 16 and 17. October near Salzburg, where the international comparison of schools in the performance sport of this topic is accepted. We need to bring the information to the schools. Doping is certainly a subject that the students are interested in, and they also want to deal with this topic. It is up to us to create the necessary conditions so that teachers and trainers can also pass on the best possible information to the students. We must not give the power of doping a chance. Here all those responsible for sport and education are required. The many athletes, trainers, who honestly perform their services or contribute to the performance of the sport, are the models we need for our youth. They are also particularly grateful for their use and for their performance. We have a great heart for sport and especially for our youth. That is why we will do everything we can to ensure that we can be successful tomorrow.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15509	As the next speaker, Mr Brosz is speaking with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15530	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The request for doping in sport is supported by us. Mr Maier, in particular, has a long tradition here in the house and is certainly a pioneer in the fight against doping. I therefore think it is important to anchor it more closely in schools, because in many cases it would be a mistake to believe that this is about top-level sports. Where, from my point of view, most Schindluder is driven, where there is the most danger, this is the grey area of fitness studios, where young people start training and take on resources that are partly harmful to health, even where in the past there has even been repeated deaths. The information should therefore also be given priority in this area. That is why we will support this request. I just wanted to say on this occasion that one could think about the delay practice in the teaching committee once again. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: I already promised!]] However, I say it again from me, because apparently initiatives that come from the government and are appreciated positively will find their way into plenary relatively quickly. It's not all stupid what the opposition is requesting, I suppose. In this respect, one could once jump over his shadow and also decide on what comes from the opposition once as an invitation, as a wish to the minister in the plenary; it would probably hurt no one. But I am hopeful that Mr Niederweiser is trying to give these efforts a turnwind.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15578	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzmann. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Ladies and gentlemen, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15600	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The complete health examination for students is an important social policy concern. The Freedom Party has agreed to this request in the Teaching Committee, and it is therefore logical that we also support this initiative in its plenary session. Youth is our future. This, ladies and gentlemen, is heard at every Sunday speech. If you take this seriously, you have to start with health care as early as possible, as has already been noted. And a previous speaker has already pointed out: According to the mother-child-pass examinations, it would also be important to examine the health of our children in kindergartens and then continue to follow through the folk schools. In this context, I am incomprehensible that a good instrument, namely the report on the health status of the school youth, which was last published in 1993/94, has not been updated in recent years. I think that's important, because it's not about it. a statistical exercise, as some might believe, but it is – and this will be clear when reading these reports more precisely – also to read developments over many years. Prevention is crucial, we all know, because prevention is better than healing as the old saying is. Ladies and gentlemen, that the state of health of young people – in this case of the male youth – has not improved, we repeatedly recognise the reports of the standing commissions, how many men are capable or unsuitable when they come to the federal army. The number of unfit for work in 2006 was 13.4 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! This means that of 47 000 persons in charge of employment, 6 300 were unsuitable. This should give us thought, because at the top of the diseases lie with at least 25 percent of mental diseases. The second most common reason was 11 percent with joint or musculature malformations, and 10 percent who could not take up the service with the federal army suffered from hearing damage. – That should also give us some thought, ladies and gentlemen, because this is due to the volume in the discotheques, but also to music events. Furthermore, impotence due to nervous system disorders, due to vision weakness, circulatory problems and lung diseases follow. So we really have every reason to advance prevention as early as possible and to maintain the health status of our young people. Let me just say a few words on the question of doping, on the doping problem. The Freedom Party, like all other parties in this House – and this is a cross-party consensus – also stands for doping controls. The fight against doping is important for the health of our athletes, but it is also important because it is ultimately about the reputation of our country as a sports nation in Europe and the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15655	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Madam Member, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15676	High house! The health of our children must now be at the centre of everyday school as well as the communication of facts and knowledge. The past has shown that in Austria, although we have not believed it for a long time, there are still cases where children do not receive the necessary care and care. That is why I am very glad that we already closed the existing gaps in the Youth Welfare Act in June in the National Council and adapted it accordingly. I think it is also important in this context that there is a complete health examination for students in all Austria is giving, for cases of custody, mental and physical violence can be revealed in particular cases of school-based examinations. I ask the Federal Minister to proceed relatively quickly here and to submit to the National Council a legislative amendment which also ensures that all children are examined in school, including those who are exempt from the presence in school. It is also to be called upon to the schools to ensure that once a year, a school examination is actually carried out. Another very sensitive issue in the health field is certainly the initiative against doping in sport. It is clear to all of us that doping is in fact nothing other than to pretend services. In fact, it is nothing but a fraud on itself. And that doping can have devastating health consequences is now also clear to us. I think the goal must be to make young people enjoy sports, and this is possible in schools. In schools, however, it is also necessary to draw attention to the dangers of doping. That is why I believe that this must be defined as an educational objective. However, teachers must also be provided with adequate teaching material. I think that the problem of doping should also be strengthened in the education and training of teachers. We also need to pay particular attention to the health of our children in the framework of the two measures under discussion, and I believe that both initiatives should at least be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15722	Next item is the report by Mr Schelling. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15743	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Both applications to be dealt with here are of particular importance and, as already mentioned, are closely related. However, I would particularly like to address the request for the initiative against doping in sport. Recently there was a news in Lower Austria in a large daily newspaper: A 22-year-old family father died suddenly. Confirmed cause: Taking anabolics and drug abuse in a fitness center. The amendment of the Federal Sports Promotion Act has made rules in the field of top-level sports, which take effect in the context of the fight against doping. The Antidoping Act supports these antidoping measures. Now, however, today's proposal, which I think is more than legitimate, provides for the essential elements to be applied to all sports drivers. Doping, whether in professional or hobby sports, is and remains fraud and endangers health massively. It must therefore be a declared educational goal – because, for example, the use of practically freely accessible anabolics or performance-enhancing drugs, stimulants or anesthetics is often not recognized or evaluated as a doping at all – to achieve the following: First of all: intensive education of young people, teachers and caretakers, Second: Consciousness for hazards, identification and fight against consequences, Third: providing assistance to return to clean sports, fourth: assistance in early detection of doping and drug abuse, Fifth, Promoting Ethics and Fairness and sixth involvement of parents in the sense of alertness, information, information, awareness of responsibility and early recognition. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Doping can have a variety of motives – from money in the field of professional sports to social recognition, from strengthening the I-feel to group-dynamic aspects, from power pressure to the happiness of a victory noise, or even combinations from it. Because of this multi-layered motivation, it is important to address, in addition to the athletes themselves, the trustees of the people directly to young people who can best recognize the current situation. This objective is to be achieved through concrete training in the area of trainers and teachers, through the provision of teaching and information material, and through the continuous training and further training of those responsible trustees: No to doping in hobby, broadband and top-notch sports! As already mentioned: It is a first step – more have to follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15810	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15832	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As a sports officer, I am of course very pleased today that we are dealing with this proposal here in the House, because the fight against doping must certainly be conducted at all levels. It is nice to see that we are now also taking the schools, the teachers, as allies in the fight against doping, into the boat in order to be able to provide really extensive and wide information here. Especially in schools, interest in sports is aroused, but of course not only for sports, but it is also possible to really train, promote and support top athletes there. Our talents are certainly very careful towards the top sports, but also the wide-ranging sport of course finds its rainfall, and functionalists come out of these schools. Some schools that we operate in Lower Austria and which I would like to lead here have already achieved very great sporting successes with their athletes: These are the "Michaela Dorfmeister Ski Hauptschule" and also the training center Waidhofen on the Ybbs with the graduate Hannes Drinkl. Above all, the trainers also do excellent work in the training against the doping. But of course, it is very, very important that this broad knowledge of doping is also carried out in the wide-ranging sport and, of course, also in the fitness centers. Especially there it is important to inform. This has to be lived there every day, because many hobby sportsmen often have no idea what it means to doping. Therefore, I am very pleased that we are now providing teaching material for the teachers so that they can pass on their knowledge to the students through their education and training. We are therefore making an important contribution to broadband as well as to top-level sports.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15869	Now Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied has spoken. – Mrs Federal Minister, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15892	Madam President. High house! I can say at the beginning that I am pleased with both the proposals for initiative because they support very important measures, which my place has already begun, or also introduce new ideas here. Very briefly on the subject of health research, which has already been addressed by Mrs Muttonen, Mrs Muttonen: I would just like to point out that the field of health care is related to the Ministry of Health. Thus, there is a need for very close cooperation with the Ministry of Health, which is already in place, namely in the “Healthy School” project. If we see school more as a habitat, which is necessary from my point of view, this requires the cooperation of the local authorities federal, state and local authorities, but it also requires very strong cooperation within the government, because I cannot implement initiatives such as environmental awareness in schools alone; here I work very closely with Minister Pröll. When it comes to interesting children and young people in the field of research, my cooperation partner is Minister Hahn. And I can assure you that I am addressing these cooperations entirely, very intensively, purposefully and above all with the attitude to pursue a fact-based policy. The second area: Initiative against doping. . Mrs Schasching has already referred to the adoption of my department, and I would also like to stress the importance of teacher training, especially teacher training. Here again, too, is an essential point of departure, including through the educational universities. Mr Hauser may only briefly address the information on ‘School autonomous days’. In this respect, there is currently a corresponding law, a novel in review. We will therefore be discussing this very soon. As far as political education, democracy development is concerned, I am fully aware of the sensitivity of the subject, including school visits. We are now working on a package of measures, specifically addressed by political education. On the one hand, we have to set up initiatives in this respect on the part of the section, since, of course, with the reduction of the electoral age, we also want to make it different in time, but also in terms of content, because I am not only concerned with imparting institutional knowledge but also encouraging participation if I can formulate it in this way. And I will also present you with a package of measures by the end of the year. This is also an initiative, because it is also the university sector, the universities I am developing and implementing together with Minister Hahn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e15939	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote separately on each of the Committee's proposals. We shall first proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 208 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 35.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 209 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 36.) [[12:21:52]] 4. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 193/A(E) by Mrs Ddr. Erwin Niederwieser, Dr. Franz-Joseph Huainigg, colleagues on the extension of the integration of young people with special educational needs after 8. School level (210 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16011	We reach the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I therefore give the floor to the first speaker, Mr Ddr. Decliner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16038	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! If we consider the important issues discussed in the field of school policy, which is really important for school: We are talking about quality assurance, the reduction of the number of school students, all day schools, new middle school and so on. But if you take it exactly, then these few lines that we have to decide today are more important than everyone else. It is about dealing with the weakest in the Austrian schools, with some of them. There are also children with non-German mother tongue. I think a school system is as good as it manages to bring those children who are particularly difficult to carry on, including children with disabilities of a variety. In recent years, we have created the legal conditions to make the principle of inclusion a matter of course in primary school and subsequently also in secondary school, secondary school, integration. What the legislator has wanted here has not really been talking to all schools. It's not actually realized yet. So if we talk about the next step, after the 8. For example, in secondary schools, in polytechnic schools or wherever that is recommended, we must not forget that some work is still waiting for us in the eight years before, in the preschool and in the kindergarten. I am glad that we will now take this step and that, over the next few months, the Federal Minister will certainly present the legal basis for integration to the National Council. continuing schooling. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16072	Mr Huainigg has been mentioned as the next speaker. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16095	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! What is imaginable? – When I was supposed to come to school in 1975, it said: I can't! For children with disabilities, there is no regular schooling option. What is imaginable? – When I held readings in schools at the beginning of the nineties, discussed with teachers about school integration, it said: Body disabled children – no problem, but mentally disabled children, that is not possible, that is not feasible! In the meantime, a lot has changed. We look back on 15 years of school integration in the regular education system, and the integration of disabled children has also brought a new pedagogy into the school system, individual promotion, in which both the best child and the child who is not so good are promoted. Each child is encouraged and demanded according to his or her abilities. Today, if we have a request for further development of school integration after the 8th century. This is an important and consistent further step. We have already gained good experience in vocational schools in recent years, where integration already works very well. I am also pleased that this request, as in the Committee, is probably supported by all five parliamentary parties. But today we must also ask ourselves: What else can I imagine? And that's where the question arises: Is there also a teacher in the wheelchair, a deaf teacher or a blind teacher? A parliamentarian with a breathing machine? - That was a catch question. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: Bravo! Yes, it's imaginable!]] I think it is really a lot to imagine, and it should also be implemented. Unfortunately, however, there is now a regulation on the new educational universities, where access restrictions on physical fitness are again foreseen. I mean, that's discrimination. So far no one has been allowed to visit the pedak that is disabled – should not happen anymore. We have also deleted this restriction of access from all the legislative instruments in the course of the Equality Act. I am taking you, Mrs Federal Minister, for granted that you are pursuing another intention, but I would also like to ask you from this place to amend or withdraw this regulation. [[Congratulations on ÖVP and Greens.]] The professional life of people with disabilities and no disabilities brings something to both sides. I would like to make it clear to my example. For example, my parliamentary employee was once standing in an ÖBB train “Schmeier” when I was urgently forced to go to the toilet and was catheterized by the assistant. Or: When I fell asleep three weeks ago, she just continued the business. Or: When I was back there, but could not speak, it had to learn it again with the breathing cannula, there was no problem for her, because she could read my thoughts in the meantime. These challenges have grown both she and I. Today she probably hears this talk about the speaker box in her office – tomorrow she turns to the Chamber of Commerce after five years. I hope, Mr Mitterlehner, you know what gift you're getting. I would like to speak to Mrs Mag. Claudia Weiss – also deputy for all parliamentary staff who do very important work – thank you for their work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16144	Mr Brosz has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16165	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Sozialminister! Of course, this is a step in the right direction today, not a question. When I heard Mr Huainigg's speech, however, I have remembered the last years, namely the years since I was in Parliament since the end of 1999, and the many discussions we have held in committee and plenary. Once again, one can be happy, even in a cross-party way, about developments, namely in this case, that there is no longer any Minister of Education Gehrer who has really blocked the possibility of change in this area for years. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the Committee there were wild discussions on how people with special needs can be integrated in the field of education, how far integration can go, whether it should be possible in higher schools. I can still remember that the point always came: You want everyone to get the Matura that the Matura doesn't have a value anymore! We heard this over the years without seeing the meaning and appreciation of integration here. In this respect, I can share the view that this is really a development, where things have gone up and become possible. The one case that Mr Huainigg has addressed – unfortunately now he is outside – is the question of the restriction on access to apprenticeship training, which – historically already – comes from a case which the People's Procuratorate in 2001, I think, has taken up. We then made two or three requests, and it took four or five years for the first amendments to take place. There seems to be no more mentality now, there has been some change. This is very encouraging, and we have certainly not reached the end. A certain part of this blockade is still contained in the request, because I do not think that the question of how to integrate the higher schools is satisfactoryly solved. If you, Mrs Minister, have just explained on the question of secondary schools that school attempts simply have close limits, that is, 5 per cent Austria-wide, while at the same time pointing out that school attempts should now take place in the area of integration into secondary and higher schools, this means that this form of integration can not take place at all at more than 5 per cent of the schools. So, in other words, This would not be possible at 95 percent of schools. I know there are possibilities to deal with various applications, but in the end there are school attempts, which you have also rightly pointed out, always associated with the consent of the parents, the students, the school community committee, which can of course be extremely difficult, because if a youth has the desire to go to a particular school, but does not receive a majority, then there is no school attempt – simply expressed. One can of course say that, if the will is not there, it will also be difficult to work, but is a legal rule, I think,... – It is a democratic process to say: [[Abg. Amon:... democratic process!]] The disabled must not come to school!Unknown term type: "%s".? I would like to save myself this form of democracy in Austria, because there are also rights to be seen as minority rights, where the majority must ensure that minorities also have the opportunity to reach their rights. And that's exactly the problem we've got here. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] That's exactly the fear I have, that it can be called: Yes, but in a corresponding circle, within an adequate distance, there is no such possibility!, and thus it dies in practice – and that certainly cannot be the end of the process. So: Opening up on school tests is okay, only in practice will we have to observe very carefully whether it works or whether there are individual cases – and that is enough for that – where this integration cannot take place, because the institution simply refuses to do so. And if that is the case, I very much hope that Mr Huainigg and Mr Niederweiser will say that this is not enough, and the next step must be a legal anchorage. In this sense, we will agree today. It is a step in the right direction, it takes place in an important area the acquisition into a legal status, but it is certainly not the last step of this development. There must also be a legal anchorage, as is always the case in the secondary and higher schools, and there is a right to integration there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16214	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16235	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! We must ask ourselves the question: What does it mean to be disabled? – From the point of view of the elephant, the ant bear may be disabled because its mussel is so short. From the point of view of the bee, the wasp may be disabled because it has no reciprocating. From the point of view of the puddle, the dample may be disabled because it has so short legs. – Each of us here is a little different, each one of us is also a bit disabled; I more than most of you, but everyone is a little different. It is therefore a great step that we can decide on this request today. Dieter Broszhat said that one could go even further – that is right, but now also the opportunity to open up school attempts at higher schools, that is a good step, because whoever has to deal with disabled people, even with mentally disabled people, knows that these people often have very special skills and knowledge that they develop skills that we are denied. So far, there have been two options for the need for special education, namely the nine-year-old special school or a model that has been conducted in an integral way. And exactly this integrative model is the better model. ==References====External links== In addition to applying this model only in the context of school tests, it is now to be implemented across the board. In my home community there is a mentally disabled person who, as I estimate, will be a little over 60 years old, about 65 years old. I noticed that he is always sitting alone in front of the house of his family – and it speaks never anyone with him. I think that if he had already had these options of integrative teaching at the time, he would now have his identical school friends who would talk to him. He might also have been able to take a foothold in a profession and would not sit on the bench alone in front of his family's house every day in beautiful weather. I would like to say something about this: The family has a very special meaning in this regard. There used to be much more large families than today, and in many of these large families family members were also cared for in the event of illness and disability in everyday life. The children have learned what it means when the grandfather or grandmother gets sick or disabled. You could also deal with it, you learned it. If there are disabled people in the class who are involved in teaching, then, as Mr Huainigg has already said, both sides will learn from it. This is important because the disabled are part of our lives and must not be locked away or separated in special classes. Our lives, ladies and gentlemen, are not perfect, just as we are all not perfect. I believe that we need to make further considerations in this area, particularly as to the extent to which our schools are really accessible or what problems exist at universities. – I believe that the BIG also has a very special responsibility in this regard. I believe that the universities themselves are less required here, but that the BIG as the owner of the buildings has more to do with it. The last area I would like to address concerns personal assistance at the training centre and at the workplace. In this respect, Austria has achieved a great deal in the consensus of all parties concerning the taking over of responsibility. I believe that it would be necessary to establish, in a next step, a legal claim for this personal assistance. First, the conditions must be defined when you get a legal claim to personal assistance, and then it must be ensured so that those who need this personal assistance are not only bitters, but also know exactly when they can take advantage of this possibility. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This concerns personal assistance at the workplace and also personal assistance at the training centre, not only at the universities, but also when someone wants to become active in the field of dual training as an disabled person. I would like to ask you very much to consider this request. I know that applications made by the opposition usually do not always agree. But we still have a little time to vote, and I think there could be a way for this request to be decided. I congratulate the applicants who, with their initiative, now make it possible for people with mental disabilities and special pedagogical needs to be fully integrated away from school attempts. Finally, I would point to a development that took place in the last 15 years, because Mr Huainigg put everything in the room, which is possible: We had 46 integration classes in 1990 in Vienna, and in 2005 it was 650. – This is a very positive development. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16329	The motion for a resolution which has just been read is sufficiently supported, properly put in place and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16379	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Schmied is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16402	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed this motion for a resolution very intensively in the Committee on Education, and I am very pleased about it. Let me briefly outline the objectives we have set ourselves in the government: First point: Take-over of existing school attempts to integrate into the regular education system. Second point: Joint development of the foundations for the implementation of integration even after the eighth level of school with the coalition partner. In this context, I should also like to refer to the government programme, in which the possibility of integration after the eighth level of school has been referred to, and we will now work together on the legal basis. Thank you very much for your support by this motion for a resolution!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16432	The next speaker was Mrs Haubner, who spoke for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16454	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! On the part of the BZÖ, we will be happy to give this request our approval, because this is an important and necessary development towards equality and better integration of people with disabilities, for which the course was set in the last few years. I can also draw a lot from the wording of this proposal in that it is here that we are building on positive results over the last ten years. – Mrs Federal Minister! I have already mentioned this in the Committee: During the last legislative period, an application for quality assurance and further development of school integration was adopted here in Parliament in May 2006. The relevant evaluation report is obviously not yet available. But I believe that if we continue and go beyond the eighth level, it is necessary to build on a good basis. I would like to ask you to draw up a report on this subject and to present it to Parliament. In principle, as I have already said, important adjustments to equality have been made in recent years. I should now like to point out, for example, the disability or disability legislation or the necessary means for the employment offensive for people with disabilities. It is gratifying that this employment offensive is being continued in the new government. In recent years many barriers have been removed, but there is still enough to work on. As my previous speakers have already said, it is not always about barriers to construction, but above all about barriers to access to training or professional training. I believe that we can start today with this proposal to reduce further barriers together and to create even better opportunities for people with special educational needs and with disabilities to the future labour market and to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16499	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lapp with a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16520	Madam President. Minister! High house! I would like to thank Mr Niederwieser and Mr Huainigg very much for this item on the agenda. You and we are now bringing into Parliament what numerous parent initiatives or citizens' initiatives have repeatedly called for in recent years. We have to thank them above all, because they have not been undermined and have always fought for disabled children to be integrated into the school system as it should be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the present situation, compulsory schooling is highly dependent on self-initiative. There is a lot of support for teachers. Children or young people affected or their parents repeatedly encounter very large barriers. We're tearing down these barriers now. We Socialists and Socialists were very concerned about furthering integration beyond the eighth level. We also have the vision of inclusion, which means that all children and young people should be encouraged and supported with their talents and skills and learn something at school. – We are now taking a big step along this path. We can address this important requirement under the Government Agreement. I am also very grateful to the ÖVP in this respect. I would also like to follow the words of Mr Huainigg, who joined his parliamentary colleague, Mrs Mag. Weiss, thanks. I wish her all the best! I am particularly pleased that with her know-how she is moving into the Chamber of Commerce, because I am pleased that there is also a rethinking in an economic interest representative towards accessibility and integration of disabled people and that there is a new wind. All right, Mrs Mag. White! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, We have the year of equal opportunities, and a first citizen initiative has now been launched across Europe. I was able to start a signature campaign last week, and I am looking for a signature to you and your environment for “1 Million 4 Disability”! You still have until 30. September time. It is important that we take steps here in Austria, but in addition to bringing all these measures and developments into the European area. We are on the right track, and this motion for a resolution, which we are voting on today, is a major step forward.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16573	The next speaker was Mr Amon. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16594	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Integration debates are always very important debates. We are debating here a motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Niederwieser and by Mr Huainigg, who are planning to advance integration beyond the eighth level, in particular with regard to polytechnic courses. In fact, this request should, of course, be supported. However, I agree to point out something, and this is in view of the fact that in part this is said in very pathetic terms, how important this question of integration is, in fact, sad: I would remind you that the Federal Government, consisting of ÖVP and FPÖ, has already introduced a bill here in the High House in the first half of 2002 with exactly that point, namely that the school attempt we have been carrying out in the polytechnic school for many years is generally carried out. It was precisely this request that was present, but it failed to accept the SPÖ's disapproval of the two-thirds majority required at that time. I'm just saying this in the middle of the order and I'm sorry! That's right! [[Abg. May. Lapp: That's not true!]] This was in the context of a school package, in which also a deeper introduction of political education and also the AHS upper-level reform was included, which was accorded with all the political couleurs, which reached the teacher, student and parent representatives. We were already a little in the heat of the election campaign, and for these reasons this school package was rejected. This is also to be said if we are dealing with this motion for a resolution today, which is to be supported with broad support by God! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Mr Brosz, I would like to draw your attention to two essential points – you have expressed pleasure at the fact that Elisabeth Gehrer no longer has responsibility for the matter, because she has blocked these things – because I am concerned that we should stick to what is going on. Minister Gehrer has not blocked and hindered integration! I cited one example: the 2003 bill with the integration of children with special educational needs beyond the eighth level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] – Mrs Lap, I thank you for the call! Secondly, I would like to mention that an essential point, for example, was the introduction of the teaching or the partial qualification of children with disabilities. I asked my colleague Dr. Huainigg, who was at the time a great help in the negotiations on this subject also with you, where we succeeded in implementing this teaching under the direction of Elisabeth Gehrer: Today, we have over 3,000 young people who take such a participation. I believe that integration policy must be based on the creation of an individual offer involving those concerned. Therefore, the involvement of all school partners in school tests is in any case important. One should not encounter the school partners with distrust, but should involve them and win them for such ideas.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16649	The next speaker was Mrs Haidlmayr, who spoke for 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16670	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to address Mr Amon's comments in a moment. – Mr Amon, that Mrs Gehrer was the Federal Minister who pushed back the integration and took away the successes already achieved, is undisputed and rereadable everywhere. But they do not seem to want to read this and have probably never read it. That's a fact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now come to another point: In the past, a maximum of four children could be in a class of integration. Mrs Gehrer managed to tighten the situation in such a way that at least four children must now be in an integration class. – This is only a small point, but unfortunately we had to enjoy the approach and the thought of Mrs Gehrer for the integration of disabled children for many years. Thank God it's over! - That's what I'm talking about. You also mentioned that you wanted the integration of disabled children in the last school package. – I say something to you: In this school package, you only wanted to abuse us for housing your new code of conduct, and we would have always been right for you as people with disabilities. But we are not to have for that, and that is why we were not for it either. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The motion for a resolution that we are now before us is as follows: It was a step, but with this request I am very sorry that he has no time horizon. It does not stand by until when this is to be implemented, but only that you should and should and should and would be beautiful. I hope that Mrs. Minister – who now had to leave and with whom I have agreed that I will give her our demands in writing – will not take so long until the legislative period is over, although we all believe today, something will change. I mean, What we got today is a bit of a narcosis. However, it is not yet a result for a long time; it is above all not a result that really ensures the integration of children with disabilities in all areas of school. There's a long way to go! Mr Amon, school doesn't have to vote on whether she wants a disabled child in school, because: It is simply a human right that you can enjoy the education you consider important and appropriate for yourself! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the context of a democracy, individuals are never allowed to decide what education people with disabilities may or may not enjoy. It would not be democracy, it would be something else. Think about it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this FPÖ request for personal assistance at the workplace is a small step. However, it is not only about personal assistance at work, Mr Minister, but, as you know, it is basically about personal assistance. Personal assistance can also mean that a person needs 24 hours, regardless of whether he is employed or not. I believe that we must ensure that individual personal assistance according to the respective needs. We will still have to debate this, but I am convinced that we will be able to proceed a little further. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you must not now act as if something had already happened with this motion for a resolution. That is not the case! It's just a little anesthesia to put us back a little bit calm. But it's not a change yet! I wanted to mention something. I was declared “incapacity for education ” in 1961. My parents fought for three years until they found that I was not ill-educated and that I was given a chance. I was allowed to go to a special school at the time – that was a privilege. That was better than nothing at all; after all, it was a special school. Mr Amon, children with disabilities can no longer be declared incapacity for education, which has been eliminated from the laws. For this, the Greens and the Self-Determined Life Movement have fought massively. The determination of whether or not to go to a regular school is, however, still valid in many areas today, and that means quite specifically, that for 40 years not much has been done and that the pressure for something to change at last is very great. Do something, and more than just decide again what we may or may not, just because we are people with disabilities! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16772	Mr Amon spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the legal provisions. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16797	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Haidlmayr said that I would have said that the school partners would have to decide what training people with disabilities should do. - That's wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] I have stated that I believe that the school partners, as provided for in the current legislation, should continue to decide which school tests are being approved, and which are not.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16837	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. Mr deputies, you've done four minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16859	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I would like to add a supplement to Mrs Haidlmayr: Our initiative on personal assistance was not only reduced to the workplace, but of course also concerned the place of training, and that is why this request has been made here today. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Today's debate really goes in the right direction. This is also confirmed by the recent study by Bernhard Felder by the Institute for Higher Studies under the title “Economic Assessment of Austrian Schools”. In this study, Bernhard Felder found, among other things, that factors such as class size, teaching time or teacher training do not play a major role in the pupils' knowledge, but, vice versa, affect the family situation as well as the social situation of the pupils in their training opportunities. This is the point of today's debate, namely the social situation, and it is right and important to intensify and expand the special educational needs accordingly. We have put in a good initiative in this regard and we ask for support. The Minister is not here at the moment, but I would like to stress that it will be important that we make much more teachers available for this. Let us take a look at the overall need for additional teachers' capacities! The need to increase the number of teachers is already associated with the reduction of the maximum number of students to 25 and below. On the other hand, of course, additional support teachers are needed for the need for special education. In view of the fact that we also have problems in schools with many behavioural students, of course much more class divisions need to be done, which is why more teachers are needed under the line. I would like to note that all the points of debate can only be implemented if we are able to hire and, of course, pay much more teachers. This question must, of course, be discussed and resolved in advance, otherwise God's debate today is almost in vain. I would therefore ask that many additional posts be provided, and thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16901	The next speaker is Mr Rada. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16922	Mr President. Dear Members of the Federal Government! High house! Mr Amon, I really wonder how in five years the history of subjective perception changes. In fact, we discussed integration in 2002, but only in the polytechnic school, and the link with so many other things was unacceptable to the opposition parties at that time. If you are still saying that election struggles were already in place at the time, I think you should have known at the time that you will announce the coalition with the FPÖ in autumn. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] It would be very interesting to read this in the protocols. I think it is positive how all my previous speakers spoke out in favour of this integration after the eighth level of school. When you look back in history, you can see that it was indeed not quite easy to introduce integration into Austria. I remember very well how affected parents joined together and requested this right of integration in compulsory schooling. I can also remember what concerns there have been on the part of the teacher and also on the part of some school-keepers because of the necessary structural measures and the associated costs. In addition, some parents also feared that their unimpeded children would have disadvantages in their learning success due to disabled children. – Thank God all this has not occurred! On the contrary: Many parents have consciously given their children into integration classes so that they can also learn socially with those children who have other special needs. It is therefore a great success in the field of compulsory education. But if you compare the numbers, you find that there are still nearly as many special school classes as integration classes. Integration is thus still not fully implemented in Austria. If we now extend integration to the ninth level, it must not be the final target. In this context, the Commission will be able to take into account the needs of the Member States of the European Union and of the Member States of the European Union. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Rather, it must be the goal to go beyond the first step of school attempts in higher schools, because children with special needs in individual areas also learn a lot in part aspects and have it much easier in later working life, when entering a teaching or other occupations than those children who have not been integrated but who have been selected.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e16980	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17001	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased that we have now agreed in this resolution to promote the school integration of children and young people with special educational needs even after the eighth level of education. There is no question that disabled people like everyone else want to secure their livelihood through their own work, and they should also be given the opportunity to do so. In particular, we must give children with special pedagogical needs the opportunity to prepare themselves in a special way for their professional life. Until the eighth level, we have already anchored integration in the regular education system and have gained good experience with it. However, we have also had good experience with the school tests in the polytechnic school and in the vocational education school system. Now it is logical to continue integration after the eighth level. It seems to me to be very important that the acquired skills of a disabled child be further developed and strengthened. Disabled people want to live a largely normal life, i.e. they want to have equal opportunities and equal rights in their training as they do not. Through the opportunity to practice a profession of their ability, they experience appreciation and recognition. They have a satisfying, meaningful activity and thus the opportunity to live a self-determined life. It is very important to allow these young people the basis for such a professional life. In other words, we must enable the integration and promotion of disabled children until they complete their career selection and training. Of course, there is a need for flexibility, acceptance and mutual respect. The promotion of disabled people must be a general concern of a democratic and rich state like Austria. People with disabilities must be given the opportunity to develop their existing skills and make them available to the general public despite physical and mental limitations. It is a shame that this proposal did not come about five years ago, as Mr Amon told us. That's what we would have done! But it is good that it is happening today, because today we no longer need the two-thirds majority. The whole thing, unfortunately, failed at the time of the two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17046	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I'm asking everyone Ladies and gentlemen, take a seat because we come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 210 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 37) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on the right to personal assistance at work. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[13:11:06]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 276/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Petra Bayr, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Immissions Protection Act (221 and 221 of the EC Treaty) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on Amendment No 7/A by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the Immissions Protection Act (IG-L-Novelle 2006) (222 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17129	We come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17159	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pröll, first of all, all my good wishes for your recovery! I recognize that, despite this handicap, you are giving us the honour here, and I hope for a very constructive discussion. This is also urgently necessary, because you, Mr Minister, – and this is my most convinced and vehement accusation here – once again have been kneeling in front of the driver lobby, and you have been kneeling in front of the industrial lobby, in front of the institutions and representations that want to give unimpeded gas on the highway. [[Abg. Parnigoni: The Minister Pröll can't do that with his injured foot!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mr Minister, we discussed the Immissions Protection Act air in 2005 – it goes back to the implementation of an EU directive from 1990, 39 EC, Article 5 para. 1 – and already at the time we criticised that you, Minister of Transport Pröll, did not prevail against the Minister of Transport – at the time called Gorbach – and that you allowed the Minister of Transport to interfere in a health policy measure, in an environmental policy measure, where he has nothing at all to look for. What is a Transport Minister to do in the field of environmental protection? Most positively supportive. But at the time, Mr Pröll, you have allowed the Minister of Transport to have a negative impact on it by allowing the Minister of Transport to withdraw speed limits which last longer than three months in his office. That was a clause that you, Dr. Pröll, accepted at the time as Minister for the Environment. And, unfortunately, even now it's not about a new federal government finally ending what Gorbach has put on us, so to speak, no: You are even confirming this influence, yes, you are even expanding the influence of the Minister of Transport! The Minister of Transport may, therefore, continue to impose a veto at speed limits for fine dust limit values for a period of three months, even having an influence on the way in which the regulation looks out to define the criteria by which this rate limit is either decreed or withdrawn. So strengthened influence of the Minister of Transport. And that pleases you, Mr Pröll?- Oh, my God! I have to say that you have not done any honor to your office! Just look at this detail measure; it is about Tempo 100 in Tirol, in Styria, in Salzburg, in Upper Austria, partly also in Lower Austria. These tempo limits, of course, have triggered a relatively large public debate, because they are partly poorly prescribed and legally flawed, but have been effective in the matter. You can read the evaluation reports from Tyrol; You can understand them in the Styria; You can also browse from Upper Austria: It turns out everywhere that the situation has improved due to this measure, caused by fine dust limit limits – adding in parentheses: It will take 24 months to finally take action after border crossings have taken place. There's already a delay effect of two years. You have to let that break on your tongue! Two years ago, too much fine dust was available – and now it is only possible to order speed 100 as a measure. Now, with your signature, Mr Umweltminister, all this is still to be flexibilised! It is true that all the people who think well, Mr. Minister, are really taking their head. In fact, these flexible plants are still lagging behind the reduction of fine dust and pollutant emissions. Read your own documents: On behalf of the Tyrolean Government, the Federal Environment Agency has very probably presented an attestation which shows that, if there are flexible tempo limits – not the fixed ones – there is 40 percent less reduction in fine dust, NOX, SO2, and some other harmful emissions. And that's what you take along and sign! – Mr Minister, this is a kneefall par excellence – and we cannot really accept that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In view of this, Minister Pröll, in the transport sector – you say it often from the government bank, from the committee or also from the media – the curve is going up, steeply up that we have a doubling of CO2 emissions and a significant rise in SO2, that nitrogen oxides are increasing, as are the particulate matter, I ask you, Minister for the Environment: What are you doing about it? – You put the pace up too! So nothing but upward, upward, upward, exactly where we would have to slow down, where we would have to lower, where we would have to reduce, where we would have to take into account the health of the people, the health of the people, and the overall situation of the environment, and where – but I really don't want to mention it at all – we would have to act in the sense of climate protection! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, Mr Minister – I do not want to go into all the costs now –: What you're going to do with your flexible influences costs you 315 million € in Austria! It costs € 315 million to allow people to drive fast and thus increase exhaust gases These € 315 million are for a shredder! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Everything for the environment and for health!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] If you make fixed tempo limits, you could save yourself this money, yes, you could double the financial resources for the environmental fund, for the climate fund. Remember: €50 million for the Climate Fund this year – and you will invest €115 million in these transport facilities! These plants are certainly useful for other things, but certainly not in terms of the reduction of fine dust or certainly not in terms of the implementation of the IG air. Mr Umweltminister, now another sample of nails – a second one, because the first one you did not pass, namely those relating to the improvement of air or the reduction of fine dust by a more stringent IG air. You liberalize, no, you just water it! So second sample, Mr Pröll, or my dear colleagues here in the National Council. Mr Faymann spoke of a shift of transport from road to rail, including a doubling of the truck toll, and in this context I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That's exactly what you always demand, therefore: Please, do it! Do it and support our request! Another application to implement what has been repeatedly announced by the government bank, namely a comprehensive extension of the truck toll, is again an instrument to achieve shift effects, away from the road and to the rail. This is our request: Motion for a resolution by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on the comprehensive extension of the truck toll "The Federal Government, in particular the Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology, is invited to forward to Parliament a proposal for the legal implementation of a comprehensive truck display throughout the road network in Austria immediately." I appeal to you from the Social Democracy, from whose ranks this proposal comes and for which the Chamber of Labour has provided good documents: Let's do it at last! With our help, our initiative would really make a proper leap towards climate protection, towards health protection, towards environmental protection possible! But please do not forget another kneefall, in which you, Minister Pröll, are in the concept of preparing such a one again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17307	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser on the implementation of a comprehensive truck crew is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17386	The next speaker is Mrs Bayr. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17407	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the suspicion that Mr Pröll can't get on his knees right now because of an injury-related disability. The change in the IG air, I think, will bring a clear improvement in air quality, and this will also create a legally secure instrument to deal with transport impact systems and an avenues in the future, with the aim of avoiding possible overruns of air pollution limit values from the outset. This law establishes the basis for a uniform regulation across Germany, a regulation which will be adopted in agreement between Environment and Transport Ministers. This, as I believe, will clearly help to improve the protection of the air and thus to improve the protection of people, the environment and health. I have already said this in committee: That you agree with the Minister of Transport to steal very easily the protection of health, air, environment et cetera, that it does not matter to him and that of course he will always make use of his veto, I do not see that. So this veto is a cannibal possibility, and this veto is nothing that will simply come automatically after three months. This veto is an option, and I think there will certainly be agreement: in terms of air protection, health and ecology. That's so simple. At any rate, this is not a question of “kneefalls ” or anything else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: Why can he...?]] In order to address this request from the Greens, which we are now negotiating: I would rather go a different way in what you propose in your proposal, which is not at all a matter of transport at all, but in general the question of high-injection areas, I would rather go another way. I think we should try to think of new possibilities. As far as IG-Air is concerned, we will soon have to negotiate and discuss a larger innovation. In any case: It's easy to say: Off, mouse; Cover on it, nothing goes!, this is relatively inflexible and not very forward looking. It would be much more sensible to see what is with those farms that are already producing and issuing. So how can we do something for those farms that already have a permit to do something to help these plants, for example, to reduce their emissions from pollutants and to achieve something like a regional emission compensation? Just to say: Nothing goes anymore!, that is, as I mean, a too simple and by no means intelligent solution. The innovation that we are now dealing with shows quite clearly that electronic transport control systems can also be used quickly and flexibly for the environment. It will be included in the respective regulations, which can then be adopted by national leaders, even all possible key figures, which are up-to-date, hourly, e.g. as regards the current load of air, as regards the number of vehicles on the road, as regards weather conditions, weather forecasts or experiences with regional weather conditions. There will therefore be a lot of interconnected links. I hope, anyway, that it will be possible to react very intelligently, very quickly and flexibly. Intelligence is also the key word, and it is important to make intelligent policies with these traffic influences – and not only to use them to implement 160 km/h test lines, as the “Minister Lead Foot” has done in the past legislative period. – As we hear, this one hopes to be able to move to the UK. Perhaps he is leaving the country because “the world is in Vorarlberg too small” – and perhaps the streets are too short to be able to accelerate properly. [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ as well as with representatives of the Greens]] What do you know? – I am quite sure, however, that the illegal setting up of blue light as well as the illegal assembly of federal eagles somewhere, like as a test pilot at MacLaren, for example, will not convince the British. There would have to be a little more intelligence, a little more know-how from Mr. Ex-Minister in order to come to a trend-setting job. In my opinion, however, we here in the Austrian Parliament should also live as international solidarity – and the British strongly warn of what could happen to them when they let Mr Gorbach work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17471	Next, Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17492	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, it is already interesting how different positions can be when someone is in executive political responsibility – or, so to speak, at the green table or at the speaker's desk, talk about something without having to take responsibility for decisions. I can quote you from a letter to Mr Pröll, or from a press release by an Upper Austrian politician, from a Council of State, which would like to quote – quote – that the current rigid speed limit to 100 km/h in the period from 5 am to 10 pm is replaced by Immission-controlled, flexible speed schemes from 2008 onwards. This is to be made possible by a modern traffic control system – this Upper Austrian Council of State continues – in which, with the help of computer systems, emission measurement results, traffic count data, meteorology is calculated, whether a speed limitation is required or not – and so on. I would also like to quote: Only when these thresholds are exceeded will this system be switched on or off. Do you know who wrote that? – Your green councillor, Anschober, who wanted to have that! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Well, we're surprised now!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Here look!]] And now we're doing this with this law, now we're doing it with this new law novel – and now it's not right for you of the Greens either! [[new calls to the Greens and calls to the ÖVP]] However, in this case, Mr Anschober has an eye and ear closer to the daily reality than you do from the speaker's desk and at the green table. In this case, I would rather join and support your Mr Landesrat. That's why we're going to decide on this novelle today. I think that makes sense. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] A second one: You, Mrs Moser, have previously criticised the cost of supposed €350 million or associated with these restrictions because of the IG-L. – you know what you can do with electronic traffic control systems, with traffic control – and you will not give up all these advantages seriously and you will only want to attribute the costs to this one application that is useful. I think that would be a little intellectually demanding. In any case, we will decide on this: also within the meaning of the Council of State of the Greens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17556	I would also like to say that Mrs Dr Gabriela Moserim has tabled a further motion for a resolution on the doubling of the toll of trucks. This request is also sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17636	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17657	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There you can only say: Rudi, Rudi, give eight, your shadow will shine through the night! – in the form of the ÖVP in this case. Of course it's like this: If you are responsible for government, everything is much, much more difficult. We have experienced this on our own and hope that we will be able to prepare for the next government responsibility better than for the last. [[Call the ÖVP: There's a little more time!]] Ladies and gentlemen, at regular intervals, environmental issues are discussed, which then suddenly disappear from the agenda. Now we are discussing climate change very intensively; there is a fireworks of measures; very many are useful, others are not meaningful. Nuclear energy, CO2-sequencing: less meaningful. A few years ago, we discussed garbageberge. We suffocated in garbage!, it was then called. – But: We're not suffocated yet. Then the acid rain was a topic; forest deaths and acid rain. Then came the discussion about the ozone hole. – I think you can say that the ozone hole has disappeared from the minds of many politicians. I'm asking you not to misunderstand me, but: Now, not as much of this ozone hole as a few years ago is being thought about, but more about the subject of fine dust. We must be very careful that, whether a subject is being discussed or not, we take the right measures and do not let ourselves be taken for wrong decisions within the framework of hip shots. The fact is that, due to a high fine dust load, plant settlements are at risk, as we see in Tyrol. So if the limit values are exceeded, this is also a disadvantage for our economy. But now we are looking at the measures taken in the transport sector! So far, the rigid regulations have implemented a savings potential of 4 tons of fine dust – 4 tons of a total of 45 000 tonnes in Austria! That means we saved about 1 Promill. I wonder if we are not taking the wrong measures here. In Upper Austria, if I am properly informed, we have limit values on about 13 days, but the limits apply on 365 days. I am very much in favour of applying flexible mechanisms to ensure that there are measures if there is indeed a risk of fine dust. Or something else: to reduce the CO2 burden. Because we know from physics teaching, from aerodynamics, that the resistance of an object moving in non-air empty space increases with the square of speed. This results in higher energy costs, at double speed of the fourfold air resistance, higher fuel load. But we also need to go a wise way. It would therefore be appropriate to apply insurance tax to motor vehicles. Why am I being taxed on motor insurance as a result of the performance of my motor vehicle? - That's totally irrelevant. There are today vehicles that have 120, 150, 170 hp and come out with less than 5 liters of fuel. And then there are vehicles that are allowed to consume much more at low performance. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17745	The President of the Council of Ministers of the European Union. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17799	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17820	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Today we are talking about two applications concerning a federal law that amends the Immission Protection Act Air. The need for action in this area shows the current situation in the Styria, where the Environment Council, well-known, wants to adopt or adopt a regulation based on the road transport regulations and not go to IG-Luft. After the BZÖ successfully fought the regulation of the previous year at the Independent Administrative Senate, however, this demand stifles – unfortunately anything but fine! From our point of view, the right path can only be a new, flexible system of traffic control systems, as they are now planned, which are linked to a central measuring point, and only when the values are exceeded or risk is delayed will a speed limitation be triggered – which is no longer a problem in the computer and digital age and is also a high time. So only then, if there is a real danger in the delay, and not by a arbitrariness of the local authorities, which seem to be only on the downfall of the drivers! You almost have to get the impression that this is not about the environment and its protection, but, despite new, expensive three-track motorways, it is only about a pick-up of the drivers. I am also looking forward to the more flexible and transparent handling of additional panels. This can only be welcomed so that road users really know why they should drive slower now. I think that'll help everyone. As far as the regulation of access to rehabilitation areas is concerned, it is only possible to welcome administrative simplification. In the future, derogations will only be granted by a competent district administration authority, which is the one in which the first entry into the rehabilitation area takes place. We cannot only approve of this, because here a lot of time, a lot of money and a lot of unnecessary kilometers are saved, which, in turn, only burden the environment. Now to your request, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens: Unfortunately, we cannot go along here because you demand that no new plant and industrial equipment be approved, especially in the area of Tyrol. It's a shock to the economy. Newly created jobs would be prevented here. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[He was also in favour of BZÖ and SPÖ representatives.]] As a matter of principle, the facilities must be close to the motorway for me, because this does not lead the transport, especially heavy traffic, through the residential areas and does not burden the population. That's actually international standards. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't know yourself so well, the Greens!]] They want to completely eliminate the Minister of Transport's right to co-operation in the case of transport restrictive measures which can be adopted by the country. This would, in turn, result in the fact that there would be a purely flickering sluice in Austria through an unlimited country regulation on motorways – see Graz, see Upper Austria. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler:... Minister of the Environment, he prefers to fly!]] The other federal states could take an example of our head of state in Carinthia, Dr. Haider, who is already exemplary in implementing environmental protection measures for the country of Carinthia, but without increasingly burdening drivers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I can only congratulate Mr Haider. He has already implemented the conversion of all public transport gas stations to biodiesel and issued a ten-point decree that I would like all the federal states to imitate it and really protect the environment and the climate. [[Abg. Eder: Where does he come from?]] I can already tell you that this is not just a speech, but that it is actually implemented. Mr. Minister, I'm allowed to... [[Abg. Eder: A picture with?]] I'm sure I'll have that with you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I wish that this would also be implemented so quickly by all the other federal states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17940	From the government bank Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e17962	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Today's IG-Air-Novelle is an important point in my view. We will have to discuss another novel in the next few months, because a law in this dimension also needs to be examined in an evaluative way in its effects and it was something completely new when we created it, in the very sense of ecology and health protection. With this novelle today, no change will be made to human health, to ecology at these fundamental festivals, namely in the case of limit values, but we will use modern technical facilities, as they have been available for a short time, to provide a flexible response in the case of prevention and rehabilitation. If the limit values are exceeded, this system can react flexibly with the speed control. This makes sense and can be an international model. A second point I would like to address, because it has been completely turned under the table in the discussion, is the fact that even if there is a risk of a limit value being exceeded, preventive speed limits can also be imposed. This is also an important way to reduce preventively not only in cases of excess, but also in individual cases. A second point: We will also, of course, in agreement with the Ministry of Transport, set in a separate regulation the general criteria on which the head of state can then set the parameters for speed limits in detail. In addition to this question of flexibility, the novelle also brings two other benefits. One is – and this has always been at the heart of the House and many others – an overall administrative simplification at the level of the district authorities on the one hand and, on the other hand, a clarification in the execution, which will also make us decisive in this area. The novelle shows that mobility interests as well as environmental and health interests can be combined. What makes me particularly happy – this also shows the discussion about this novelle – is that the green theorists are obviously sitting here in the house and on the spot the green practitioners demand exactly what is decided today. This is an encouraging sign on the way to the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18001	Next, Mr Steier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18023	Mr President. A warm welcome to Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll! Ladies and gentlemen! The current IG-Luft-Novelle contains four priorities that have already been presented by my previous speakers. I'm allowed to rip her up for a moment: Granting of derogation permits, clarifications on procurement, opportunities for national leaders and, as the Minister has pointed out, implementing regulations for flexible speed limits by the Environment or Transport Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the most important thing – and that has already been said – is the possibility to put in place transport measures to avoid border crossings over traffic control plants. These electronic installations operate with a number of parameters to regulate traffic flow. Data on road conditions are used as well as data on weather or noise and pollutant emissions. Since the information is available in real time, it is possible to react preventively and without delay to the achievement of limit values. Ladies and gentlemen! The discussion, which has ignited in the Committee on the Environment, whether fixed or flexible tempo limits bring higher pollution savings, is more academic in nature. In my opinion, Relevanter is what has been hidden from the very heated debate in recent months about the so-called Feinstub-Hunderter, namely that the IG Air Immissions Act was heavily watered down in 2005 and it is therefore a recovery case. It is in the government agreement, and I assume that it will happen in the next few months. You remember: The 2005 Environmental Adjustment Act, which the Federal Council opposed, restricted the range of possible measures to combat dust pollution with numerous derogations. As we know, fine dust is produced not only by transport, but also by industry, by small consumption, by agriculture, but also by the UBA. Report “Emission trends 1990-2005” states that agricultural tractor emissions are not at all attributable to agriculture but to small consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that offroader is a very difficult category in fine dust pollution. Therefore, I am convinced that it is important, as with the mass of drivers or commuters, to impose driving restrictions here, which are actually considered exceptions. I assume that we will also be able to carry out the evaluation of the IG air over the next few months, in order to create a new instrument against the fine dust, which is efficient without damaging content. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18068	Mr Magistrate. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Kukacka. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18089	Mr President. Mr. Minister! High house! Of course, I welcome today's innovation of the IG air, especially for environmental reasons – after all, Mr Kopf has already pointed out, we can also implement a wish of the Upper Austrian Greens here – but also, of course, and above all, from the point of view of transport policy. God is now being created thanks to the clear condition that by setting up VBAs and their connections to the corresponding measuring systems, the speed limits for the drivers can now be individually regulated or limited in time and space, depending on the limit value. This is good and right, ladies and gentlemen, because only in this way can the relevant pollution be addressed, and the current permanent reductions in the speed limits after IG-air, as they are now imposed and in which there is no concrete reference to the present prevailing pollutant pollution, can be prevented. That is good, because of course the drivers have no understanding at all that speed limits are imposed on broad-track motorways, although the limit of pollutant will not be exceeded at all! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and detonatative accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, to give just one example, I would like to point out the restriction on the A 1 between Enns and Linz. There is currently this permanent limitation. But – as the measurements have also proved – in 2007, i.e. in this year, not only the nitrogen oxide load on this section, but almost all the above Austrian measuring points have fallen from 2006, so also in those areas where the limitation on the A 1 cannot work at all! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: There you see the greens!]] On the other hand, more than 20,000 drivers were displayed because of the speed limit. [[Abg. Scheibner: scandalous! It's the pühringer!]] The fact that there is no understanding of this is obvious, ladies and gentlemen. In this respect, today's regulation is an important, right decision, also to increase the acceptance of restrictions by drivers when it actually requires the environmental situation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen: Yes to speed limits, when it requires pollution, but not generally and without reference to a specific pollutant load! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18145	The next speaker is Mr Eder. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18167	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I may be allowed to join in what some of the previous speakers have already said. Of course, climate protection concerns us all and is especially important for all of us. But we also need to do all these things with an eye-to-eye and technical know-how in such a way that we pay attention to all those investments that have already been made. For example, in these areas, where, according to IG-Air, land regulations generally limited by 100 kilometres, three-way motorways with huge noise protection walls are three-way. All of this is investment in the direction that one has said that one should drive 130 kilometres and that it is protected from noise accordingly. But now, in these sections, 100 kilometres are imposed, and the drivers who do not adhere exactly to it are punished not only by road traffic regulations, but also by IG air and actually have little understanding of this situation. That is why I believe, as my previous speakers, my colleague, my colleague, and now colleague, Kukacka, have already said, that it would be very useful to use and use new technologies now – the Federal Minister has mentioned this too – which reacts very quickly to pollution pollution. This is coupled with traffic-telematic systems, which then reduces the speeds allowed accordingly. And the Federal Minister has also said that in the case of expected excesses – that was also a discussion – the speeds are set in such a way that there should not even be an overrun. Mrs Moser, if you think that € 315 million should not be worth it, because the telematics plants cost so much money, then I have to first ask what amount was meant for which installations here. There can't be an installation, that must be meant for several, but you didn't say that. – Anyway, one must know that these transport telecommunication systems are at least as important as the entire infrastructure development of the road itself, because these systems can generate much more traffic safety for many road users. So you have a much lower accident risk, reduced travel times, time savings and so on. Of course, for the environment, measures are of course less pollutant emissions, lower noise, less accident costs for the economy, a reduction in the cost of environmental consequences, lower storage costs, which are also not to be underestimated, and it also brings a great deal of business. That means: Telematic systems in themselves are systems of the future. And I can only ask the ASFINAG to invest as much as possible in this direction, because that is modern technology, that is future-oriented environmental policy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is also a sentence on Mr Hofer's comments, which in almost every speech mentions CO2 sequencing and is very opposed. Perhaps we can both deal more intensively with this issue. I think you should look very closely at things here, too, because CO2 is always present, no matter how you can accommodate it or dispose of it. So you have to look at this more closely. However, I am very much in favour of you mentioning this too. I do not entirely agree with the proposal on motor-related insurance tax, which you submit as an application, because if one still buys so many cars, which have very strong engines with a lot of petrol consumption, so that it does not drive, but which has been in the garage and likes to be cleaned and used and so on, this does not mean any CO2 emissions, but only when they go into operation. That's why you have to think about it: The driven kilometers for which fuels have been processed cause CO2, but not vehicles that may only stand and are kept out of love. So here, too, we should discuss the approach again. I am not saying that the approach is completely wrong; I am only saying, if so, that it should be targeted at fuel consumption, because only where it is burned will CO2 be generated. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18212	The next speaker is Mrs Lichtenecker. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18233	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! There is probably hardly any topic in Austria in the last half of the year, which is discussed as polemically as the “air hundred”, and it is particularly exciting that this “air hundred” is awarded the Upper Austria Predicate, which makes me particularly happy and amusing, because, as we experience today, the green proposals are always quoted and supposedly also incorporated. One step in the right direction, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] However, as has already been said, there is hardly any matter to which there are as many untruths as exactly in this area. Some facts from Upper Austria: In Upper Austria, we have Tempo 100 on the A 1 between Linz and Enns on a route of 13 kilometres, no more and no less. We now have the evaluation results... [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Scandal! ... Schikane!]] Drive a little more by train and less by car, then you have no shock! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What do the evaluation results show? – It is a remarkable and great result: In half a year, we've managed to have 1,200 tons of CO2 less. A success! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Not by the measure!]] We have nine tons less nitrogen oxides. A success! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a ton of less diesel particles. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: In the Römerberg Tunnel too!]] Mr Mitterlehner, Mr Kukacka, you know exactly that, even if you take into account the decreases in stress in other regions of Upper Austria, you still have a marked decline on this route. That's the truth and nothing else! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: There are also declines in other regions!]] How's it going? – We also have a reduction in noise pollution. Then we come to the accidents. What happened to the accidents? In the case of property damage, we have said and write 14 percent reduction and in case of accidents with personal injury at all 25 percent. An excellent result directly for human health! Mr Kukacka, if you are so sorry that 20,000 speed infringements have been committed, I will tell you: Regulations, laws are there to stick to them, and 84 percent have done so in Upper Austria, and that is good. Instead of always complaining about how poor people are and how bad any speed limits are, you should consider the people who stick to it. In fact, you and all other politicians should choose the way to praise people for this sense of responsibility and also for environmental awareness and also to thank them for complying with the rules. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A personal aspect for drivers is fuel consumption. Imagine: On this route, fuel consumption fell by six percent during this short period. This is about 400 000 litres of less petrol and diesel consumed. A success! A success in the climate balance, if nothing goes on all over the country. The Federal Chancellor is going through the area, to New York, chatting about climate protection, how great that is in Austria, and when we hear that in Austria, we are wondering what he is talking about. From which country is he Chancellor? There's nothing going on! We have over 160 days after the German Chancellor's Climate Change Summit and no gram of CO2 less. We have set up a climate fund, and nothing happens in the weekly period except staffing. [[Abg. Parnigoni: I'm sure you're confusing something!]] And so this goes down to the Ecostrom Act, Mr Minister, where you are really required that you at last speak plain text to the Minister of Economic Affairs that there is something going on, because that actually goes down the stream. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: This is not my law!]] So there's a disaster in the climate balance. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're confusing something!]] And there you see: Reductions in the speed of transport can also produce something. If Mr Kopf addresses the transport influences that are installed not only in Upper Austria, but also in Salzburg, Tyrol, Styria and so on, this has been a decision of the entire government. We'll see what it's doing. We'll see! It's extremely uncertain. All experts in this field say that fixed limits are much better. People can adapt to it, then there are fewer speed crossings, that's one. In this respect, it is also necessary to carry out an evaluation. Let's see what it really does. The fears are that there is, in fact, massive deterioration compared to the previously established limits. Mr Hofer with his request. Mr Hofer, the individual measure you are introducing is perhaps quite one of the possibilities. And I say, one of the possibilities. We see this as part of an overall concept. We think that this area is embedded in an eco-social tax reform and should not be taken out and implemented again and again, because the overall picture is much, much more complicated. A brief final sentence to the draft law submitted. It is unfortunate, Mr Minister, how little confidence this government has in its countries, in its national councils and in its heads of state. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: These are not “our” countries!]] This is indeed a problem, because the responsibility for it can be left in the countries, and that is good, because they know very well on the ground what they need there, what the population and what the environment needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18414	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18435	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! What really impressed and impressed me here in the National Council in the first year is the access of the Green Group to our Austrian system of social market economy. The span ranges from enthusiastic ignorance to unraveled economic hostility. Mrs. Dr. Moser, you are blaming our Federal Minister to make a “kneefall”. What should Federal Minister Pröll make a kneefall before? Before modern technology, before modern possibilities, in front of a modern system? This is the task of our Federal Minister, because our Federal Minister responds to the technical possibilities, Dr. Moser, existing measuring points in the Inntal, existing overhead signposts or, as you say, traffic influences. And I want to know what's wrong with the fact that we have already invested 360 million € in existing systems to carry out 100er restrictions, which are partly necessary, in such a way that they are modern and above all aware of the drivers, because there is nothing more stupid than to drive a hundred in the Inn Valley for six months, whether hair dryer, or inversion weather, because it's just that required. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: There's nothing stupid?]] In addition, please note: These traffic influences can also be described as “storage” – not Ideas, but normal traffic jam – “construction sites”, “spirit drivers” and so on. So you can use it in a variety of ways, and I think it's also good that we use it for it. In the Inn Valley, which concerns me most, we have an 80 km/h speed limit. The results from there should be a little more relevant than those in Upper Austria, because I can't imagine that we can achieve measuring results on a limited 13 kilometres. Two thirds of the population of Tyrol live in the Inntal. People live there because they appreciate the high quality of life, and this high quality of life is one of Austria's most economically successful regions, not only good air and clean water, but also beautiful prospects, but also flourishing businesses that offer jobs and future prospects to people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Now most of the Inn valley is designated as a rehabilitation area. In addition to the indisputable air loads, this brings other unpleasant accompaniments for the economy and complicated administrative procedures, and I also think that with this change, we have the responsibility of only one district head team to react accordingly, because it is not to be seen that three administrative authorities, as is the case in the Inner Valley, have to grant approvals. As has been said, we are trying to achieve something that we need for the people with modern technology, and we certainly need further barriers to the economy as you want it to be, because you also want to allow the head of state to take advantage of improvements in other areas in the area of renovations and to grant operating permits even when limit values are reached. That's also the wrong way, and I think we're on the right one here. We from the Austrian People's Party stand for solutions that can be explained to people who understand them and who make life easier for them. For Schikanen under the cover Ecology we are not to have. And I would like to thank the Minister for his concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18484	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. Also 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18505	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A number of previous speakers have already commented on the problem of transport. I would therefore like to deal specifically with the issue of operating policy. The basic intention of the proposal is quite understandable, and it is also very correct and important. We too, in many respects, represent a view by the Social Democracy that the Immission Protection Act will be important and will certainly be very important in the future. We are not only working on it now, but also on the fact that there will be improvements in the future, and we will certainly make further proposals in this direction in the course of this legislative period. However, the Green provision proposed would, in practice, lead, for example, to the construction of a district heating plant in a rehabilitation area, which has natural emissions, but at the same time, and this is important, to reduce significantly more emissions because it is more efficient because it has better filter systems, because it helps save energy at another point, that it should not be approved, just because other plants have not yet achieved the corresponding reduction potential. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hornek]] And, ladies and gentlemen, I think that's not all right. Therefore, new – that is important – modern, more efficient, energy-saving and low-pollutant plants would be prevented by this measure. It is precisely our aim to invest in state-of-the-art environmental technology with the positive effect that social democrats are extremely important for us to create new and modern jobs. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ is of course also of the opinion that it cannot be said that no matter how bad the air is, we can settle even more plants, no matter what toxic emissions/immissions are the result. I understand! We don't want that either. Nevertheless, it must also be possible in air-conditioning areas to put new plants into operation. This often goes hand in hand with the closure of old, less efficient plants. In addition to environmental protection, we must also allow working people in these areas, we must not forget the economy. Environmental protection and modernisation in the latest technology must be seen as an opportunity! Fortunately, the times when a purely prevention policy was understood as environmental protection are over. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to prevent the people of a region from going down, we have to create, above all, the framework conditions as politicians and as politicians, that new businesses, which, of course, are very strict. Environmental conditions are subject to, and can be settled. Only the colleagues and colleagues in the enterprises will generate the tax revenue we need to invest in research and development and modern, environmentally friendly technology and to promote environmental measures by public authorities. The workers, the employees simply need businesses in which they can work, ladies and gentlemen. That is why we need new operations and not one-sided and short-sighted prevention policies. Of course, what always needs to be improved is the legal framework, as mentioned above, in order to constantly reduce air pollutants. We are also working on this, and I invite everyone to participate in it constructively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18560	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18581	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, especially at the gallery! High house! This IG-Air-Novelle means green light for flexible speed limits on motorways in terms of the environment and ecology. It is a wish of the countries and, above all, of many commuters who need their cars every day, Mrs Moser, so that they can get to work. The transport impact systems bring greater acceptance to the population, as it is possible to react flexibly if air values are exceeded. This is understandable, and it is not a shock and, above all, really in the sense of the population. In the event of expected overruns of limit values laid down by the Regulation, the head of state should in future be able to arrange flexible speed limits for certain sections on motorways and highways equipped with a traffic impact system and thus prevent them. And this is particularly important that you can react preventively here, too, if the values increase, that you can then operate the system here. A word to the Greens. This is a concern to me as an above-story parliamentarian. Mrs Moser, Mrs Lichtenecker, this press release, I suppose, you will know. [[shows them]] ==References== ==References====External links== And he in this press release demands exactly what is now being implemented with this novel. It's literally here – I quote: The current rigid speed limit to 100 km/h in the period from 5 am to 10 pm daily is to be replaced by Immission-controlled, flexible speed schemes starting in 2008. This will be made possible by a modern traffic control system and will be calculated using computer systems from the factors Immission measurement results, traffic metering data and meteorology, whether a speed limitation is required or not. Only when certain thresholds are exceeded or lowered will the restriction be switched on or off. The ASFINAG is primarily responsible for the implementation. The preparatory work is on schedule. This is the summary of this press conference by the Environment Councillor from Upper Austria, and this is fully acceptable. A word on this because Mrs Moser said of the Greens: Argument Now Why don't you? – In the case of fine dust, you also do not deal correctly with your argumentation, because the fine dust is not only due to traffic, but the air knows no limits. Especially on the part of the A 1 in Upper Austria, one should ask if there is not a part of the fine dust coming from the industrial areas as well. And the pollutant decline is greater in the Römerberg Tunnel in Linz than on the piece of the A 1 between Enns and Linz. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's really wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: That's not wrong!]] – This is not wrong, you can read the paper from Landesrat Anschober! Therefore, this novelle is correct and important and a good step in the sense of the environment and also in the sense of the people who need their car to get to work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18637	The next speaker is Mr Stauber. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18658	Mr President. Estimated Mr. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My valuable listeners! I think that in terms of environmental protection we are all sitting in a boat, and any measure that is suitable to relieve our environment permanently is to be welcomed in principle. In my speech, I would also like to add a few words to my colleague, Mr Schopfan, who is also speaking in favour of maintaining business settlements and says that he cannot accept the stopover of farms which the Greens are calling for here. As mayor, I think we are de facto fighting daily to create new jobs in our municipalities. It is precisely necessary to get new businesses into our communities in order to maintain the prosperity and value-added in our communities as well. That is why I cannot befriend ourselves that we should call for a stop to new operations, because I think that today's strictest conditions for the environment are imposed, and the new businesses must comply with these requirements anyway. If we are to take this seriously and no longer carry out new operations in our municipalities, we must avoid doing so in regions that are now, as it were, healthy. I do not know, should we go to nature reserves, should we go to regions where there is still healthy air and the environment today, and then open up new transport routes, bring new transport there, and thus bring new emissions to these regions as well? I cannot befriend myself with this, and I think that will not be in the sense of your request. I hope so. I do think that we should work with a view to this, and that we should also be able to set up new businesses in our communities in the future; of course, among the strict environmental conditions that are necessary today. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18699	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18722	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the priorities of green environmental policy, Mrs Moser and Mrs Lichtenecker, is that the transport industry, the car drivers are constantly beating for being the main cause of bad air. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: We “beat” no one at all!]] I have selected some of the facts from the last report of the Federal Environment Agency and I have to say that: It is true that the entire transport – including rail transport – has a 26 percent share of air pollution. This means that all greenhouse gas emissions are covered by this share of transport. In addition, it must be noted, particularly as regards the issue of fine dust emissions, that from 1990 to 2005, these have remained roughly the same and we have had a decrease of between 3 and 4 percent in recent years. So this is not as bad an environmental situation as you always represent it, especially if you take into account that there are inversion weather conditions and air freight that you have no influence on. I believe that we should look much more closely at what is possible in the future in terms of technical innovation in order to reduce the corresponding emission values. And there the automotive industry is really very exemplary and very effective on the road. I would just like to take one action. For example, the last EURO-5 engine with Bluetech version has a reduction in dust particles of about 90 percent, with CO2 and pollutant emissions a reduction of about 70 percent and needs about 6 percent less fuel. If all issuers – house fire, industry and others – were to act in such an innovative way, we would probably not have any additional emissions in the near future and could reach the Kyoto target. That is why I believe that we should simply respect the not so bad environmental situation in Austria and not just pour out the child with the bath.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18757	Next come Mr Elmar Mayer. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18781	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I have great understanding of the concerns of the Greens when it comes to taking all measures to push back the CO2 producers wherever possible, and I am also annoyed by the financial compensation that has been completed. It is always only discussed on Sunday's talks about energy efficiency, but it is not linked to housing promotion. It is also the same with this financial compensation. I'm very sorry. [[Abg. Grill: Why are you annoyed? Tell me, too, why it came like this! Open up!]] I think it is important to take all measures, but this proposal is partly the opposite. The child is poured out with the bath when it is called here – I quote from the wording of the Greens' request –: ‘No new installations may be authorised in areas where there is a limit value exceeding the limit, unless any reduction measures have been taken.’ I would just like to point out one example. The former BZÖ Vice Chancellor said that “the world in Vorarlberg is too small” – he is right, small, but beautiful – but Vorarlberg is a beautiful country with unique... [[Abg. Head: Too small for a BZÖler!]] Too small for BZÖler, may be. Perhaps the reverse is also the case. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But there is a great danger in Vorarlberg, and we have therefore launched a so-called bottom-up process for the Vorarlberg Rhine valley. To help Mr Gorbach a little on the jumps: There were at least 29 Rhine Valley municipalities gathered here, about 240 000 inhabitants, 12,000 companies and 110 000 workers working there. How can we hold back the further relocation of the country? What can we do in order to actually keep up with the next generations and at the same time also the economic location of the next generation of areas, open spaces, agricultural areas? . But this request, as it was made by the Greens, wants exactly the opposite. I therefore believe that we need this step in the development of the country, like my previous speakers, Mr Stauber, Mr Schopf, but above all our environmental spokesperson, Mr Bayr, have explained in detail. We must have the opportunity to achieve a regional emission balance. We need new, forward-looking solutions. Prohibitions alone are too little. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18837	The next speaker is Mr Hornek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18858	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The amendment of the Immission Protection Act Air, better known by the abbreviation IG-L, became necessary in order to become more practical. For example, the competence of several district head teams for one and the same task or inaccuracies in carrying out the same task is thus a thing of the past. The national authorities may, by means of a regulation, impose speed limits on motorways and highways equipped with traffic control systems, which will then enter into force when limit values are expected or where they have entered into force. The regulation of national leaders must take into account local, topographical, meteorological and air-damage-related circumstances which determine the entry and withdrawal of speed limits. In principle, it must be noted that the implementation of the IG-L in central federal administration is very well established, as it is best to decide on the causes of the measures on the ground. It is possible to react quickly through state-of-the-art technology in the form of flexible transport control systems. The immission-dependent transport-influence systems, which only require 100 kilometres on motorways and highways, when it is necessary from the point of view of the environment at all, thus create a higher acceptance among drivers, and this is essential in this context. A law aimed at administrative simplification, on clear lines, at modern technology for the implementation of our environmental objectives is the right way. I'm asking for your consent. The remaining seconds of my speaking time I am devoting to you to think about how we can all work together on an efficient environmental policy. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18895	Mrs Dr Eder-Gitschthaler is the last speaker to speak on this item in the agenda. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18916	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! As the last speaker on this item on the agenda, I would like to follow the arguments of the previous speakers from my group and support the motion for an amendment to the Immission Protection Act, because climate protection concerns us all, as we have heard today. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: Exactly!]] I am pleased about the intensive discussion about this. Mrs Lichtenecker, I too am a railway driver – we saw each other when we came to Parliament yesterday – but I must say: Unfortunately, we can not handle all the routes with the public. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For professionals in particular, the car is an indispensable transport. That's why we don't get around. We in Salzburg are also affected by this change of law, because we also have three hundred zones on Salzburg's motorways. The section between Golling and Knots Salzburg has been adopted in accordance with this Immissions Protection Act. Transport is of course always a burden, of which we can sing a song in Salzburg, especially those who live in the border area with Germany, as I am. The big problem there is besides the traffic on the motorway the many so-called toll refugees. These ensure an enormous increase in traffic on the federal roads. I very much hope that Mr Verkehrsminister will be able to do something to relieve the suffering-tested population there. For example, I am thinking of low-cost and, above all, easy-to-organise daily vignettes or perhaps even of toll freedom around the sensitive areas such as the city of Salzburg. We must not, however, condemn traffic in principle. Mobility is always an indicator of prosperity and economic prosperity in a society. This was also mentioned by my previous speakers. The task of responsible policy is to take account of the various aspects, to reconcile the interests of the road users and the locals, who are at the same time road users. In my opinion, the present amendment to the Immissions Protection Act has been very successful, because, as has already been said, administrative simplification on the one hand and on the other hand, it allows greater flexibility and, on the other hand, does not forget about environmental protection, on the other hand. The flexible tempo limits could also be used to elucidate danger situations such as fog and smoothness. So we would have taken into account the security aspect, which is especially important to me personally. Thank you, Minister, for your commitment to climate protection and the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e18963	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft law concerning a federal law amending the Immission Protection Act Air, including title and receipt in 221 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We'll come to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, on the doubling of the car toll. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. [[Call the Greens towards SPÖ.]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Moser, Mr Moser, Mr President, on the comprehensive extension of the truck toll. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the assessment of insurance taxes on motor vehicles. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his report 222 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. [[14:27:42]] 7. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (171 d.b._Other Organiser Federal Act establishing a federal law on the cross-border merger of capital companies in the European Union, as well as the Company Book Act, the Law on Court Fees, the Law on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws on Laws of Laws on the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of the Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of Laws of the European Laws of Laws of Laws of the European Laws (2007 – 2007 – 2007)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19088	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker was Mr. Dr. Jarolim. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19122	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! We are now talking about the Company Law Amendment Act, which is essentially the implementation of a directive, the Merger Directive, which runs until 31. Whereas the present draft shall go beyond the requirements of the Directive in so far as mergers are also possible between limited-liability companies and companies; In essence, there is now an open discussion on the issue of the protection of creditors, in the event that in the two companies that are to be merged there may be a lack of capital in a company and that a creditor, a shareholder of a company, wants to have a guarantee. – So far, so good to this law. In this respect, I believe that Mr Ikrath will perhaps address this in his contribution to the debate, I should like to point out that all the laws that we are adopting here are only good insofar as they are, of course, implemented, ladies and gentlemen. If we are following the disastrous development of the Meinl Bank and its associated organizations and institutions and the equally disastrous effect of financial market supervision here in dilettantism, then it must be said that the best law does not benefit if such abuses occur in the application. I think you've got to take another look at what happened there! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Financial market supervision is not the main thrust, but the incident that took place there. This can only be done if you feel particularly secure because otherwise such a threat is unimaginable, which is obvious: One has really entered the capital market with all the seriousness, has done a capital increase and has bought back the money of these new investors – the new shareholders – shares of existing shareholders. The company has bought back its own shares with the new money of the shareholders, so that it keeps the course, with which, of course, those who could still sell were clearly preferred, and the poor who later came to it that the price is being manipulated have paid the bill when the price has fallen. It can be seen that there has obviously been the classical criminal record of unfaithfulness. If such a thing takes place – we have a financial market supervision, and all other real estate values have moved down uniformly, only the Meinl Bank or the Meinl European Land has kept the course – you can see that this is clearly manipulated. A FMA that would have had a minimum degree of efficiency should have noticed that. Since Mr Grasser has recently told us on TV that Mr. Traumüller was the best, I would just like to point out the following: He was not even on the shortlist – that is the minimum list of persons to be selected – of personnel consulting. So I think: Grasser, Gorbach – you don't have to say any more, more embarrassing things are no longer happening, cruel figures of the government of Schüssel. – We can be glad that we don’t have these people anymore! [[Call the ÖVP:Hello! “Greedy”? “Grayish” take back!]] But, as I said, Act, on the one hand, implementation on the other – we should pay attention to it! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19161	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19183	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Jarolim, it is already significant that the then Minister of Finance of the SPÖ is obviously going down so much that nine months after his departure there are obviously phantom pains for a tirade here in this House. That says something about this relationship, I think. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim:... hollow!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: ( towards SPÖ) BAWAG!]] I do not think it is a question of making constant accounts over the past few years in the next few years, but we should continue to work together on the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, now on the bill, which is the subject of this debate: It is, as Mr Jarolim has said, about the implementation of an EU directive, about the Europe-wide merger of capital companies, and it is about this, I say, rather bulky and also very complicated and complex legal system for lawyers. Nevertheless, such regulations in a common economic area within Europe are very important because, of course, it is not a marriage of love, but rather a reason for reason, when it comes to cooperation or cooperation and also the association of companies – simply in the context of very important economic processes. The more important there are clear directives and clear rules. We will now decide on these clear rules, especially in the area of cross-border mergers, where it is a matter of two companies with their registered offices in different EU countries, to come together in a common society, which then has its registered office in another or in one of the two states. The principles laid down in this law are, on the one hand, that national law is applicable and relevant to each of the merging societies and, on the other hand, that, in the area of merger, the protection of minorities by means of clear withdrawal schemes and by the possibility of claims for damages is very important if, in retrospect, different rules have not been complied with. One point also raised in the Committee on Justice is certainly also the question of employee participation in this new society, in which two companies – two capital companies – meet together. It should be noted that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour is competent and that a corresponding legislative proposal to adapt the labour constitution law is in preparation. Finally, I believe it is also important to stress that for the first time, this will create the possibility, even in Austria, not only of cross-border mergers of stock companies into a GesmbH – a requirement that is simply necessary in international economic life. The cooperatives, which play a very important role in Austrian economic life and represent a very traditional form of cooperation, are expressly excluded from these rules. I think that what we decide today means social policy – not in the sense that we usually understand it in this House, but a social policy that plays an important role in economic life and thus in the development of the European Economic Area and the economic location of Austria. I would therefore like to thank all the officials of the Ministry of Justice who have worked on this complex matter, first and foremost Mrs. Dr. Bydlinski – one of the designated social and merger lawyers in this House. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19251	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19272	Ladies and gentlemen! This law makes sense because it is necessary to ensure legal certainty in cross-border mergers within the framework of the internal market. The Federal Ministry has chosen a sensible and comprehensible way. It was important that an increased creditor protection was established, because it cannot be removed from the creditors through a cross-border merger and affected creditors' interests. – I think that through the individual information of the creditors and the permissive assurance that this does not happen. It was also important that the merger plan should address the impact of the merger on employment and on the workforce. It will also be central that the works councils and their concerns will be taken seriously already in the merger phase. It is therefore also appropriate and appropriate for works councils to be given the opportunity to attach an opinion in the context of the merger report. A further step will be taken to make the necessary adaptations to the Labour Constitution Act. - That's important. However, this law also shows us that there are completely different levels in Europe in terms of employee participation. The participation of works councils in the Supervisory Board we know is completely unknown in other countries. I therefore believe that it is important and useful for Europe not only to come together as an internal market, but also to be socially political, because it will not be enough for businesses to organise themselves Europeanally, but also for social policy to be organised Europeanally, and the workers' participation must also be organised Europeanally. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why it is central and important that the demand for a social union is not just a word aid, but the great task and vision is to fill these words with concrete considerations. What can be the cornerstones of a social union? – For example, the establishment of employee co-determination rights in all Member States; the effort to bring the Eastern European countries into line with wage levels in Western European countries; the termination of tax competition. We know this: It is devastating if social policies and tax policies of the individual European countries are played against each other and therefore companies have their own advantages at the expense of the Community. We need real social rights and a social impact assessment of all European measures. This is a vision of a social union that we need if we are not just to ensure a Europe of businesses, but also a Europe of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19335	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19357	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This matter of law is one of unanimity. This has already been expressed in the Committee, and our group has also indicated its approval. I would just like to remind you of the following: Too much joy over the state of this bill regarding this matter, which by the way was demanded by the Freedom Party decades ago, but that was still in ancient times, before the EU... – In the 1980s. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: In what decade was that?]] You can read it, I'll give it to you: "Liberal Market Economy 90" we produced in 1981, but we were far ahead of time. At the time, the ÖVP was not even able to follow it. In contrast to your position, the Freedom Party has also had the European agreement in the party programmes and statutes since 1956. - That's just by the way. It's always good to be... – No, no, we haven't changed! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: In between you have settled!]] I would like to tell you something critical, which may clarify the fog of the fireworks at hand of joy: Of course, it is a complete illusion to believe that Austrian workers' protection could be exported in its form of co-determination and representation to the Supervisory Boards. That died, that's as clear as water. There you can make as many laws as you want in the Social Ministry, no court in England will only remember them if a company, for whatever reason, melts into a absorbing limited, there installs a worker protection or a co-determination of works councils into a supervisory board that may be created. – There is no such thing as that. It's totally deviant to expect that. There is this possibility between Austria and Germany, but the legal effectiveness of the design power of the host state will certainly overshadow the theory. - But that's only for the sake of completeness. One could now also reflect on whether creditor protection is really done enough in real practice, by ensuring that nominal capital cannot be reduced and a reduction in capital is achieved. The recent examples we all take from the media – MEL and so on – prove that, when considering the real capital state of a capital company, it does not come to the nominal capital in the worst possible way! - But that's just by the way. It is still up to me to address the ladies who are now no longer present, who, in the early days, were particularly excited toward the lawyers – the woman minister was not there – to address some words regarding the minimum wage. [[Abg. Lentsch: They're home already!]] Untruths have been said. It is up to me to oppose those from the point of view of the lawyer. The fact that there has been a collective agreement with the Chamber of Lawyers in Vienna for ten years – and that is almost half of all registered lawyers – is one point. [[Abg. Mandak: Is there one?]] It is therefore an untruth of the special class to say that across Austria there is no collective agreement with lawyers on the remuneration of employees. [[Abg. Lens: You try it again and again!]] Point two: In reality, it should be noted that an employed female employee at a lawyer's office is in a highly qualified employee's relationship and it is totally strange and thoughtless to expect to receive such an employee by €1,000. So the truth has gone far beyond the facts that have been claimed here. [[Call the SPÖ: But give it!]] Last sentence: passionate trade union representatives should not make up for the free professions that produce a high proportion of the tax force in the country, and should not overwhelm the people with spams, with hundreds of emails, where there is a clear violation of the criminal provision of § 107 Telecommunications Act. – By the way, this has been displayed, and then it has been changed again. So: The truth beats a alley!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19463	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19494	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, Appreciate visitors to the gallery! On the content of the directive to be implemented and the government template on the table, a lot has already been said in the previous speeches. It is also not so easy to make it understandable for all in this specific field. For this reason, I can also say immediately that the BZÖ of this government template will also give its assent, as it is simply a fact that the economy – and above all the international economy – needs a regulation of this kind, and this regulation must also be implemented as quickly as possible. However, it must also be noted that for us this government template includes some sort of beauty mistake, namely, that, in addition to the new EU merger rules in this new EU merger law, the social merger rules continue to exist in the matter laws. We would have expected that there would be an access to include in a joint merger law, under which all the merger rules – both national and international – could, in order to ensure a better overview of the merger rules. In a further step, of course, it would have been nice – but who knows what the future will bring; we should all work on it – a company law to work out a cast. Mrs. Minister, yes, you smile. I know that's not easy, but it should be the goal of turning this in this direction. Another point that has caught our eyes at first glance at this government template was the access of the Ministry of Justice to implement this directive beyond the requirements of the directive. In other words, the implementation of this EU merger law is not limited to the foreign forms of society, which, as required in the Directive, refer to the Austrian form of company of AG and GesmbH, but allows a merger with all capital companies in the European area. Well, this is taken note of by us, as has been said, but precisely for the reason that this government template has very probably taken into account the protection of creditors, as well as minimum standards of capital retention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19552	The next speaker is Mr Wittmann. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19573	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been said a lot about the merger of capital companies from different Member States. In essence, we are following a directive which gives us the idea of allowing this merger to take place. We're one of the pioneers. As far as I am aware, we are the second or third country that is now implementing this. The principles of this right of merger are also essentially correct. I think that the application of national merger law on both sides of the companies to be merged is right. I believe that each country should be able to monitor internally how its own society is going into this merger. I also believe that it is important to reduce the barriers that not only similar companies – i.e. GesmbHs or GesmbH-like companies – can be merged into other jurisdictions, but can also bring GesmbHs and stock companies together. I think that it is a useful extension of the economic area to allow such a merger scheme. The control itself and the creditor protection institutions are based on the Societas Europea. I believe that these principles are also useful in this area in order to ensure appropriate protection. The implementation of Article 16 on the co-determination of workers is to be presented by a separate amendment to the right of employment constitution. I am already of the opinion that some of the principles to be considered as the basis for a merger can be incorporated, among which this merger can ultimately be allowed. I hope that there is really a lot to think about in order not to completely exclude workers' protection, but to maintain it in a standard, as it is usual in Austria. In principle, this merger is correct. And I also believe that it was right to solve some legal problems a little later, namely the compensatory measures when different capital power comes into effect. I'm sure that's what I'm doing. A few considerations make it possible to get through to a better solution. We will therefore vote in favour of this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19626	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19648	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, on behalf of my colleague Barbara Riener, I would like to greet the national officials of the Styrian government, who are listening carefully to our statements here. We hope that we will give them a debate that meets their expectations. [[As a result, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community and to ……]] Only two brief comments to my colleague Hannes Jarolim, which I do not see in the plenary room. [[Abg. Parnigoni: There he is!]] There he is! Mr Jarolim, I very much regret that you were not present in the last judicial committee, but that may be a reason why you have spoken less on the matter today than on other issues. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The regret was on my side!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: But that was not insignificant – I hope!]] But the great tolerance of our President Spindelegger allowed this. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It was at our heart!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: He spoke to us from the heart!]] I do not want to say anything about the supervision of the financial market today, because we are in the process of increasing the quality of banking supervision through an appropriate legal project. I am not, on the contrary, the defender of my own European country, on the contrary, I have already expressed myself very clearly to the public, as I have qualified a behaviour that damages investor confidence as much as the reputation of the financial market. I would just like to say one thing: Now we should wait for the examination of financial market supervision and the National Bank and then build our assessment on valid results. I think we are well advised because we have a high responsibility to draw our conclusions first. To date, to come to the legislative matter, it has already been possible to carry out cross-border mergers. But this was associated with many open issues and questions and also very high costs. In this respect, this law is really an important improvement. In my view, it is particularly valuable that it is now possible, on the one hand, to merge capital companies of different legal characters, but on the other hand, in Austria we have largely left the merger status stocks and, for example, it is not possible for cooperatives to be merged beyond the practice so far. In this connection too, I believe, we have made wise use of our design possibilities. In that regard, it is a law that means a great leap forward. I would also like to thank the officials of the Ministry of Justice because it is a very difficult, complex directive to implement. There will certainly be experience in the future, which will show us where we can improve this one or the other, especially in the protection of creditors and investors, but now we have laid a really good foundation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19744	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19766	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Fortunately, the Company Law Amendment Act finds the consent of all parties. So far, cross-border merger has been very complex, sometimes even impossible. The ECJ has approved the so-called'herein fusion' and has established it with the freedom of establishment. However, the merger left the ECJ open. The implementation of this EU Directive now brings clarity and is also a very important step forward in legal policy. There have been significant changes in the sense of workers and creditors compared to the draft ministerial sent out. For example, it is now planned that the merger report should take account of employees in the companies involved, the employment situation and the conditions of employment. In the draft, on the other hand, only consideration was given to the likely effects of the merger on employees. It is also very important for us that there is a merger report, because it provides that the effects of the merger on the creditors and employees are explained, that he is to be submitted to the meeting a month before and that the opinion of the employee representatives must be attached to the report. This right for employees, I think, is not to be underestimated. Of course, it is still to be thought, as my colleague Wittmann said earlier, that this employee participation must also be guaranteed for future societies. Overall, I think everyone can be satisfied with this draft law because it provides a secure framework for cross-border mergers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19799	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Also 3 minutes of time limit. - She's not present. That is why the next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Karl. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that we are interrupting this debate at 3 p.m. to call for the urgent request. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19823	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Dear High House! The present government template, as has been mentioned several times, is intended to implement an EU directive, namely Directive 56/2005 on the merger of capital companies from different Member States. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] On this directive, it is to be said that little was considered a restructuring as urgent as the cross-border merger. In 1958, the competence to conclude a corresponding international contract was introduced. Since the 1980s, a directive has been used to harmonise the legal framework. Their first draft was presented in 1985. But only a new start in 2003 brought the breakthrough. The aim of the EU Directive and today's government proposal is to facilitate mergers between capital companies from different Member States. Apart from problems related to the co-determination of workers who have already been addressed several times today, there will undoubtedly also be difficult questions of conflict. Let me give you an example: Under Austrian conversion law, an increase in capital to carry out the merger must take into account the value of the parties involved. Under German law, on the other hand, a symbolic capital increase is sufficient, so that only a cold capital reduction is possible in the context of a merger. Here, of course, the following question arises: What right now determines the level of protection for minority shareholders in the cross-border merger of GmbHs in Austria and Germany? I assume, however, that such problems will not occur frequently in practice. The present matter of law enables so-called merger tourism to be achieved through a skillful choice of transfer, takeover or new legal entities. However, I believe that the number of cross-border mergers will be limited for the following reasons: These are the fiscal consequences of such a measure, as well as the fact that the mere creation of a corporate legal framework for cross-border merger does not reduce the transaction costs, or can only be reduced in a very narrow context. Finally, I should like to make the following amendment, namely the amendment of the first two...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19863	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you to table the amendment immediately after the debate on the urgent request has ended, because it is already at 3 p.m. and we want to keep the time. [[In the case of the ÖVP for the Abg, leaving the speaker's seat. Dr. Karl.]] I am now interrupting the negotiations which are now under way so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. [[15:00:37]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues, on the strict application of the rule of law to prevent the progressive Islamisation and the associated terrorist threat instead of the establishment of a police and surveillance state (309/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19905	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 309/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19971	I give the floor to Mr Klubobmann Strache as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e19993	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The urgent request made today by us deals with developments that cannot be denied in Austria, developments that we have warned of almost 20 years ago. We have already acted as a warner in the political landscape at the time and have criticized and warned against the fact that a missing and wrong immigration policy, this uncontrolled immigration policy in Austria will have to create problems, because this quantitatively large number of immigrants will simply not be able to cope with this – even if one does not pay attention to what a person has, what a quality someone brings, to what extent he is capable of being integrated, yes, integrative. Unfortunately, all of this has not been taken into account. We were warners in the political desert of Austria, and all of us have criticized it. In this House too, we have been criticized by all the other political competitors, which is all for nonsense, has been said of the benefits that all this brings to us and which enrichments will arise there et cetera. I don't want to go into it in detail now, but that's how it was. The developments, not only in recent weeks, but also in the past two decades, but above all in recent weeks, even since the arrest of the Islamists in Austria, have unfortunately given us the right. They have clearly shown us that the multicultural experiment, which has been deliberately forced by some political forces and is still being operated, has basically failed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] And there are, of course, still political competitors, no questions that believe that unbridled immigration is something that brings benefits. I know we find such advocates in you, no question. [[towards Greens]] But this is grossly negligent and unresponsible, and it also recognises and rightly criticizes more and more Austrians. I say to you that, instead of the much-conjured multicultural society, parallel societies and counterparts exist today. Not only in Austria, throughout Europe, throughout the European Union, this is the case that parallel societies have been created, partly even supported by the politically responsible with subsidies, that counterparts exist and unfortunately we have to experience social, cultural conflicts. Samuel Huntington wrote about it in his book “Battle of Cultures”, it was foreseeing, just as we foresaw that this must happen in such a wrong policy, unfortunately, because one did not want to hear and did not take the critics seriously. Especially in the area of Muslim immigrants – unfortunately you have to hold on to this – integration has failed. It has been missed in many parts. This is not only what we are saying, but also Turkish-born Europeans, such as Necla Kelek, whose quotations can also be proved. She said that developments are taking place that are simply negative. I quote them: Islam is politics and religion at the same time, it determines everyday life, thinking and action. There is a cross-border phenomenon. Unlike Greeks, Italians and Portugueses, it is unfortunately that it is a problem that Muslim groups distinguish themselves. - Quote. Say: It expresses that there is often no will for integration, there is no willingness to integrate. Kelek does not apply to lack of integration for social reasons or experience in discrimination. I quote them again: I see the cultural difference rather than the socio-economic difference. The parents deliberately limit their children, from a small age. Mercedes is bought, houses are built, even in Turkey, tickets for the whole family are financed, but a school trip for the daughter or a German course can and does not want to afford, says Necla Kelek. And for those, all this proves that more than 50 percent of Muslim immigrants who have come to Europe are not integrative. As I said, it is a Turkish-born German who has held this – in addition to many other celebrities in Germany, also Turkish-triggers, who note this very critically. And that's something you must take very seriously. We also do not forget the arrested Islamists in Austria, whose families have been migrants. They have grown up here, they should have been integrated, they are Austrian citizens. These problems concern, as it were, second generation migrants, problems which we have to face not only here but in Europe as a whole. It is also not at the educational level of the terrorists in England: These were highly educated academics, who then became terroristally active. That is, even in areas where integration has worked, symbolically and externally, with language, with education, with social status in society, we see that terrorism is being lived. We must do this and we should also work on it. All this shows that there are problems here that have been underestimated until now. These people grow up with us, partly in the second, third generation, but are raised in the structures and traditions of the respective country of origin. These are also the reasons for this parallel society. We see that because of this handling a value conflict is partially preprogrammed. And especially in this second, third generation, hate-sprayers also notice in Austria, who have the idea that the Jihad, namely the Holy War, is something that can also be propagated in Austria. They are Islamic Hasspredigers throughout Austria documented by the Federal Constitutional Protection for Combating Terrorism, documented by the Defense Office. This has been documented for years and has also been played to the competent ministry, you know for years now, you have been watching this and finding out that there are misdevelopments here, but unfortunately God has not yet been declared these preachers, although you know for years that there are some in Austria. Of course, this happens on fertile ground when these people notice that with Islamism, with sermons in the direction of sacred war, with sermons that Sharia is to be placed over our law, preaching that we must not adhere to our laws and constitution, but only to the Koran, the only law to which their Muslim fellow citizens and believers who listen to the sermon do not encounter any resistance that all this goes through, that one sees that one does not become active, and that is, of course, a reason for this development to prevail. There must be action and democracy must also be defensive in this question and say: Whoever is not willing to comply with our laws, our constitution, who calls for not complying with and breaking these laws, who stands for the holy war and preaches who puts the Sharia over our law and order of values, must be shown the boundaries! We must act there, we must not watch! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I expressly say: Islam is not an opponent of us! No, no, no, He deserves our appreciation, our respect, he is a world religion – but there is Islamism! There are radical elements, unfortunately, which are not only made up of a few citizens, but which are wide-ranging, not only in Europe but also in the Islamic world, but also in organizations. We must fight this Islamism! On the other hand, we have to take care of it accordingly. Integration is important! But this is also a debt of people who want to come to us and live with us on a permanent basis. You can't just say, I come here and I want to stay here, but I don't want to contribute to that! The one who has come to us and wants to live with us for a long time also has a bearer's debt. Unfortunately, we have to find out that we have to find a growing potential for violence in our society, religious education problems in our society, preachers of hatred, the execution of forced pangs, the murder of honors, the threats of honor, the restrictions on women in our society, the suppression of women in Austria, our society and the lack of democratic understanding of God. That's reality! To deny that would be negligent. It would be negligent to talk about it or to try to criminalize those who show it. That would not bring us forward in this important debate either. Islamism as a whole is one of the greatest threats to us today. I am therefore saying this in this clarity, because behind Islamism is the idea of a totalitarian legal and social system, because there is ultimately the danger that it will be the fascism of the 21st century. ==References== [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] And that is exactly what we need to note in a critical way. I know if Henryk M. Broder or others say something about this area, you're probably going to react exactly as excitedly as I know. That's your reflex, that's the "strache phobia" you have. I understand. It's not easy for you to do that. But we will address these problems and we will not be taken away from them by you either. Islamism sees the world as a war scene. He defines that as well. He sees it as a war scene until the world has become Islamic. That is how Islamism defines itself! [[Abg. Oils:... sports practice!]] And in many places of the Qur'an there are also justifications for violence against other believers: They are of death, standing in Suren, shall be subjected, and shall be driven out and expropriated, and shall stand in it, so to speak, be devoted to Jihad against other believers and non-believers. Unfortunately, these are things that one has to deal with, because only then will it be understood why it will be possible to develop radicalisation in this area, so to speak. [[Abg. Oillinger: Are you bringing us the Qur'an?]] These people are ultimately radicalized by hate preachers. Unfortunately, this inconsistency of God is also taking place in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, Hassprediger, there are!]] We must therefore ensure that this is put in place, and we must face it. For years, Hassprediger has been approved in Austria. [[Abg. Oils: In the political field!]] This is an accusation that I must also address to the Federal Government: Why did you not become active there years ago and let these rulers continue to preach? Why did you let that happen? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] All in all, radicalism must be opposed to, in all its treasures, whether it is political radicalism, whether it is religious fanaticism. All over the world, fanaticism has to be opposed to where it undermines our laws, our constitutional laws, threatens our liberal-democratic society, and ultimately wants to replace it with something totalitarian. That is where we have to take action! But there is no way to hide behind a religious community – as an Islamist who tries to do so. [[Abg. Oillingers: Not even behind the youth!]] You probably have to fix that too! That's a free society. And we want to continue to maintain this free society for ourselves. We don't want us marching toward totalitarianism. We also want to maintain our order of values, and that is a European system of values. Our European evening country is not only made up of Christianity – I can say that too! There's a lot, much more. The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Heinz Fischer, has also put this to the fore by saying that, of course, the European evening country with Christianity, Enlightenment and humanism is his value today. Dr. Fischer also meant that if you stick to it, you would be superior to others altogether. That's an interesting statement he made. We can also share this opinion. We are proud of our order of values. We do not want to throw our order of values overboard and live a misinterpreted tolerance towards groups that meet us with complete intolerance. And that's exactly the point! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In principle, I would like to maintain the following: Of course, the Islamic community in Austria deserves recognition. It has 3 500 members; it must also be emphasized. In reality, it is an association with 3 500 members, a community of 3 500 members who claim to represent 400,000 believers, even though it contradicts itself in its own definition and in its own legal foundations, because it excludes Mos-lems from becoming a member of the Islamic community in Austria at all. In fact, Shiites and Alevites are not allowed to become a member there. That's very interesting! In part, however, they act as if they were a creed of all Muslims. So that's what you have to critically question. It's not like that! There are many different currents, many different directions, as well as in Christianity, where not a church represents all Christianity. There are also contrasts, different religious communities – and so is Islam! It's a good idea to evaluate that too. Of course, it does not need mosques and minarettes to exercise freedom of religion in Austria. This is not necessarily necessary to ensure freedom of religion. I very much welcome the fact that a social-democratic MP has now supported our path and expressed its support for the fact that Spittal is not to be involved in such a project. This is gratifying because it shows that one is also thinking about it – not all but at least a few – and is taking the opinion of the public on these issues very seriously. That's a way in the right direction! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is also about the fact that, when one speaks of tolerance, one has to establish that not only small marginal groups and marginal personalities have taken interesting things into the mouth from the diction. For example, Prime Minister Erdogan, who is not a representative of a small marginal group but a Prime Minister in Turkey, said: “The mosques are our barracks, the minarette our bayonet, the dome our helmets and the faithful our soldiers.” That's something I already have to think about. [[Abg. Oillinger: What did you say 15 years ago?]] This is a thought that exists with many, and we need to critically question it. Prime Minister Erdogan also said: “Democracy is just the train on which we ascend until we reach the goal.” What does that mean? - That's something that's causing us concern. And it also makes us worry that you're so loose about it. We are also experiencing a development in Austria, where not a community of faith makes applications for the construction of mosques and minarets, but political-cultural associations, such as the association ATIB, for example. This is not a community of faith, but a politically active Turkish-Islamic association. This makes applications across Austria for the construction of mosques and minarets. As admitted in the self-definition, it is not, like Christianity or Judaism, spiritual sacraments and purely spiritual meeting points, no, since it is consciously stated that mosques are centers of political-cultural meeting, because it is obvious to many Muslims that politics, religion and legislation are inseparably linked. But that is precisely one of the problems, because there has not been any clarification as in Christianity, where, so to speak, certain totalitarian patterns of thought could be separated. This is also a point that leads to misdevelopments. And we'll show them! I don't want you to live a misinterpreted tolerance. We turn against a tolerance that does not consider it necessary to preach in German in mosques. We turn against a misunderstanded tolerance that allows Islamic hatsmen to be tolerated in our society and ignore our constitution and call for Sharia to be the only legislation. We turn against this misunderstood tolerance toward intolerants who really want to replace our society with a totalitarian legal system. And that's what's important! And when schoolbooks are available, where things – and this is detectable by the year 2006 – are given for the best, so to speak, such as: The death penalty for homosexuals and for all possible criminals is to be introduced! and: Women who use perfume and go to the public should be cursed and damned!, I wonder: What society do we live in, where such a thing has become possible at all? And I wonder if such schoolbooks still exist somewhere in Austria's schools. There is a need to ensure that the school books are applied and that they are prevented in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! Much else would be said to mention a lot more details. But one thing is very important: Every religious community in Austria – everyone without exception! – which is recognized as a religious community that wants to have a status of a public-law body, of course has the secularization, the separation of church and state to live and accept and support it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have had to experience with one of the arrested, at Mahmoud Mohamed – that was interesting to me – that he, who was not only a member of the “Islamic Youth”, was also a member of the Socialist Youth, also a proven co-organizer in demonstrations against the FPÖ. [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] That's an interesting topic we can talk about. We are making this urgent request today because we want all the legal remedies that exist today to be used at last in such a way as to combat these radical developments and to restrict these rulerships. That's what we need and we don't want a police state like George Orwell's. – That is exactly what we are talking about, and we will continue to do so, and we will not let that happen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e20200	On the issue of an opinion, the Federal Minister for the Interior spoke. Mr Platter, your speech should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e20221	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! Ladies and gentlemen, security policy requires a sober analysis. And it is very essential that we look at what others say about us, which international situation is given and how we are assessed. [[Abg. Kickl: Tell Mr Pröll!]] It has rated an international institute in Lausanne 55 industrial states worldwide, and we are first. We're World Security Champions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Which institute in Lausanne? There are 81 institutes in Lausanne!]] [[Abg. Street: 40,000 downfalls more than last year!]] This is not what we say about ourselves, but it says an international institute that works with 50 institutes worldwide. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Which institute? What's the name of the institute?]] I am glad that excellent security work is being done in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: Which institute?]] [[Abg. Street: 40,000 collapses more than last year!]] I know you're upset, the greens and the FPÖ. The truth is that we are so excellent that we live in a country where the security standard is so high. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Security is a central element for the population. Security is also a central element for Austria's economic location. And security is particularly important for our tourism country Austria. [[Abg. Street: 40,000 more collapses!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you have responded, I can continue! [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ.]] A key element in the area of security policy is foreign law. We have all agreed on a package of foreign rights in 2005. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Not all together!]] It is a strict foreign law package, where consistent action is being taken. We have decided on a package of foreign rights which, of course, gives all the protection and assistance needed, but on the other hand we do not tolerate abuse. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Absolutely not!]] I now come to the facts and facts. – Estimated parliamentarians, you always use figures from the past in the public. It is now true that from 2005 to 2006, we had 40.6 percent fewer asylum applications. [[Abg. Sburny: What does that have to do with security? Unbelievable!]] To say it exactly: In 2005, there were 22 461 asylum applications and in 2006 there were 13,349 asylum applications, which is 40.6 percent less. In the observation period of the first eight months of 2007, we again had a 10 percent decrease compared to 2006. I believe that we are going a good and proper way to help those who need it, and if we act consistently when it comes to abuse. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: You should finally eliminate the abuse!]] I admit that we have a problem in a wide range of areas with regard to the removal of the backpack. We've made the trend change for the first time this year. It is true that at the end of 2006, we had exactly 39 743 open procedures, and in August 2007 it was 33 943. This means that within eight months we have completed 5 800 open procedures. That's what you'll see that good work is being done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The next and important point is: faster procedures. – I am glad that we agreed in the coalition that we are installing our own asylum court. I hope that Parliament's decision-making will take place this year so that this asylum court can operate operationally in the middle of the next year so that the procedures can be handled quickly so that, in principle, after the second instance, the procedures are completed so that asylum procedures can be completed by one year at the latest. That is good for the Republic of Austria, and that is good and important for those concerned so that they know what they are doing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Strache, I have looked at all your contributions to the debate very well, where you have also said, among other things, that we in Austria have a migration of 50 000 people per year. This is wrong, Mr President. We had 62 percent less immigration in 2006 than in the comparison period 2005. They seem to have some figures from the past and not from the present. Again: We had 62 percent less immigration in 2006 than in 2005. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: 50,000 immigrants! That's what the study says! You don't know your own study! The last study of the Ministry of the Interior was that!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, because you write in your urgent request that there would have been a wrong immigration policy in recent years, I would like to remind you: You agreed! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] The FPÖ has agreed! And I can tell you: Good thing you agreed, because it's a good and excellent law that brings us in the right direction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: That is why we have separated ourselves from Mr Haider and these rulers because they have pursued this wrong policy! That was why we separated ourselves from Haider and Westenthal!]] Don't be child-moving! We need a very consistent security policy, even with the necessary hardness! [[Abg. You're perfectly right about that!]] What we don't need is blue-eyeness. And whatever we don't need, ladies and gentlemen, is panic and hysteria. For me as Minister of the Interior, it is quite clear: pragmatic hardness and realism, instead of looking away and incitement, ladies and gentlemen. Especially when it comes to integration policy, ladies and gentlemen, we need a very sober and a very pragmatic approach to ensure that it works in the end. However, we must note, ladies and gentlemen, that we must not allow tolerance to apply to religiously motivated violence. I hope we agree. It's clear: If you live your religion peacefully, you will find the room for it. But if we attack our democratic social order, we must not do so unpunished. These positions are also clear and clear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, if you look at the 2007 Constitutional Protection Report, you will find that there are also trends in radicalisation and recruitment in Austria. This development is not limited to Austria alone, but this development exists in the various countries of the European Union. It is clear that, as I have said more often, we are not a primary terrorist target, but we are not an island of the Blessed, and it would be wrong to believe that Austrian security policy can be seen separately from international trends. That is why it is, of course, necessary to put in place appropriate measures, whatever we do. When I look at the problem of El Kaida, we note – this is an international trend – that the El Kaida is developing from an attack organization towards a strategic network, which is partly also a virus. And we must try to fight this network together. I am actually pleased about that, and I would have liked to have liked the FPÖ to have also applauded that we were recently able to carry out this arrest of the terrorist suspects. This has shown that we must be vigilant! I warn you that everything is impoverished and I warn you not to bother. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bitch.]] [[Abg. That's where you get an applause!]] [[Abg. Oils: Who's doing that?- Oh, my God!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the next point: It is clear that we must also give the executive the opportunity to combat terrorist associations and fight organised crime. We must be able to keep up with the crimes – that is particularly important to me! [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: You can do that! You really do!]] The criminals use the state-of-the-art technology. The Internet is a popular platform in the field of crime, especially organised crime, and therefore the Internet must not be a criminal space, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Mr. Minister, you know very well..., there is only something to be done! I don't need to tighten up the... empowerment!]] And if you, Mr Strache, are talking about a pointless demand when I say we need online searches with the help of “Trojans”, I say to you: I agree, but don't ever go back to the mouth again, that you're a security party! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. We are a security and freedom party!]] – Never go back to the mouth again that you are a security party! Of course it is: When making phone calls, we installed the phone monitoring. Of course it is: If the Internet is used for crime, for criminalistic forms, we must give the executive the opportunity to perform online searches so that you have access to a hard disk so that you can fully assess these networks – of course, under clear conditions, of course! [[Abg. Strache:... had been inactive for years, ignored the protocols of hate preachers for years!]] We confess to judicial order and, of course, to legal protection, and there must be a concrete suspicion of action or appropriate preparatory action. I am glad that Minister Berger sees these things the same way, but I note that the Freedom Party is certainly not a security party. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. They want to apprehend the unspoiled citizens in order to control their political attitude!]] After listening to the debate over the last few days, I would like to make one further point: Ladies and gentlemen! All surveillance measures shall be subject to strict compliance with the applicable legislation, the required proportionality and compliance with fundamental rights. Now, finally, for integration: Of course, it is true that we must give all those who do not live long in Austria appropriate opportunities in the area of integration. It is necessary and I therefore expressly support the fact that, in connection with these efforts by the Islamic community, there is a responsible role to play. A broad social approach is needed to promote the co-existence and integration of the various groups of the population in Austria. [[Abg. Rosary: Now, 15 years after that!]] – But what we don't want is polarization, because it only creates a radicalization. That is why we will simply not support this path that some are taking. [[Abg. Stache: Do not confuse cause and effect, Minister! Do not confuse cause and effect!]] [[Abg. Rosary: Now the integration begins...?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Street: 20 years too late!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore appeal to you that when we start the debate on integration, this is very serious and is being conducted. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And whoever is serious, determines the ÖVP!]] In all cases, this area of integration has deserved to be discussed very objectively. – I am convinced that together we show a reasonable way that we can create opportunities and take measures so that we can move forward one step in the area of integration. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to conclude Caritas Director DDr. Citing Michael Landau, who says: “Of course, something can and must also be demanded of migrants: Fundamental rights such as freedom of religion, the rule of law, respect between the sexes, all of which must be committed. It is about keeping a ‘common house order’.’ That means not only promoting but, of course, we must also demand. It is very well formulated, I fully share this view: Whoever does not accept our legal order has lost nothing in us. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day a clear expectation of me, but I think we must all have: Those who live in Austria must identify with our legal order. That is, a yes to our country, that is, a yes to our legal order, and that is, a yes to our values and to our language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e20711	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The first speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e20738	Madam President. Minister! High house! Mr Minister, you said in your first sentence that security policy needs a sober analysis, and in the second sentence you said that Austria is “safety world champion”. – I mean, it can’t really be at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's where the chickens laugh!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] All topics are serious, but this is a very serious issue, because it really decides whether this Austria, as it has existed for centuries, continues to exist or not – that is the problem. You don't make politics, you make staging: What comes out last in the result is only interesting for you in second line. I've known this for a long time with you – this is a sober analysis. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Since the early nineties we have experienced a massive wave of immigration, which, however, has never been called and declared. This was a hidden and hidden immigration, so that we now have 1.3 million people in the country who were not born in Austria, which is at least 13 percent. I would like to stress once again: All of this has happened over the past 15 years, without public debate, without an honest presentation of your goals and plans, without any sober analysis and without political discussion. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Without careful analysis!]] [[Abg. Reheis: Exploitation of foreign workers.]] [[Abg. Strache: Yes, that also happens!]] Of course, the lines were set for this. Such a thing does not break into a state like a natural event, but it must be allowed to do so. Of course, it was crucial for this to happen, on the one hand, the asylum legislation in which immigration was staged under the title of asylum law and under complete circulation of its original meaning. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Asylum is protection on time, that's quite clear. – When, in the early 1990s, people from the war zones in the Balkans came to us legitimately, one should have clearly seen and determined this from the outset: As long as there are reasons for escape, we give protection, and then they will return. – Instead, one has repeatedly extended the stays, and then, after eight years, one has said quite clearly: So now they're here for eight years, and now we're burgers. This is also what I blamed the head of the state of Lower Austria, although I have recently been strongly criticized by the man with the fine blade, Karner. He could have said, of course: They're still in the country? In the Balkans there is deepest peace. You should go home.Instead, he said: They've been there for eight years, so I'm going to be a citizen. – This is not what design in politics actually means. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, this has been done by the family estate, and this has been decided here in 1991, I believe. This clearly made the guest worker an immigrant. And again and again this was totally hidden and actually hidden by officially presenting quotas and applying them medially, which were in no way connected with de facto immigration in any way. Last year, or I think that was 2005: 60 000 people de facto immigration, about 7 000 people quota. – Of course there’s an evil intention behind that. And now, with the right to stay, the process is being completed so to speak: Whoever is only long enough in the country, wreaks under what title, then gets a right to stay. [[Abg. Street: All bodies: first rejection, second rejection...!]] And I would like to bet a lot that your project, namely to define certain criteria, is a first step towards institutionalisation. I'm telling you, that's probably going to be what you're going to do, and you're not gonna be able to meet your original position. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Well, a hundred percent!]] Höhnisch is then always claimed – and that is precisely what you say by the Greens – that Austria is de facto an immigration country. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: All right! That's it!]] – A very clear word: Whether a state is a country of immigration is determined not by the number of foreign nationals living in its territory, but by whether a state is actively advocating immigration. A state is not becoming a country of immigration by facts, but by political decision! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You seem to have made this political decision somewhere, but here in Parliament you never discussed it and never gave the Austrians pure wine. This massive immigration was accompanied by a political debate which should enable it to: On the one hand, you have heard again and again – forever!, for ten or twelve years – we urgently need someone who pays our pensions. [[Abg. Street: Yes, the checkouts are overcrowded today!]] Everyone with a bit of a house mind could naturally think that this does not work, but that the opposite would be true, because we are burdening the social state over the dimensions and that immigration does not support the social state but destroys it. The second point was that we urgently need labour – that is to blame you for social democracy. It has been your original clientele who has experienced this misdevelopment as the first really painful in his own body. The population in the municipal buildings of the conurbation centres knows for a long time that integration does not work well. There you could have asked, then you wouldn't have to start an integration debate now, 15 years later. Moreover, today he says it, I believe, to the press agencies; that was also quite clear – says Frattini, 85 percent of those who come to the country do not have a qualification with which they have a chance on the labour market. For the 15 percent – I speak to you again – which they may need to have very cheap labour, you buy 85 percent, which will be exclusively on the social state's pocket. – That’s absolutely no policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And the warnings about security, you've always hit the wind. And now, where things are actually on the table, where you can no longer hide them, you still refuse to set the diagnosis without prejudice – i.e. not politically correct, but without prejudice – either/or. [[Abg. Oillinger: What's at the table?- Oh, my God!]] They try to benefit from it for the projects you are planning, and some of them hide their own actions here – these are those that are currently in the election campaign. For example, the head of state of Lower Austria, who on the one hand – he still diletates a little bit in right-wing populism – called minarette as “art-of-art” but on the other hand has given him an opinion of the state government – the official directly, that is the department of local imaging care – already given the green light for the mosque building in Bad Vöslau. – There is also that. [[Call the FPÖ:typical hypocrisy!]] [[Abg. Blow: Shrew! This is the hypocrisy of the ÖVP!]] The diagnosis: Now we are talking about the need to integrate and make offers, and it is playing a very strong role in a social problem. - Don't cheat! That's not the case! Because those who really slide into terrorism – in England they call the “home-grow terrorism”, – are second and third generation members, people who consciously reideologise themselves, who ask themselves the question where they want to belong and then take a party for the Islamic world. They are usually best integrated – for example, those in England: They have studied at the Technical University, played Cricket; it is typically a middle layer phenomenon. – Falses Therefore, you do not and above all do not insist on the lack of willingness of the Austrians to provide too little social assistance and too little integration. That is certainly not the problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The second is – I am very close to the point of online search – now you have a massive security problem that you have caused by the unlimited immigration you have taken, and you are now trying to make a symptom fight against civil rights, freedom rights, fundamental rights, so to speak. As members of the Freedom Party, which emerged from the 1848 Freedom Movement, allow me to say: This is not the solution to treat the unspoiled citizens with measures to get under control the results of immigration, which you have approved and promoted yourself. We do not want to do that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: First create the problem and then cut down the rights of freedom!]] – I can already imagine that this is a misunderstanding with you; we have a clear concept of freedom and, above all, we do not see it in the conflict with security. What to do is quite clear: It has not been possible to integrate the number of foreigners who are now, that is, first of all, to try to stop immigration in order to make things right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Secondly, If you are in the country without a sincere residence permit, you have to leave the country – even that does not happen enough. And thirdly, Those who have a legal residence permit or have already acquired citizenship shall be subject to the following conditions: Our rules apply to all. – By the way, I wonder how easily you on your side, for example, accept the lack of gender equality. [[towards SPÖ]] For example, I would not want to allow separate conditions in public space to exist by sex: It is impossible for a girl to be logged off from swimming lessons at a public school. That's where you've got to sit! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We are ready to take things seriously! We will always give you the clues, and I am convinced that you will eventually follow our proposals – and you will be well advised by them.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e20997	The next speaker is Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Cap. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e21018	High house! Madam President. Minister! A little late came the turn to support our demand for an asylum court; we have called for this for years. There is again a thick backpack of unfinished asylum applications, and we have always asked him to do so because the establishment of an asylum court is faster. And that, I believe, is a very important contribution to greater democracy so that applicants can come to their feet and ultimately also to combating illegality and crime. – Why this has taken so long, only you will be able to explain. Mrs Rosenkranz has just said that this would not be a problem for us as far as the role of women is concerned, exemplified in Islam. – I tell you, this is worth a discussion, and it is a pity that you can only get this right here today. I believe that we should discuss this more widely: the question of Islam, Islamism, the often wanted mix of both terms, the question of political Islam, social Islam – this should really be debated in depth. It is not indifferent to us what role the woman has there, just as it does not indifferent to us what role the woman has in Christianity or in the Catholic Church – whether women dress offices, can be priests or not. It's not indifferent to us! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: It's about circumcision, forced ewes and the like!]] These are patriarchal interpretations, which also exist in Islam. And here I quote a contribution from the “taz ” of the 1st century. September, written by Claudia Pinl, quoted by Ms. Hiltrud Schröter – both social scientists, the latter also theologian. She says: “The provision for women’s housing according to Koransure 33:59, Schröter reads in folly, not as a gratifying religious command, but as an ‘archaic convention’ to ‘retain the morality’. Since women are not granted autonomy in terms of sexuality and reproduction, their ‘reize’ must be concealed from men’s omnipresent sexual drive. Otherwise, sexual assaults and loss of honor are threatening. This is less about the honor of the wife than that of the ‘damaged’ husband and the family whose honor is to hand her virginally into the husband’s hands’ for the sake of the marriage contract and how it is done. And I'll tell you: No one accepts that! And I say, Whoever wants to live here in Austria has to comply with and accept the laws and the basic law of this country. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] However, equal equality of opportunity between men and women also means respect for compulsory schooling, does not mean withdrawal from gymnastics and means that if a young Muslim says he does not want to be taught by a woman, that is not to be accepted! This is a perfectly clear matter. - Yes! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and FPÖ.]] [[Abg. - Well, let's stop her!]] The difference is the: I now refer to the basic law, I appeal to the school laws, but I also oppose making politics in the sense of a polarizing policy. I'm against it, you have to be careful! – This is also a religious community, which has been recognized since 1912, which of course should have its possibilities here as well as the other religious communities. If we do not want to speak German from abroad who cannot speak German, we see that in Austria preachers and Imame are trained who speak German. [[Abg. Yeah!]] This is not a problem, but one can try to do that, so that in the end a reference to our system of values and to our legal system is guaranteed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is this also the case of Mr Al-Rawi?]] I believe that this should be discussed in a reasonable tone. The sound makes the music. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I welcome the fact that there are many, many – for example, in the field of social and health care – who are born in Turkey and who are working here who pay their taxes. That is why I do not yet have to be in favour of Turkey's accession to the European Union. [[Abg. That's right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] I can justify this normally politically. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What does the One say about it? Have you already explained this to the one?]] That's why you're not anti-Turkish, so you're not against those who make their contribution here. It's supposed to be a normal discussion. That is exactly how we should discuss this question here. Of course, no respect, no grace, for those who are for terror. But I am against the equation that a religious community already lays the root of terror. This is not to be read out of Islam. However, there are interpretations of the Islamists who do so on political grounds – however justified. They are naturally to fight with the hardness of the law and with the police, with the executive, with the courts, where they are caught and where they are held. But that is something quite different from the question of freedom of religion. Nevertheless, there must also be a discussion about social Islam. What I don't want is that there's a religious interpretation that tells me almost how to live. This cannot be accepted and therefore I am particularly sensitive in respect of respect and respect for the basic laws and laws. [[Abg. Dr. Een: With no religion!]] This concerns everyone. Now I'm saying something because you mentioned mosques and minarettes earlier. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Bravo! Now it's coming!]] There are five of them in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung” (Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung). "The Minarett is a symbol of rule" by this social scientist Necla Kelek, who was quoted today. It is then said, among other things, that mosques are not sacred buildings such as churches and synagogues even after Muslim reading. It is said more or less that this is the center of a counter-company. – If it is a sacrament building, if it is a house of prayer, it is the subject of the natural freedom of a religious community – with dome, with minarett – to build it here. If it's the center of a counter-society, I'm against it. It's very simple, you have to differentiate here. There's no automatic. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do you determine this before? Ask the people before you go in: Are you an extremist or not?]] - No, no, your automatic system is your colleague Westenthaler, too. They're making themselves up and saying that's automatically a counter-company. [[Abg. Strache: Not in the area, I am exceptionally the opinion of the Greens!]] This is automatically the ground for terrorism, which is automatically associated with hate preachers, which is automatically associated with Islamism. What I'm appealing for is that there must be a differentiated discussion about it. That's very, very essential. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If the discussion – for which I really plead – is not differentiated here when playing with emotions when polarized, I tell you, then you are working in the hands of those who really want all Muslims to be veiled, who also want all Muslims to wear a Chad or a headcloth. Then work in the hands of those who actually speak the word to a political, up to even violent Islam. We do not want to do that, but we want it to come to a modern interpretation, based on our fundamental rights, in the context of freedom of religion with us in our democracy, integrity and also in our willingness to learn the German language. But we all have to go along with that, and we all have to pull one strand together, and then we can't put each other on something. [[Abg. Strache: But your integration policy has not been there in the last decades!]] In my opinion, that would not be right, and I believe that on this basis you can really work it out. Another last word – no last word, my time has expired... [[The red lamb on the speaker's mouth shines.]] But one last sentence regarding the Sharia: Of course, that is also said. Here in this article, which is part of the Cologne discussion on mosque construction, is also said – I believe by Ralph Giordano – the Sharia is a barrier, an obstacle to truly modernizing Islam. No one wants her. The advanced Muslims don't want them, and we can't want them either. The Sharia cannot be put through our law, nor can it be accepted. My appeal: a discussion. The population is interested in it. I also know because of my political work that there is interest. [[Abg. Strache: The government must implement this!]] We should be responsible for this, on the basis of our order of values and on the basis of our basic laws.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e21253	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. 8 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e21290	Madam President. Federal Minister! I can share a lot of things Josef Cap just said. – Yes, it’s about our order of values, it’s about our basic laws, but it’s also very clear that we’re making instruments available to the Ministry of the Interior so that appropriate monitoring can take place here. I would like to begin by expressing a great compliment to you, Mr Minister, and to your authorities, for the uptake of these three suspected Islamists. [[Abg. Oils: There are only two more!]] Here has been quite compact and serious worked, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is beneficial and I can still remember the debates – for example, on the subject of major noise attacks – here in this House. [[Abg. May. Worm: Me too!]] It is reassuring that precisely these instruments have helped to make these attacks accordingly. For us, for the ÖVP, if you, Minister of the Interior, feel that, after a mature examination, you need more instruments: Of course we make them available. The fact that there are these other instruments is quite clear, Mr President. [[Abg. Strache: Then we do everything automatically! Then we automatically hop into an authoritarian police state!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] Mr Strache, that is the difference to you. This is the difference to you, Mr Strache: They are an announcement giant and an implementation dwarf. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. You don't do anything!]] Whenever it goes hard, Mr. Strache, you will weaken. You are weakening, Mr. Strache. [[Abg. You're just talking about the hot bridle and don't do anything! That's your problem!]] You have a big mouthpiece and soft knees when it's really about the things it has to do. When I look at your request, Mr. Strache, you have a fear scenario here. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Read, don't look!]] [[Abg. Strache: Please, we know that this scene is just under observation and under control! They do nothing but do nothing about the resources at their disposal! The security party ÖVP!]] Then you say that “the prominent attempt of the Minister of the Interior by means of fear scenarios” and possible measures that must now naturally follow and also the discussion of these measures should be opposed. - But you're against it. What are you afraid of? Before an online investigation, if it is legally secured? Mr. colleague, we are moving very clearly in the direction... – No, no, when it comes to providing the police with the appropriate instruments, you are no longer there. [[Abg. Street: Criminalize drivers!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: do something!]] [[Abg. You need 20 years, Mr. Missethon! 20 years the ÖVP needed!]] That's the problem. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: How do you do this with the online investigation?]] [[Abg. Street: After 20 years – a late awakening!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: With what “Trojans” will you verify equality between men and women?]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I want to connect to Josef Cap now. I think the situation here in Austria has changed fundamentally for 14 days. I am very glad that we are talking about having a problem here – a problem in living together, that is quite clearly to be said. I am glad that we are now discussing our values openly about Islam, about living together, about conditions of integration. I think that's very important. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] Yes, we did not need you there, Mr. Strache. It's important that we talk today: Does that fit in with us, with our basic democratic understandings? Does that fit with us if this equality between man and woman is lived in such a way that we are obviously living it – what you see in newspapers. I think this is important that many people now come to speak – politicians, experts, the affected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rosary.]] I think this discussion is important and I also say clearly: For us this is the beginning of the debate and not the end. I think this is quite necessary for us to discuss this question, Mr Strache. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Rosary: Do it!]] [[Abg. You can do it!]] I think it is an important difference which the Minister of the Interior has made, namely to distinguish between immigration, asylum and integration. These are three different processes that we have to design. The first question: Asylum. Austria will, of course, be available to people who need protection. That's not a question at all. But we won't be available to people who don't need this protection. On the question of immigration, I also say very clearly: That's where we need to rethink, and there must be a paradigm change. We need to get the ones we need and less the ones we need. The third point, that is the question of integration, is that I personally have a very clear attitude. Integration means learning our game rules for me. And that's at least once a achievement that those who come to us have to do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What is a game rule?]] [[Abg. Rosary: Why do you have advertising brochures on Turkish?]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Don't talk about it, act!]] I also have a very clear attitude on the question of immigration. If someone came to us, I would have liked to talk about the duties before we talk about the rights. For me, there are three central obligations to learn first German, to work second, and thirdly to include ourselves in our order of life, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. You're a mule! You're talking about things you don't live! You say something you don't implement!]] In my view, these are the crucial points that we will have to make in the future. [[Abg. Don't talk, do something, Mr. Missethon!]] Mr Strache, that does not help us right now. You're too far out there. Hitzen alone does not help us solve the problem, Mr Strache. I say this very openly to you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You represent only a minority in the ÖVP!]] I think we have to look at exactly where the problems are. I think if we look closely, then we must find that we have a special case in Vienna. [[Abg. Street: You forget the other problem fields in Austria: Linz, Innsbruck, Telfs, Feldbach, Bad Vöslau!]] In Vienna, the situation has become quite, quite difficult due to irregular immigration. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Lower Austria!]] You have to say that quite openly. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Graz too!]] In Vienna, ghettos have formed to a relatively large extent. [[Abg. Street: Graz!]] We did not succeed in creating an orderly immigration in Vienna. Many Viennans have moved away from the Grätzln. Maybe you should talk to them once. They may tell you things, how they work here, too, within the Muslim communities. [[Abg. Parnigoni: ÖVP Mayor Nagl!]] In Vienna, we have overshadowed the labour market. In Vienna we now have major problems with the education system, because we have more than 50 percent children with migration background here in compulsory schools. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Graz!]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think left ignorance is just as dangerous in this regard as right hetze. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: So what it needs is such a backboneless ÖVP, which is nowhere standing, that wanders around and does nothing!]] – What it takes is a good middle path, Mr. Strache, a cool head. And I believe that the platform for integration and security, which is God's thanks to the Minister of the Interior, is a first important step. If – I already value it – there are people there who are practically confronted with everyday life. I would not like to see only people talking about integration and not living in the neighborhoods – the “great” experts. [[Calls and calls between FPÖ and SPÖ MPs.]] It is important to me that it is a healthy mixture between experts and practitioners, a healthy mixture between those who theoretically deal with it and those who live with it every day. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's where ÖVP exudes as a discussion partner!]] [[Abg. Strache: This is where ÖVP exudes as a discussion partner!]] Then, I think, we have a very concrete and good chance that we can solve these problems too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e21777	The next speaker is Mr Van der Bellen. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e21798	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! After an hour, I still don't know what I recognize a so-called Islamist. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: In the treatment of women!]] But it has confirmed to me the impression that I would very well be able to recognize a “strachist”. A “strachist” is someone who just a few years ago called foreigners without any differentiation as a disease. I do not know whether all colleagues in the House know the quote, the comparison of foreigners with the foot-and-mouth disease, which – how was it? – if they have work, mouth and if they have no work, they steal. – This is an original quote of strache. [[Abg. Strache: I didn’t use the term “foreigner”! Stay with the truth! I didn’t use the term “foreigner”! You say the untruth when you open your mouth!]] A “strachist” supports an election campaign in which “Daham instead of Islam” is promoted – in my opinion a clear attack on freedom of religion and religious peace in Austria. [[Abg. That's what we're standing for!]] And today – without you saying that so explicitly – you have to have the impression that you consider 400 000 Muslims in Austria to be a security risk. [[Abg. I have Mr. Schakfeh as!]] That is, I think, a mixture of persecution- crazes and the benefit of diffuse, subtle fears in the population. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And because the population has such diffuse fears, let's replace them!]] I can only condemn that, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the short term, there are a few topics on which it is worthwhile to philosophise. First of all, about terrorism and religion. I have the impression that we've gotten used to making an automatic connection here. I would just like to remind you that El Kaida is not the first terrorist organization. We've had that many times in history. Most of these organizations – as far as I can say that from the wrist – have no religious background. The RAF in Germany certainly had no religious background. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: They have a left-hand background for this!]] ETA in the Basque Country certainly has no religious background. The IRA in Ireland: Yes, she is Catholic, but no one would interpret this as a war of faith between Protestants and Catholics. The numerous literary terrorists in Russia of the 19th century By the century, my memory does not have a religious background. And the state terrorists of National Socialism – I don't know how you thought about it – I don't think there is a religious background either. The El-Qaeda people claim to have a religious background. I personally have my doubts about it. [[Abg. Strache: Even a political one! That's right!]] My hypothesis is: If you think in this way, if you are a fundamentalist of this kind, if you let yourself become acts of terror, up to the task of self, the so-called martyr-god – as long as you can only take as many people into death, that is justified – once you're on the track, then of course you're looking for a legitimation for your actions. These people believe in a certain interpretation of the Qur'an, which I personally consider inadmissible – but I am anything but a co-rankenner – to have found this legitimacy. If there had never been Muhammad, these people would have found a different legitimation with this attitude, mental attitude, conviction, as it has been in history. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: How was Savonarola?]] It is completely wrong that I find these 400 000 Muslims in Austria to be hostages. [[Abg. Strache: No, the chess takes the 400,000 hostages and separates them at the same time!]] Most of them are secularized, as are the so - called Christians. You know that very well, Mr. Strache. At all events, I am not pleased with this permanent division of eight million Austrians into religious groups. Which group is the second largest after the Catholics? - The one without a confession. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: o. b.- Oh, my God!]] Thank you, Mrs Colleague, thank you. That's what I'm part of. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Me too!]] I was born evangelical, baptized, but without religious confession. I have this constant inbox, drawer into any religious community, no matter in which religious community, full. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the course of this discussion on immigration, integration and so on – i.e. a completely legitimate discussion – the question arises: What is our role as politicians, politicians? How is dialogue with the so-called churches, religious communities and similar institutions necessary, right, appropriate? - I mean, in certain limits. We should be aware of them. This concerns all religions, ladies and gentlemen. If a representative of a religion of revelation – Christianity, Muslims, Judaism – does not pragmatically relativize the absolute claim of truth in everyday life – in the discussion with me for example – what should I discuss with him? – We did not have this problem with any Imam, but we had this problem, I find, very often with Bishop Krenn from Lower Austria, who, I think, in a very refreshing way – I mean, I do not have to deal with him personally – formulated this absolute claim of truth of his religion. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Leave the poor man alone!]] You don't need much to talk about. [[Abg. Strache: I hope that this will not be equated with terrorists now!]] What we need to talk about is: Where are the boundaries in everyday life, which symbols do we accept, we tolerate, and where do “the fun” stop – so to speak? – A question that has also been raised by Mr Cap. Where does the fun stop, where do we not have to tolerate, but rather enforce a certain power requirement? These questions arise. However, I am replying to them in a way that, I believe, differs clearly from Mr Strache and Mr Missethon. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Have you ever heard and compared a sermon about the crane and an Imam?]] Three small examples: Headcloth, minarette – and on the third I'm still coming. Headgear: I sit at the university, earlier as a examiner – unpleasant task, but it must be –, a lady with a head cloth comes, it's rare, but perhaps a sikh with turban, it might be – has never happened – an orthodox Jew with hat; I think they do not study economy. So what? – The test takes place over the Deadweight Loss in the tax, the Rican Equivalence hypothesis – but I do not want to torment you with it now. [[Abg. Wheeler: It'll take an hour otherwise!]] What someone has in mind, Mr. Strache, Mr. Missethon, is important – and not what someone has on his head, is it? [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But political symbols have lost nothing there!]] [[Calls and calls between Mr Oellinger and Mr Graf.]] You asked for a headcarve ban in universities. – I think this is completely wrong and, by the way, counterproductive and anti-female, because, apart from all other arguments, you would refrain Muslim women from studying, but you would not catch the potential terrorists, who might be doing this later and who are now studying chemistry. So, it's totally absurd. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Right!]] A word as evangelical baptist on the subject of minarette and mosques: 1648 – Western Westphalian peace, “Cuius regio, eius religio” – the religions were separated territorially after it turned out that living together was not possible at the time. After 133 years – I find it quite fleeting for Habsburg conditions – in 1781 Joseph II issued the tolerance patent with permission to build churches for the Evangelicals. – Churches, if I am quite oriented, without towers. Doesn't that seem familiar to you? Churches without towers! With – what did I figure out? – 226 years of late fall You back behind Joseph II? Mosques without minarettes, churches without towers? [[Abg. Street: We are talking about the European evening country! That's the difference! That's what we're standing for!]] The Habsburgs were really fast compared to you, Mr. Strache. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But there are cases where you really need to show the flag. That doesn't mean you're going in brutally with the police. Talk, talk, talk, seriously, the Youth Office et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then we'll talk about forced eh!]] I don't want to blow up the girls' swimming lessons. In reality, that's not the huge problem we're dealing with, but it has high symbolic content. That's what I'm saying in all clarity: Learning to swim is a right of girls, and it is the obligation of the Austrian state to guarantee this right. It is not the right of parents to register girls from swimming lessons without appropriate compensatory lessons. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: But it happens!]] I'm sorry, Mr. Strache, you don't have to tell me anything. I have held various discussions in this direction, from President Schakfeh down, and I know the situation from the schools. In conclusion: We fully support a sentence, Mr Strache, if he is serious. [[Abg. The last one!]] – No, what Mr Missethon quoted: “The attempt of the Minister of the Interior through fear scenarios to introduce total surveillance and thus to introduce glass people must be strongly opposed.” – Quotes. Welcome to the club, Mr. Strache! If you remember the year 1848, this tradition of yours! We've been there for a long time. They have always failed us in the fight against additional surveillance methods. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Abg. Strache: Conversely, that was always our liberal position!]] The FPÖ has always accompanied SPÖ and ÖVP with any additional breach of the rule of law and the violation of fundamental and freedom rights. [[Abg. Street: No, I didn't go anywhere! I have never voted in favour, Mr Van der Bellen.]] So if that's really meant to be: Nice, bravo!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22203	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Westenthaler. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22224	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In reality, it's about one thing: It is about the Austrian population having a strong need for protection – rightly due to developments in recent weeks, months and in recent years; not only beginning and, of course, mainly due to the attacks in New York, 11th century. September, but also due to the continued attacks in the London Metro in 2005, due to which God was grateful to destroyed attacks in Germany and lastly also for the first time also due to the arrests in Austria related to terror. It was Moslem extremists everywhere, Islamists who were arrested or who created the threat. Therefore, it is our duty – I say this quite pragmatically; whether it has been made out of religious motives, from traditional motives or because someone is mentally confused – to recognize the Austrians' need for protection and to put in place measures with which we promote and strengthen security in the country. That's our job. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why I do not fully understand the request, Mr Strache, with all understanding, with all understanding of freedom. [[Call to the Greens: Friendship!]] That's all right, but this request is just against contradictions! [[Abg. Strache: You don't understand a lot!]] By the way, Mr Strache, I would like to thank you very much for your reminiscence at the beginning of your remarks, when you said with great, anointing words – I was almost a bit touched – that the leadership of the FPÖ was quite on the road 20 years ago, which already showed it back then. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Dear Peter Westenthaler, you haven't been in the party leadership yet! At the age of 20 you were still a small speaker, the world was still fine!]] That's right. We, the party leadership, showed that at the time. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Jörg Haider, Peter Westenthaler, Rainer Pawkowicz, also Mr. Strache was a member at the time and participated there. That's all right, Congratulations! We already pointed this out at the time, we warned about it, no one took us seriously at the time, and today we are so far. But you have to go through this thing, too. I do not understand your request if, on the one hand, you are criticizing the Islamists and the terror from there, but on the other hand, the Austrian executive does not want to give better tools in order to clarify it better. [[Abg. She doesn't believe that! The executive has all the possibilities and has not been acting for years! The problem is inactivity!]] We are also in pursuit of better, more targeted measures in order to bring such terrorists quickly behind the castle and bars. That's really our claim. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Without “Trojans”!]] Minister! Yes, I congratulate you on the arrests. I hope they're holding. I really hope so! I'm a little surprised, however, that it took six months. It went down a little bit. Six months they have been monitored and controlled until they could be made hard at all. That's what we're talking about: There must be better methods of working, Minister. Just one, please don't: “Safety World Champion!” Let's get in there. Explain “Safety World Champion” to 57 banks and bank employees alone in Vienna, who have been robbed in the last half year! Explain They're the ones who got the apartment stolen from the car. - You can't say that. Take it back, Minister! [[Abg. Street: Plus 4 percent crime, less and less investigation, less and less officials!]] We are not World Security Masters, but we have a phase of the highest crime that needs to be fought. Here too, we are at the disposal of the BZÖ to introduce measures to combat this crime. But my favorite statement was the end of my colleague Cap. Sensational, how he's been running a slalom course today. He doesn't have it easy, I have to say inside the SPÖ, where it really goes from one extreme to the other. One of them says: For God's sake, how is it with the minarets and mosques?, and the others in Spittal agree immediately; they have decided a ban on building mosques. Only, as you have said today, Mr Cap, do you have to ‘infourate’ to the public. You split this up now and you said: There are good and evil mosques and minarettes. The good are due to – how did you say that? – religious background built and the bad ones are those who, in short, represent a symbol of power. Mr Cap, how do you know before? Now let mosques and minarette build everywhere, then stand down and look under the veils: Is that an Islamist, a radicalist or not? How do you do that? That's not to be done! Therefore, go along with us, which we do not talk, but act! – also in Carinthia! The head of the Kärntner Landesführer was the First, who said: [[Abg. Strache: He wasn't the first one in Austria!]] In my federal state, there will be no mosques and minarettes because I will not allow it on the construction order. – That’s all right, and we support it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is essentially also the request that has been made in Spittal. [[Abg. Strache: The head of state can do this for himself!]] This is the request made by the head of state of Carinthia
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22393	Mr Klubobmann, you have not made the whole request. I'm just paying attention to that. You have another opportunity to do this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22408	I'm saying, “The outcome of the negotiations is to be reported to the National Council by 31.03.08.” I would like to thank you, Madam President, for this sentence. However, Mr Cap, Mr. Hand at heart, but also ÖVP – to the discussion about minarette and mosques –: [[Abg. Ollinger: Jessas, “Hand on the Heart ”!]] What would have been going on in this country – medially, and also from you, from the Greens – if a politician had taken the word “likely” for minarette and mosques from the liberals or the BZÖ? [[Congratulations on the part of BZÖ representatives.]] What would have happened in this country? What kind of outrage would have been? – No, it was a black country captain! It can do everything in this country! So we leave the church in the village too. That's not all right. In principle, we clearly say a clear no to religious fanaticism, but also to political extremism. Mr. Cape, I am sorry, Mr. Strache, that is something I have to say to you – you are already one, that has been almost a Freud’s promise, Cape and Strache, because Mr Cap has not achieved it – and I do not know whether it is the SPÖ – to find a critical word about whatever spirits you call with such actions you put in the last few weeks. I tell you very clearly what happened in Brigittenau There were a lot of honest citizens who were worried about their environment because they were afraid of parking because they were afraid of hygiene because they were afraid of noise harassment. [[Abg. Strache: What happened in Brigittenau?]] But there were others, and you know that very well, quite others. There was also the glacial neonazi party there, and I missed Mr Cap's speech. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] I'll tell you something. Right-wing radicalism and left-wing radicalism, that is, political radicalism is no better than religious fanaticism and is therefore also rejected by us, Mr. Strache! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That, I think, should also be common sense in our country. If you want to have credible and responsible criticism of other cultures, of other religions, you can only do so, Mr Strache, if you are clean on the right side, and by the way also on the left, colleagues from the Greens. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Strache and Mr Oellinger.]] To be clean on the right and left, you can practice responsible and credible criticism. But one cannot criticize religious fanaticism and on the other hand allow right-wing extremism. That's what we're against. We strongly reject that. We would therefore propose that you act more and speak less. This request is also a very thin paper; I am actually very surprised. If you speak 20 years earlier, we have always put in motions, motions for resolutions, urgent motions which have still been substrated. [[Abg. Strache: You haven't been 20 years ago!]] This one-and-a-half-page paper has nothing in it at all, and that is also the point. They're just talking, but they can't do it. [[Abg. Strache: But you do it with 2 percent? – That you can do something with 2 percent!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] We're not talking, but we're acting like we showed it in Carinthia. We're putting it into Carinthia. This is a good example where it can work. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I see it a little different from you. I believe that, for example, the second and third generations who live here are, to a large extent, people who live modern, who are not instrumentalized at the touch of a button by any image or by any fundamentalist, but who do not want it at all. I think that's a huge chance. This is a solution competence to come into contact with and also to involve them in the fact that they are opposed to fundamentalists and to terrorism and advocate a modern, a new society, a secularized society. It's a chance. But to write in a request: “An assimilation is impossible, real integration does not work!” that’s little. Where is the solution? – You can't say it doesn't work, I put your hands in the lap. That is, I think, the wrong procedure. On the other hand, we are opposed, and therefore today we are bringing in many proposals for initiative and other proposals so that we can find a solution, namely, a solution in the fight against terrorism – a special commission of our own, Minister of the Interior – in the fight against Islam a 24-hour surveillance and, yes, increased online surveillance. We're on it. This is necessary because software is already being distributed on the Internet, which should not be decryptible in an Islamic way. The Minister of the Interior already knows them. That is why I am also in favour of using “trojans”. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you're also for Turkey's accession!]] I'll show you. Collaborator Pilz – perhaps one of the authors of such software – laughs about it. It must be fought. I can't demand more security on the one hand and say: We have a need for protection! and on the other hand we do not allow security and the executive does not give better instruments in hand. Then another thing: Religious education is also to be seen. It cannot be said that although the Republic of Austria may finance religious teachers, who are sometimes fanatics and preach here hate, at the expense of taxpayers, but who have no say and no control over these religious teachers. That is why we demand – and this will be a request today – of course a selection procedure and a control procedure so that we do not again have hateful, fundamentalists in religious education, which then also blind the boys of the second and third generations, who are not radical from birth, and perhaps draw to better terrorists. We don't want to. We want this control also of religious teaching; it is a command of the hour. It is urgently necessary because we know the examples of the haters in religious teaching. These measures, I believe, are suitable for an intrusive, but open and good discussion, as we do on the one hand integration and on the other hand fight against terrorism.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22538	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22599	Mr Vilimsky has now been spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22620	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a very interesting thing to observe this debate, from the Minister down to the other speakers. I have had the impression because so many political snakes are traveling here today, that I may be in the Austrian National Circus, but certainly not in the Austrian National Council. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Let me start with the Minister of State, Mr Platter, who, from his profession, is a real poor country, that is, a very honorable, important profession, only: The rare thing for me when he presented the Austrian security policy was that he says something different from the rest of the gendarmen who are on their way in Austria. Now there is something like the principle of rotation in the professional world. Mr Minister, perhaps it would be possible for you to release your chair for one of the many gendarmen in Austria, who still have a truly true presentation of the Austrian security problem, because what you see here is certainly not a real picture of the situation in Austria! [[Abg. Kößl: This is a worrying statement!]] To Mr Klubobmann Cap you have to say: That was very interesting what you said today. However, you do not get away with it, because you have studied the blue party program a little bit, and you have approached it in terms of content. I know it's not easy to defend that with the SPÖ's policy in the sections. I'll come back to it in detail. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There it would be easy anyway!]] To Mr ÖVP-Mandatar Missethon, who is not here right now and who has really given up “mistones” today: It must be said that the ÖVP is an Allerwelts Party which, on the one hand – as he – calls for a stop from immigration, on the other hand – as Mr Mitterlehner – after another flood of new immigrants, and a representative such as Mr ÖVP Landeshüfer Pröll, who warns with his left hand of “arterial buildings” and with his right hand gives a stamp after another for a building permit of a new mosque in Lower Austria. – This is exactly the hypocrisy of your party. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] To Mr. Van der Bellen, you have to say: It is already interesting somewhere and also laborious to hear this permanent green morality. It's pretty and good that you pay attention to other cultures, so do we. Just, your tense relationship with one's own culture is already something very questionable. All other cultures are good, only their own is bad. This is also a policy that leads to you having fewer and fewer votes among the voters and we have now reached a solid third place. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] To Mr Westenthaler, where I would like to go into all these stories, I would just like to say: It's good that he's calling for Parliament holidays to be abolished. He's on the lookout of all the mandaters of that with most sun tan on his face. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the Carinthian sun!]] It is not just a matter of holding meetings here, of going to citizens, of going to the streets, of accepting the problems. That wouldn't even hurt you, maybe you'll be 2.5 percent. That might be a little motivation for your ranks. The fact is that you, red and black and also orange, have been bringing masses of immigrants into our country for years and decades, opening the door and door to foreign cultures and also terrorism and terrorism into this nation, in Austria. [[Call the ÖVP: Where were you?]] If I were a terrorist today, I would probably choose Austria as a target. It's incredibly cozy. If I get no immigration notice, I'm sure I'll get some asylum procedure that I can endure for years here. If I am then active and have received my social benefits from the apartment to other benefits, perhaps monitored by the police, then I go to the Greens or perhaps to the Reds and excite myself to the strange nature of this republic. I'm convinced that the executive will be withdrawn. Then, if something really happened, like the three that were arrested... This is the most beautiful thing at all: the Minister is impoverished everywhere, there is nothing going on at all, there are no problems. With this bird-strout policy, which you live there, you achieve nothing but a safety threat to Austria, and that is something very bad. If you do not finally start to wake up, really recognize the problems and aim at them, there will be terrorism here in Austria in the future, and we now have the opportunity to perhaps bring about a turnaround. It's interesting when I look at the SPÖ, how to sort of, I say, dialectic contradictions, how to solve some paradox. How do you do that, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, when you promote the freedom of women on the one hand – rightly – but on the other hand, you allow the freedom of religion with which you can beat women, and that is, in sum, a paradox that is in fact not soluble? It is not – since it is impoverished here that only a few Islamists are in our country anyway – a question of how many are here in Austria, because if it is “only” 20 or 30, we already have a huge problem in our country. Perhaps you can, Mr. Klubobmann. Van der Bellen, or you, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, are helping me now: How many were these at the „Bader-Meinhof-Bande“: 20, 30 members? - Aha, all right. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: 37!]] So it is quite clear that a small number of terrorists can carry a huge amount of blood. It is therefore important to combat all the tendencies of Islamism, which are manifest here in Austria, with all massity. Those in your ranks who have taken a little distance, such as the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, see this much more clearly. In an interview with the “Press”, Mr. President of the Federal Republic of Germany, Dr. Fischer said that he – of course – confessed to human rights, to the principles of humanism; he observed “the Christian roots of European society and believed that a society that adheres to it is superior to others”. This is a key idea, namely the recognition of a leading social democrat, that our culture is a higher value than perhaps others. And I'd like this thinking to be a basic consensus here sometime. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: Higher quality of culture, after super!]] Once upon a time it was the case that we Austrians were proud of our culture, defended Austria and lived patriotism. Today, however, under your leadership, with strong support from the Greens, we are experiencing an exact opposite development in Austria. We can now talk about individual things where some of you say: There's nothing going on anyway! I have a certified copy of a sermon from the 2nd century. Bezirk, a sermon in the Al Shura Mosque, read on the Internet, where, for example, in relation to the Pope – I quote – stands: “The curses will persecute the Pope. The insulting, stupid statements against the noble prophet Muhammad show that the Pope is a much greater fool than his predecessor.” – This is the harmless introduction. Then it goes on – I quote –: “May God keep you” – towards Pope – “no longer alive, you fool. Muhammad is great whether you want or not. Your insulting, stupid expression against Islam is not even worth a nail under the foot of our noble prophet.” Do you know that, Minister Platter? – He needs “Trojans”; perhaps some electronic “Trojans” can help him with all that is happening here. [[Abg. Strache: He needs “Trojans ” to find out and become active! To this day, nothing has happened!]] I am going to give this to the Minister in a post-examination manner, and I will, in the context of a parliamentary question, find out what progress this is taking. It is a scandal of the special class that these things pass through Vienna, across Austria, and the government – from Minister of Interior Platter downwards – does not only seem to be watching, but rather to make a competition with the mandates of red and black, who can put their heads in the sand longer and deeper! It is a shame how politics is being conducted in Austria! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would therefore like to make the following request to strengthen our executive: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian does not live the way the Federal Minister wants us to believe with his statistics – adjusted. The fact is: We do not want and cannot measure that any other state is making a much worse policy than Austria. The Austrians have a right to ensure that security in our state is guaranteed, with as many executive officials as possible, across Austria! But such a minister and such a policy of coalition parties is certainly not the appropriate instrument for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22796	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22863	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22884	Madam President, Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are dealing with a serious issue, and I believe that this should also be dealt with seriously and seriously. It is about showing problems, looking for solutions, but it must not be about polarizing and gnawing fears. There is no question that there are radical tendencies that should not be played down. – These are not, by the way, my words – but I am of course in favour of them – but these are the words expressed at the press conference of the Islamic community after the arrest of the three suspects. That means you really have to differentiate: It is not true that “ Islam” is the problem – the German Chancellor, as I mean, expressed it very well – but not “ Islam” is the enemy, but terror, dictatorship and the condemnation and neglect of democracy. This is, I believe, the central point that we need to address in this whole discussion. At the Iftaar, which the Federal Chancellor has given, the President of the Islamic Faith has also spoken Schakfeh; I have listened very carefully to this. President Schakfeh has repeatedly stressed that he and the community are confessing to the secular state of Austria. That's something very much It is important – and something we can and must demand. The commitment to the laws of our state, to the fundamental order of the state and to fundamental rights is a central concern, is a central requirement that we all have to raise. Of course, this also applies particularly to those issues which have already been addressed, such as women's rights. We know that much of what is done and said in some Islamic circles is not due to Islam, but to outdated traditions from societies that did not have our development, which leads to the equality of women. What we have to demand is that women's equal rights apply to all and that is to be followed by all in Austria: not only by the Muslims, but by the whole population. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It has already been said today: It is a very small group that represents an extreme Islam, which is an extreme interpretation of Islam, but there are the very large numbers of those who have come to Austria, people who come from Islamic societies and have a very liberal position or are not very religious at all. We should focus on these people, we should promote and support them. I thought it was wrong to focus the discussion only on those group who are trying to go an extreme way. We must tell them that this is not possible in Austria. But otherwise I think that very, very many people here have found a second home here, people who are integrated and who we want to continue to promote. That is why I think it is very good that this integration platform will finally exist, as it is necessary to continue to do something for peaceful living together. Just one sentence still to some of the representatives of the ÖVP from other federal states who repeatedly try to make Vienna bad: A very good integration policy has long been implemented in Vienna. The fact that the situation in Vienna is different from in other big cities can be seen by everyone, of which everyone can convince himself, who is even a little bit around.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22951	Next, Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e22972	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We have discussed many topics today. For one thing, as a VP spokesman for technologies and telecommunications, I should like to express my thanks to Mr. Blatter for also meeting criminals who did not take new paths just a few years ago in a new way that I consider necessary. We cannot ignore technological progress, even if they make terrorists, and must adapt to these circumstances. We cannot say, as the rule of law, that we are opposed to the appointment of terrorist organizations in real life, so to speak, but in virtual space, we simply watch, as everything may happen. Federal Minister Platter, thank you very much for responding to the new possibilities of crime. I support this and am very sure that, in the legal framework, this will not constitute any restrictions on the personal rights of unspoiled citizens in the case of specific suspicions, as in the case of other methods of investigation. On the other hand, we have mixed a lot of terms. On the one hand – I do not want to address this – the proposal put forward is very unclear, mingling Muslims, Islamists and Islam. It will be particularly difficult, but from my point of view, for Mr Cap and also for Mr Van der Bellen. In this debate, they do not even try to distinguish exactly between cultural problems with Muslims caused by religion and the content of Islam, and the real problems of integration here of living families from other countries. I assume that some of you, perhaps Mrs. Worm – I don't know, I wish – have read this book: "I'm suing" by Ayaan Hirsi Ali. [[The speaker keeps a copy of this book up to date.]] The Dutch politician, who was a member of the Liberal Party and parliament in the Netherlands, is a Muslim who, in particular, is overly afraid of Western societies, also occasionally criticizing religious freedom, where she exceeds the limits of respect for democracy and human rights, this fear of the Europeans to practice criticism here. Ayaan Hirsi Ali accuses us of the fact that under the cover of religious freedom, we support the right of women to de facto. Mr Cap, you must be very careful when you say that everyone can live his religion as he pleases! But if in a religion – I notice this in conversations with Muslim women – still and very fundamentally an oppression and subordination of women and a privilege of the Father familia – as was lived with us earlier and also in connection with religion – is still lived and dogmatically taught, then we must go into teaching content here to safeguard human rights, the right to self-determination of women, and we cannot say: Whatever is taught there, we don't care! [[Congratulations on ODP and FPÖ Members.]] For this reason, from my point of view, the danger that Hirsi Ali also complains about is very great. She says that the Social Democrats do not want to see the increasing discontent in society, the oppression of women is hardly addressed by them, they miss out on any commitment on this issue. I remember how we decided two years ago that people who are to be born here in Austria must learn German. We have not decided because we are unhuman. We are, and we confess, Christians in the Austrian People's Party. We confess to Christian charity. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger:... deportation... Christian charity?]] We confess that people who are persecuted in the world find asylum in us. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: A residence permit... don't give it!]] However, we also acknowledge that integration into our society is only possible for women if it is possible for these women to visit a doctor without their husbands, if these women, who are particularly interested in their children, are at all possible to give their children the necessary support in their school progress, because also these women want their daughters and their granddaughters not to live the way they have to! – And if you were to deal more directly with a living attempt at integration with these women, you would know that. We must help these women! And if we do not also put in place concrete measures that lead to these women being obliged to attend German education, then their husbands will not let them go, they will not let them do it. In order to preserve the dignity of women and to preserve self-determination, freedom of women, I demand that we create instruments in this country – without misunderstandings of religious freedom – through which we help these women to live self-determined lives without leaving them completely false and falsely liberal, with reference to a multicultural society in the Middle Ages – because we also have to learn not to want to live as our great-grandmothers and great-grandmothers do. In the sense of integration, we also want to enable women with a Muslim background in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23045	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. Desirable time: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23066	Madam President. Minister! High house! If the subject were not so serious and dramatic, you could have spent almost two hours an entertaining hour. After all, the FPÖ-Obmann Strache, who is responsible for an election campaign beyond any political predicament and full of hetze, is here and warns – he calculates! – before “hate preachers” and “radicalization”. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Can you go in to Hakl's wife?]] Just like FPÖ-Obmann Strache, he calls for the demarcation of totalitarian systems and fascism – he says: "of 21. ==References====External links== He has a problem in the century, and I am allowed to give you official access to Nazi thought goods from court. Weitem demarcation has not been so clear. [[Abg. Street: (pointing to the speaker) A shackle-phobic!]] And then make up the FPÖ and say who is willing to integrate and who holds our values, and then define what the values are for you. It's not even me! You want to deport me? [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Go, go, go!]] What would be Your proposal? How do you want to handle this? It will be particularly pious if you make yourself strong for the freedom of women. I mean, where are women alone with you? Where is your great commitment to the protection of women in different ways... – I will speak to you in a moment, Mrs Hakl, no worries. [[Abg. May. Hakl:... other party!]] But that you show at the FPÖ is significant enough. That was quite a vote. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where, Mr Klubobmann Strache – no, you were not in Parliament at the time, but: Where, ladies and gentlemen of FPÖ and BZÖ was your great protest, when an ÖVP administrator of this House, who held the mandate here, was politically interested in violence against his wife? [[Call to the ÖVP: But it didn't vote!]] Where was your protection from oppression and violence? Where is your protection of the woman when it is actually about sex-specific persecution? Will it be officially recognized as a reason for asylum? – No, of course not! Everyone might want to come and have protection! [[Abg. Strache: Where is your protection for asylum seekers who have to work as prostitutes in Vienna?]] . I could now give you a lot of examples, just in your direction, Mrs Hakl: Where is the support for women if, for example, one does not even have emergency sleeping places when discussing in your party... [[Abg. May. Hakl:...! We got her!]] Yes, of course, in Tyrol there are so many emergency places for women affected by trafficking in women and women affected by forced labour! – Mrs Hakl, a little more serious in the argument would be appropriate. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And especially in your group, it is always argued that, for example, victims of trafficking in women cannot be given residence permits here, otherwise everyone can be dragged in as victims of trafficking in women just to get the residence permit! – So cynical and inhumane you argue, if not just the beautiful Sunday speeches to the freedom of the woman are due. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: It is about the rights of women in Austria!]] Now you can say that you can't expect anything else from the FPÖ. - Sad enough, but true. But I found the speech by the Minister Platter, who, in all openness and with the agreement of the political groups, is doing the business of the FPÖ. (a) Security, (b) Less asylum applications, (c) ‘this is good’. And the only problem is the “backbag”. The “Rucksack”, which is – Germanized – all those people who have been waiting in Austria for many years to finally decide whether to stay here with asylum status or not. This is a "backbag" for the Minister. That's all that says anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Those who first do not disclose their identity, give false information! Do you want to defend these people? Do you have any idea of the practice?]] The only thing where I agree with the criticisms is that the integration policy of this minister and his predecessor has failed completely, because it has not been operated at all – if I have an interior minister, who has just come to mind on the subject of integration: “integrated” when I listen to his party colleagues who understand under “humanity” that integrated families, women and children are pushed off every day! [[Abg. Scheibner: Would you not like anything else on this subject?]] Like yesterday. Steiric family with eight children pushed off! [[Abg. Strache: Then they probably didn't comply with the laws! There are laws, and they must be observed!]] – I could bring a lot of examples. And you think: “Shamintegrated”, and: It's good that fewer and fewer people live here. What we need is actually integration, which is taken seriously. And now I'm going far away from these freer argumentation games, which, even in the formulation, often fall so far that they are really “on the other side”. What we need is an integration policy which deserves this name and which is being carried out seriously. The problem is that our Minister of the Interior is obviously not ready for this first – he has more than clearly documented it today; he only understands “security” – and, secondly, it seems that it is not politically capable or roughly unscrupulous if I look at what he has to present so far in the balance sheet. [[Abg. Strache: The multi-cultural fantasies of the Greens, who obviously do not want to take note that the project has failed!]] For a single form for the uniform criteria for the humanitarian residence permit, it was first needed for months, and then he does not even submit it, because it seems so embarrassing that there are still no criteria in it that he projects it to the wall at a press conference, so that journalists cannot even read the small print. We are denied this anyway – as a Member of this House. This is a way of dealing with criteria and with a humanitarian stay, which speaks a clear language: Not even a form has been made by the Minister, let alone integration! [[Call to the ÖVP: That's ridiculous!]] That is why I can only say: Away with the integration agents of this ministry, it is the wrong place, and away from this minister, he is the wrong man for the job! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: What about the role of women?]] What we need is a State Secretariat for Integration and Migration, which can indeed fulfil a comprehensive claim: where immigration can take place, where residence status is merged – Mrs Hakl, where is your support for all those women who do not have an independent residence permit?; the man only has it; when do we finally change it?; we have been calling for this for years, you can support it immediately! – where education, intercultural encounters and learning are brought together, where integration is made true and lived and where one can reasonably anchor a right of residence for integrated persons – and not after a wish-making definition, as it may be in the blue heads: “at least three times a week must wear a leather pants”, or no idea what your concept of integration is, but after one who makes it true that different cultures in Austria can live together as well as in the past today. [[Abg. Street: Where are you at the thousands of asylum seekers sent to the street today in Vienna, who are forced by the tow bands? Where do you react?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you have a suggestion who could lead this State Secretariat?]] But this needs active integration policy, and it is missing today!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23336	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 8 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23357	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This was once again a fine example for the Greens, as one closes one's eyes to reality. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] Mrs Collaborative and also Klubobmann Van der Bellen! It's all right to discuss the lack of integration and immigration and everything possible and your individual cases with the asylum seekers – you have a hundred times an opportunity here in the House – but today it's about something else: There are current cases – I am still coming to this strangeness of the security discussion in Austria – where one has seen that there are people here in Austria who suddenly become a threat to the state and to the population – those people who support you in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: And those you all integrated in this way!]] That's not a single word worth yours! I have not heard a single word in your speech about how to fight this threat to fields, what measures you have here as a green person! That's quite typical! Mr Cap has at least said that a differentiated discussion is necessary. But you still shut your green eyes before reality! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. No, just before the BZÖ!]] I don't understand. You are sitting here in Parliament and should take into account the concerns of the people here – and not continue to implement your multicultural fantasies. At least this colleague, Cap, has sworn if I have understood this right today – unfortunately a little late. Except in election campaigns, I can still remember: “Hernals the Hernals!” in the nineties, “The boat is full!”, at the borders and so on; these were in the election struggles short Schlenker of our colleague Cap in reality. [[Deputies Dr. Graf and Ing. Westenthaler: “The boat is full!”]] Otherwise, we have always had these multicultural discussions. Mayor Zilk, your great mentor – or not?, were you in the other group? –, has always said: Everyone in here, open borders!, no matter where they come from, no matter if they can get German, that's so beautiful, this multicultural – and a little different social order, a little bit of violence against women, forced to do so, that's not really the topic, because then it could use anyone for his right theories, we don't talk about that at all! – For women's rights seem to be only available to the Austrians, but the other women's rights were not so much the subject. At first, you have slowed down that women in other cultures, when they come here, should also have the same rights. That there are people who do not want to integrate, you have closed your eyes for years, almost decades. And if you've said that people have to integrate – I'm not talking about assimilation at all; Integration has always been our topic, not multicultural society –: How terrible! There, light chains were organized at Heroes Square, and everyone was a “right-wing extrem, ” who tried to take account of the fears and concerns of the population. And that's the problem: you've closed your eyes to reality for years. I'm telling you, too. I also refuse to throw everyone into a pot hysterically now. Islam is not a religion of terror, it is not a religion of violence. But we have the responsibility here to suffocate those radical tendencies in the germ, which might then become a danger to us here in Austria. Now a little replica to the discussion we had in the summer – this is also so typical for Austria: If nothing happens for a long time now, then – I know you all how you sit here – we have a nice neutrality discussion here, and it says: In Austria, there can be no such thing! The terrorists who are supposed to be in London... – Yes, Mr. Strache, you were also one of them: [[Abg. Strache: Those who want to reduce neutrality make us the goal!]] “It’s all none of our business”! [[Abg. Strache: They make us the goal!]] I'm not going to do anything at all. I ask you, Mr Strache, if you are making calls so loud here now – this is again the bad conscience of my colleague, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Strache: You want to abolish neutrality!]] [[Abg. Strache: You want to abolish neutrality and make us the goal of international terror!]] Your slightly sloppy request shows this bad conscience, because, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other – sometimes rightly, sometimes a bit exaggerating – you get over this danger, but when it comes to giving our executive the means in the hand and giving the rule of law the means to take action against this terrorism, then you are suddenly afraid, then you don't want it! [[Abg. We'll be there!]] [[Abg. Strache: Sufficient executives!]] [[Abg. You saved it!]] [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: 3 500 executive officers have saved you!]] Mr Strache, what do we have to do with this? You scared? [[Abg. Strache: You have dismantled 3 500 executive officers!]] What monitoring of the executive are you afraid of, Mr. Strache? [[Abg. Strache: You have deteriorated the position of the executive in Austria!]] Why don't you want the Internet to be researched against radicals, against terrorists? [[Abg. Strache: They were in the process of reducing safety! They were the security destroyer in Austria!]] I say quite frankly to you: I am just as opposed to the extreme of rights as to the extreme of the left, as is the Islamic terrorist. I want the executive to turn to field against all these radicals. [[Abg. Strache: To abolish neutrality, and then wonder when terror arises!]] You may not want to, but we can see almost every day why this is so. And I'll tell you: Radicals, no matter what side, have lost nothing with us! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The Jörg Haider says of himself, he likes to be radical! – That’s what I’m telling Jörg Haider!]] I am not afraid of the Minister of the Interior, I am not afraid of the executive, I am not afraid of the rule of law. That's why: Anyone who is against democracy, anyone who is against the rule of law, should also be persecuted with the whole hardness of the rule of law. We, as just citizens, are not afraid of it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are therefore bringing forward the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member. Darmann, Ing. Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues on measures to combat the terrorist threat in Austria. There we have a comprehensive... – See how nervous he is! [[Abg. Strache: Degrading neutrality, reducing fundamental rights! That's your program!]] That's wonderful, isn't it? Mr. Strache, if you say so loud, it was funny: [[Abg. Strache: That's why you have 2 percent today!]] In your speech you said that 20 years ago the FPÖ was already opposed to various measures. 20 years ago, you were not in FPÖ, because there were colleagues in Westenthaler and I, as a member of the Freedom Youth, who have prevented people from entering this organization with your mind. You may have forgotten. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are still proud today that this was an important concern for us at the time. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you have 2 percent today – wherever you belong!]] We are putting in place this request to combat the terrorist threat of online searches of computers, to shift the criminality of terrorist offences into the field of preparation, to ban the disguise of a routine review of associations and associations in their constitutional fidelity, and to have a special commission dealing with these terrorist threats. I am now saying to these neutrality fighters: It must also be clear that we are not sitting under the cheese bell, that terrorists do not go after the beautiful face of Mr. Cap or Gusenbauer and say: No, we don't want to threaten the Austrians! The terrorists have two criteria – you only need to read the Security Doctrine, which is not so bad now; then, in 2001, when we discussed them here in Parliament by a majority and decided, you fought them – on the one hand, attack symbols – the EURO next year is to implement such a symbol – or easily attainable goals. In Austria, it would be our responsibility if we invited terrorists to attack easily attainable goals. - We don't want that! But it is also necessary to say clearly that we will not do this alone. [[Abg. Strache: You are responsible for this!]] – “You are responsible”! They were always against it! Screaming is just too little, you have to do something, not just scream out loud and order beer in the beer cellar or else, but take clear measures. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Straw: Disintegrate Neutrality! That's exactly the point!]] This is responsible policy; you have long adopted it. [[Abg. The BZÖ wants to reduce neutrality!]] This, Mr Cap, is also about joint action in security policy, together in Europe, and not about saying: London is far, Tokyo is still on, and we are glad that nothing happens to us! Let us prepare them a little in Austria, but the main thing is, they don't do us anything! – No, solidarity is required here! We need the protection and information of all countries, and we also need to clearly signal that Austria is not a cushion for Islam, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: NATO membership is the same!]] However, one must also say to the representatives of Islam who are standing here, they must also clearly distance themselves! If we say, of course, not all who belong to Islam have radical tendencies – quite the contrary, it is exceptional that God is grateful – but there must also be a clear demarcation. There must also be a clear demarcation from Islamic society that one wants nothing to do with such people. There must also be a clear commitment from this area that, if someone is here in Austria, in Europe, we must also accept our habits of life. He needs to integrate. That's an important task. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] You nodd from the SPÖ now, but for many years that was not the case! This must also be a credo of politics: Integration yes, but it cannot be unilateral to use all rights, but there are also obligations to comply with. Those who do not take care of the rule of law will then have the consequences of the rule of law. I hope that this motion for a resolution will take a step in the right direction and that we will not remain in the multicultural vision, as the Greens have shown today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23745	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Members has just been presented in its key points. Darmann, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to combat the terrorist threat in Austria, has been submitted in writing, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23847	The next speaker is Mr Kurzmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23868	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Islamisation of Austria and other European countries, as previous speakers have rightly said, is the result of a completely missing immigration policy. That's not what you're going to pass, these are facts that you can't doubt. Who now bears the main responsibility for this development, which the peoples of Europe do not want? – It is certainly – for Austria – the last federal governments, but there is no doubt that they are responsible – one simply has to hold on to it – also the Interior Ministers. And these have undoubtedly been set up by the ÖVP in recent years, by a party that repeatedly calls itself a Christian-social party. Mr Federal Minister, I ask you: What is left of the ÖVP as a Christian-social party? What have you done, what have your predecessors done to combat this Islamization in Europe? Bassam Tibi, a recognised Islam expert, professor in Frankfurt, university professor in Göttingen, spoke about a jihad, i.e. a holy war against Europe, two years ago, when there was a civil war-like situation in France that we all know about television. Bassam Tibi has performed literally – I quote –: “Let’s not think about it: This can happen everywhere in Europe. Without exception. What is happening in Paris is much more serious than the attacks of London, Madrid and Amsterdam. It is an uprising, a real uprising, a declaration of war to the European identity and civil society.” – Quotes. Bassam Tibi also said: “Multiculturalism has long been dead. This dream is dreaming. The bomb that's just going up in France has been ticking for decades. I was in Amsterdam recently: There, no more illusions have been made since the murder of Theo van Gogh. The English were also attacked in the 7th century. He taught a better person on July. Only in Germany” – and one could add, of course, also in Austria – “everybody is equally right-wing, who is in doubt about the multi-culti ideology.” Ladies and gentlemen! These are the facts. And that does not say a more liberal, but it says one who is recognized as an Islamist expert throughout Europe. Ladies and gentlemen! I come from a city, from Graz, where soon a mosque will be built if it goes according to the will of the Muslims who live there. [[Abg. Street: And the ÖVP mayor!]] There are great concerns in parts of the Graz population, there is also intense rejection of these plans. As has already been said: The mosques are not pure sacral buildings such as the Christian churches or the Jewish synagogues, but the mosques are multifunctional houses. This will be kept silent, as will also be kept silent that Islam is not a church. Islam does not see itself as a spiritual world view, but as a world view that includes everything: daily life, politics and faith, thus forming an inseparable unity. [[Abg. Oils: Loud Qur'an scholar! That's interesting!]] There is no binding theological teaching. That is why the question of mosque construction in Graz is not a question of freedom of belief, but a political matter. You won't be able to get along with this with construction and association law; they are certainly overshadowed there. The Austrian National Council must ask itself: Are the Austrian laws still being observed in the mosques? Do these mosques really serve integration? In the Federal Republic, the mosques are germ cells of a so-called counter-company. There is development, ladies and gentlemen – and it has also been pointed out – that the mosques in the Federal Republic are developing into so-called Medinas. There Muslims practice what they call the law of God. This is, quite simply, about a different world view, about a world picture of another legislation, which is about life in the sense of Sharia. There children are already subjected to demarcation in German society, where they learn to differentiate society in believers and unbelievers. They learn that women have to serve men. I asked myself: Where is the cry of those who always like to be left-wing emanzen when it comes to defending the so-called rights of women? And they learn that Europeans are unclean. [[Abg. Strache: Eat pork!]] – Yes, because they eat the pork and don’t get circumcised. So that there is no false impression: The Freedom Party is not anti-Islamic, we are not anti-Arab, we recognise the right of life of the Palestinian people, but we must also note that this is a different subject from the immigration allowed here. I say and close with Bassam Tibi, who said – and to whom I want to join completely –: “I love Europe. But the Europeans have forgotten what they stand for, they no longer have a sense of self-esteem. They are proud of their tolerance and allow Islamists to grant that there is no equality between men and women. That's not tolerance, that's indifference." Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need the indifference and the ignorance, but we should be proud of our cultural heritage, our Christian country of the evening. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e23948	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kurzmann and other Members on the preparation of an annual Austrian Islamisation Report has been sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24083	The next speaker is Mr Parnigoni. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24104	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite all the emotions we experience in this debate between Blue and Orange on past errors, I would like to point out that we should be aware of the Austrian tradition that we achieved in the Second Republic, in which hatred, intolerance and violence between people of different religious communities have lost nothing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also the responsibility of the state to protect the freedom of religion, ladies and gentlemen, but it is the task of the various religious communities to ensure that the general legal framework of the Republic is respected. That is where democracy, pluralism, freedom of expression, equality between men and women and equal opportunities represent the fundamental values of living together in our Republic. This means that the legal obligations of all those living in this country must also be simply respected. As Josef Cap has already said today: So if there is a compulsory schooling in this country, then a student cannot refuse a female teacher, and there is also a very simple part of this schooling. However, I think, High House, it is gratifying to note that with the creation of the integration platform, this new Federal Government is making a positive contribution to getting closer to the problems – including migrants – in a comprehensive way and working on solutions. However, I would like to deal with a passage in the request of the Liberal Party, in which the Minister of the Interior is kept “prophane” procedure. I checked in the lexicon what the word “profan” actually means. The adjunct “profan” means: the property of objects or actions that are not in conjunction with a cult that does not have any ritual or religious significance, to which no magical properties and effects are attributed. So the progeny is on this side, so it is worldly nature and is actually the opposite of sacrial. And in this context, Mr Federal Minister, I have to ask you that you take full advantage of your office, because it also serves the secularity of this Republic – and that also belongs to support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the FPÖ would therefore be well advised to think a little about how to deal with such a sensitive matter with such keywords. It might also be worth writing something like this in an application to find out exactly what the word means. Ladies and gentlemen! Now to the accusation of “glass people ” and “total monitoring ” a note: We are quite ready for further powers for the executive, but only if the need has been demonstrated and if legal protection – that is, judicial approval – and supervision by the legal protection officer are guaranteed. Final sentence: If it is noted that there are too few executive officials, I must say that the governments, with active cooperation – first from blue and then in particular from orange – have contributed to the fact that we have 3 000 plantations less available. This has, of course, led to increased crime, which has, of course, led to dwindling reconnaissance, but I am very proud to say that this new government – Mr Kößl, before you get upset! – has reversed the trend. In 2007 we will have more than 150 planning posts, and in 2008 we will have the opportunity to have available those planning sites that are also used at the Schengen border to carry out customs tasks in the future for the fight against crime and to strengthen security in that country. [[Abg. Scheibner: We have already explained that this is not true!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24156	The next speaker was Mr Kößl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24177	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am not upset, Mr Parnigoni, because you know very well that the Federal Chancellor's staff and the Federal Minister are responsible. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But at the time it was also a black, the Federal Chancellor!]] This proposal, which has been tabled by the FPÖ, is also wrong if I can clarify it so clearly. However, I can make a request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate: I think we are truly obliged to thank Federal Minister Platter for his responsible security policy. He and our good police managed to implement a very important, decisive blow against Islamism in Austria. Thank you very much, Mr. Federal Minister, also the police working dayin and day out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to make it clear what Mrs Rosenkranz has brought here: First of all, Mrs Rosenkranz, you know very well that there is no such project in Bad Vöslau at all. And the head of state of Lower Austria made a very clear statement about this structure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That's a correction and a clarification. [[Abg. Strache: His authority has this...! Pröll is responsible for Bad Vöslau!]] It really hurts me personally when you, Mr Strache, talk about a police state when we here give the police opportunities to act even better for a comprehensive security for the population and for our state of Austria. [[Abg. You're inactive!]] In Austria we have – you know that very well; You must have a bad conscience – a strong rule of law. And because you said that innocent citizens are being persecuted here: The Federal Minister Platter has made it quite clear that such a persecution is only possible with a judicial request, there must have been an action and the legal protection officer must also give his consent to the persecution. [[Abg. Strache: The Minister of the Interior is inactive!]] I think one thing is clear, and that's what Mr Scheibner was really right about: One cannot, on the one hand, consider the dangers of Islamism, which actually exists – I give you the right to speak – here, what could happen, but the police must not have instruments to act and act accordingly. And this is the disgusting. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: What do the controls bring if you remain inactive? It's too little to control!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is very important that we distinguish precisely: Islamism is indeed one thing that we too have to take very, very seriously in Austria, but Islam as a faith is the other. We must certainly not let Islamism rise here under the guise of Islam, but must no doubt oppose it. I believe that on the one hand, these measures have been put in place – noise attack, grid arrest, protection zones, just everything that has been done in recent years in this area. The area has been done – and is very important for a comprehensive police work, but, of course, we need to take advantage of all technical possibilities to actually master this threat. Federal Minister Platter, I ask you to ensure that this measure – online search – is implemented as soon as possible. [[Abg. Strache: There you should show the already known Hasspreachers! Only control again and not act, that's too little!]] Mr. Strache, it is certainly a serious situation with regard to Islamism, but on the other hand, the police must also have opportunities to act accordingly.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24332	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kößl, Mr Parnigoni, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24379	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24400	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The issue of security has a very, very high priority in the Austrian population, and I know, Federal Minister, that Austria is considered a safe country that attracts many people, and we also want to maintain this status. We need to work on it and do everything we can to ensure that Austria remains a safe country, that it does not exploit crime, that people do not need to be afraid if they are go outside the house, that they should not be afraid of their children, that they should not be afraid that they will be broken in, so that they will block their homes. That's what we should work on. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In connection with democracy and freedom of religion, it must be said: We live in a democratic state, we have freedom of religion, but precisely the arrests of these suspected Islamic terrorists in Austria in mid-September have shown that this danger is also increasing in us. It must also be clear to the most tolerant good people that radical Islamism pursues only a single goal, namely to destabilize European-Nedish culture and undermine democracy under the guise of religion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Federal Minister! The debates following these arrests on the integration, in particular of persons of Muslim faith, certainly present us with difficult and urgent tasks and, above all, require the Federal Government to respond to these events. But, of course, not all and not all religious groups must be thrown into a pot, but we must distinguish here and not generally condemn all people with Muslim faith. The starting point is mutual understanding. Every person who lives permanently in Austria should be powerful in German, and that is starting in school. There is already to think that in Austria 15 percent of all students do not actually have German as their mother tongue and in some schools in Vienna almost 100 percent of students do not have German as their mother tongue. Here I can look at our neighbouring country, the Federal Republic of Germany: The Rütli School is probably known to everyone. Of course, we don't want states like there. Anarchist states have ruled there, and the teachers have no longer trusted in the school. We really don't need such a thing here! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! In order for developments in the Austrian schools not to drift in this direction, certain things must be done and appropriate arrangements must be made. Students in Austria must be strong in the German language. For patriarchal, traditional reasons, girls must not be forced to wear the headcloth, be kept away from gymnastics and so on. Religious teaching must not be used to consolidate the archaic social structures, and the content of religious teaching must be controlled and influenced in some way. There must be no radical Islamic schoolbooks. Therefore, the book “Allowed and Prohibited in Islam, ” used in the Islamic faith community, which virtually supports the beating, handshaking for thieves, death for homosexuals and the application of Sharia, is to be rejected. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] In order to prevent, ladies and gentlemen, a democratic, archaic world and social image is being spread in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24500	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Worm. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24522	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is important that we discuss this sensitive issue here in the National Council today, and we need the necessary fingertips in order to be balanced on this issue. For me and for the SPÖ, it is obvious that the Austrian and European fundamental rights must be respected by all those who live here with us. Of course, we conclude that these are also respected our basic values that we have given ourselves in this country. Of course, the respectful relationship between men and women is something that is necessary, as is the respectful dealings of parents with their children, and every woman must have the same rights as any man. Our legal system knows a number of provisions on how this equal treatment can and must be enforced. That is why, Mrs Hakl, we have always been from SPÖ to take appropriate measures if, for example, a husband beats his wife. We have set up intervention agencies, and it does not matter whether the man, in which case the perpetrator is Catholic, is Islamic, or does not belong to any confession at all. That's where remedial action is created. I am glad that in this budget, which we have decided here in the National Council, the funds have been massively increased to prevent, for example, violence against women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, we Socialists and Democrats are opposed to the fact that compulsory closure can be done in Austria and, of course, this is the case by our legal system and, of course, the consequences will be legal! [[Abg. Too late!]] I would also like to say one more thing to you, Mr Scheibner, when we are talking about women's right of self-determination: Of course, we are in favour of women's right to self-determination, and I do not need a churchman to tell us how to live and what rights to apply to women, neither the Lord Pope nor an Imam or anyone else. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If we are really serious about the right of self-determination of women, then everything applies to everyone, no matter where the voice comes from. But let me say one more thing: Exclusion cannot be an answer, exclusion is not an answer! What we have to do and what we have to look at is to create the appropriate measures for integration. Here a lot has already been started by this Federal Government – Tag Early Child Funding, Tag 1,500 Teachers More at Schools. This means more attention to the children, which is promotion where needs to be promoted. 400 additional teachers – they are included in these 1,500 – are then responsible for improved integration measures, support teachers if you want to have it that way. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that the integration platform is now installed, where all the essential associations, all the essential religious representatives, are put together to work out package of measures that we will then have to assess and decide here. Of course, it is also important that we always evaluate whether we are in accordance with our legal provisions, with our measures at the level of time to ensure freedom in our state. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Federal Minister: We are those who, of course, are not against it when it comes to ensuring greater security in that state. We were also already in 1997/1998 those who had made sure that the new investigation methods, for example, were introduced by the Legal Protection Officer, that the judicial approval required such massive fundamental rights intervention. There you have a good partner in us. We have always taken care of this – and we will take care of it because security and freedom are our concerns, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24570	First of all, I announce that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, Mr Ing. Westenthaler and colleagues have been properly introduced, are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24659	I call Mr Zach as the next speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24680	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Strache, I simply do not take your new preference for fundamental rights protection. I am not as optimistic as my colleague. Van der Bellen, that you are now in the club with us, namely in the club of those who are committed to fundamental and human rights, because the facts clearly speak against you: Where were you at the noise attack? Where were you at the Rasterfachung? And where were you at the video surveillance? – Always outside before and never in those who have critically expressed their concerns. Fundamental Rights Protection was and is a foreign word for you, Law and Order is your headline. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Bitch.]] As Mrs. Hakl has quoted a prominent liberal politician from the Netherlands and a liberal party – you can believe I know it better than you do –: [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] Have you forgotten that the response of the liberals in Holland is not to create a surveillance state, but to work for an open society where freedom is guaranteed, also freedom of expression, and not the fundamental rights are restricted. Mr Platter, Federal Minister, as you spoke of “Safety World Champions”: I think you're more interested in the title Supervising World Champion. I'll advise you: Take Professor Korinek's words seriously, and go inside! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24734	Mr Pilz has been mentioned as the last speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24756	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! My highly revered interpreters of the Koran of ÖVP via FPÖ to the BZÖ, I have not known so far that you have been so deeply involved in the study of Scripture. But that doesn't change anything: We will make no difference in the future whether haters have a liberal or a Muslim background or appeal to it. In the future, we also do not care whether a family image, in which the oppression of women and the right to beat children stand, calls on free family images or on Muslim backgrounds. [[Abg. Strache: Or green, when it comes to beating!]] The following, Mr Federal Minister and ladies and gentlemen, in the case of BZÖ and ÖVP in particular, you already have to explain to us – and unfortunately this also applies to colleagues Parnigoni: What changes to problems in school, integration, asylum – I am still referring to the question of worldly and religiously motivated terrorism – when you introduce a ban on veils when you introduce a minaret ban when you introduce the overall surveillance state and when, in this regard, as Mr Scheibner has suggested, you abolish neutrality? – Will a single Turkish-speaking child have better school success if you take all these measures? Will integration be better if you put in place these measures? At one point, Mr Platter, I believe that not only the members of our club have become particularly bright; I think you have gone in the debate today in peace and in every comfort: No one of the liberal clubs – you can read it in the explanatory statement – has put the word asylum in connection with a terrorist threat. No one, not even Mr. Strache. In the event of a urgent request relating to a terrorist threat in the Republic of Austria, you have begun to have asylum figures, and you have declared that a “reck bag” has been dismantled. – All of this in connection with a terrorist debate! You have seen no reason at all to explain to this House and to the Members – I hope there are still a lot of people – who still do not see this context, why asylum in Austria needs to be discussed first when it comes to combating terrorism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you even know what you are doing if you are looking for the backgrounds and reasons for your anti-terrorism policy in asylum policy? I'll let you use it, but I'll find out. At the home of an Interior Minister, who seeks the roots of terrorist threats for asylum seekers and asylum seekers, i.e. people who demand human rights in Austria, and in its personal proximity, asylum and the numerous issues of integration must not be removed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We must expressly protect human rights – and this includes the right to asylum – from politicians such as you, Federal Minister Platter, in this House. Now on the question of terrorism. There's a threat video. Some members of this house had the opportunity to watch this threat video. I personally believe that this threat video warrants judicial investigations in every respect. These judicial investigations are being conducted, and I am quite sure that the Austrian rule of law with its institutions and instruments is strong enough that the courts and executives are able to deal with this threat by a threat video, which, fortunately, is much less than concrete threats in other European countries – but I do not want to be impoverished here for the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hakl]] Now, explain to me why in the fight against terrorism you have tolerated for two years the fact that there is a director of the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection, who, supported by numerous facts, has been shown to be inadvertently close proximity to the Iranian Ministry of State Security, with whom, as a person, the US authorities have officially refused cooperation since last autumn and which has been withdrawn and removed by you and the Director General for Public Security from the Anti-Terrorism Group Contact Group Pakistan/Afghanistan, to whom the British Embassy and the British intelligence services officially deprived you of confidence in the spring of this year, where it was quite clear that there is a real problem point in the fight against terrorism, where not only we both know that it is going down and above in the Federal Office for Constitutional Protection, and that the office is partially incompetent, because it is broken by political struggles that are not only politically motivated! - You've been looking away for two years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Fortunately, you have now decided, after a political agreement of the early summer, to terminate this contract. But if you really meant it so seriously with the fight against terrorism, then you would have had to remove Mr Polli from office two years ago and start with the urgent reorganisation of constitutional protection in Austria much earlier. If this is to be reformed, we will have our full support because we need effective constitutional protection for the fight against terrorism. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] Now I'm also asking you: What it takes Now you have more instruments? Whenever I ask in the Federal Criminal Office, in the Constitutional Protection, where he is still able to work, I get the answer: We don't need extra tools, we need more staff! – This is the problem: They no longer give them personnel, but they still offer them a technical possibility and a technical possibility. But one thing you have long forgotten – and that the Austrian People's Party, which once had something like a liberal wing! –: Has any of you today taken the word “freedom ” into your mouth? [[Abg. May. Hakl: Yes! Yes!]] Has any of you taken the word “private atmosphere ” into your mouth? [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Has any of you taken the term “civil and civil rights” into your mouth? Do you remember what you're protecting? Do you remember how long you have given up protecting the privacy, the great civil rights of the Austrians? Do you know that you are attacking exactly what does not fit the Islamicly motivated extremists to Austria and Europe: free social order, free rights, equal rights, openness? This is the paradoxical success of the Islamic-motivated extremist propaganda, that not only politicians such as the Minister of the Interior, but politicians of various parties, partly also social democracy, fall into it. Finally, they become the paradoxical administrators of what is most threatening Europe here. If something is threatened, then it is our freedom, it is our fundamental rights, it is our generosity, it is our openness, it is our great liberal traditions. The worst thing we have to say about our policy is that today we have to deal with not only the danger from outside, but also the danger from the inside. And I am personally sorry that we must not only protect ourselves against the fundamentalists from outside, but also against the fundamental rights skeptics and the fundamental rights depositors from within. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] Parliament is exactly the right place to protect this Republic and the people of Austria from them.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24885	The list of speakers is exhausted. We are therefore voting on the Independent Amendment 309/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the strict application of the Rules of Procedure to prevent the progressive Islamisation and the associated terrorist threat rather than the establishment of a police and surveillance state. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Schalle, fellow Members, on measures to combat the terrorist threat in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. [[Call the SPÖ: Less!]] – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues, on the increase in staffing in the executive. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Darmann, colleagues and colleagues on measures to combat the terrorist threat in Austria. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Kurzmann, colleagues, on the preparation of an annual Austrian Islamisation Report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are working for this to be a sign of approval. – This, in turn, is the minority. Rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kößl, Mr Parnigoni, Mr President, on the establishment of a platform for strengthening integration and security. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is largely accepted. (E 38.) [[Call the ÖVP:First unanimously!]] We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, on measures to combat the terrorist threat in Austria. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We have thus reached the end of these votes. [[17:48:38]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24970	We shall return to the debate on item 7, for which there are two more speakers on the list. Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e24995	Madam President. Dear High House! I now have the opportunity to submit the proposal already announced: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25037	The amendment tabled by Dr Jarolim, Mag. Donnerbauer, colleagues and others are properly introduced, sufficiently supported and are therefore involved in the negotiations. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25097	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25119	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! After a long time, at European level, we have been able to set up European legal institutions, European societies, for some time, this is a follow-up step towards a common minimum level of protection for investors, common rules and easier recognition in Europe in the case of the merger of capital companies, which was, of course, already possible before – without these common smallest denominators. For Austria, however, other points seem much more important to me. In this coalition, I make up a partially frightening distance from my coalition partners. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] – I have to say that quite honestly. I note that for many of my colleague colleagues from the SPÖ, a share seems to be something like something of itself fundamentally evil. I therefore use this opportunity to appeal to think about how important a functioning capital market is today and especially in a knowledge society, how important a functioning capital market in Austria would actually be if ideas had to be financed when small companies that have no approach to it need money, and that we all did well to see this positively and to provide the necessary framework conditions. The framework conditions for this are not yet available in Austria from my point of view. They are not given in the supervision of the financial market, where I believe it would be necessary, instead of the small savings bank and the small bank of Raiffeisen, because sometime €400 000 lost, to check for months on the blood, which is necessary, but certainly also faster to create reasonable instruments so that cases like BAWAG and Meinl no longer happen in the future. It must not be possible in the future for a Banking Committee to say that these booking operations cannot be understood. I think we all need action here. At the same time, a successor model for the SME financing company, which expires at the end of this year, needs to be found. And we need to create a framework for international venture capital and shareholders, international stakeholders, to be able to put money in Austrian ideas and put money. This will be one of our most urgent tasks to bring an information and knowledge society to life in Austria as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25167	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore vote on the draft law in 218 of the supplements. Mr. Dr. Jarolim, I'm sorry. Mr Donnerbauer, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tabled an amendment concerning Article 6. In view of the fact that only one request has been made, I shall immediately leave the draft law in 218 of the supplements and the title and receipt in the version of the amendment tabled by Mr Jarolim, Mr Mag. Donnerbauer, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask those members of the House who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. – This was unanimously adopted at the third reading. [[17:54:44]] 8. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (172, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Insolvency Law and the Insolvency Order (Indebtedness Consulting Novelle – Schu-Nov) (219 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25227	We're now on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Worm. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25255	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The indebtedness of private households has unfortunately increased dramatically in recent years. This, of course, increases the importance of the debtor's advice and the debtor's services. For those seeking advice, it is often very difficult in practice to distinguish from others who are privileged by the Ministry of Justice, i.e. free of charge, of those who do not meet the conditions for the privilege. For people in a financial emergency, it is extremely important to be able to rely on free advice and care – in such situations one cannot afford a expensive lawyer. Mrs Bundesminister, therefore, welcomes the planned renewal, namely the establishment of state-recognised debt consultations, which are approved by the President/President of the Supreme Court by decision. The guidance of the Bundesweapon is also a visible external signal for help seekers, which is offered here sound and reliable advice. So it should look out, and I think that for those seeking help it is well known to whom they can turn free of charge. [[the speaker briefly holds a paper containing the Federal Arms]] Mrs Minister, however, I would like to take a step further. It will, of course, need the appropriate financial support for this state-recognised debtor advice. This is always a problem in the federal state from which I come, namely in Tyrol. It must be possible, however, that in addition to the already subsidising bodies, i.e. the Bundes's lenders, that is, the AMS, the countries and the AK, financial support is also provided by the economy and the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the debtors' financial institutions, because they are also relief for companies, companies in many areas; for example, with regard to employee motivation, the discharge of the third-party debt, practical assistance for small and medium-sized enterprises without a staff department and legal advice. Therefore, we must give these bodies the necessary financial coverage so that people who are in need can be helped accordingly and do not come up with waiting periods which often make up half a year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25298	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Also 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25321	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This debt advice novel regulates the recognition of debt advice agencies – my predecessor has already pointed out – as privileged advisory bodies. The conditions include, inter alia, that they are not based on profit, offer consultations free of charge, carry out sufficient consultations, and are financially secured and long-term. Mrs Wurm has also pointed out the sign for these publicly recognised debt advisory bodies. Our debt consulting office in Styria has been working very well, for many years, but ultimately there are also precarious situations in the Styria. A concrete example from my practice: A young man's mother was with me recently. The young man is 18 years old, has lost teaching places again and again because he was unable to follow up on time and reliable work. He's been doing it for half a year, he's got a teaching position. But through this constant change, he has come into financial difficulties, and now, although he now has a fixed apprenticeship and a regular income, he threatens to be executed. This man has a girlfriend who gets a baby, so in this respect everything fits together here, and I then called the debt consulting office in Graz and asked for an appointment. That's where the consultant told me – that was at the end of August –: The next date, I can take you on the list, is possible in December. – That is, of course, an impossible situation when a threatening execution is pending! As the family always supports, you can imagine. Mrs Bundesminister, if the financial resources for quick, good and long-term advice are missing – see debt advice service in Styria, as I have just pointed out – I wonder if you should not make budget resources available for financial support under this law. They have rejected this in the Committee and referred to the financial compensatory negotiations. The financial compensatory negotiations have been concluded, as we can see from the media, and you may be able to comment on them. But something positive was for me a statement in the Committee, namely the creation of data and the statistics that not only ensure quality, but ultimately also provide us with information on the causes and processes of debt. Only then is it necessary to put in a preventive form measures. I wonder how we can use and set up the financial resources in this regard. We of the ÖVP have always been concerned about helping people and preventing human suffering.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25368	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25389	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we will agree to this legislative initiative. But – and this is noted – it will not be enough to change the door sign that hangs outside; it In the future, this will take place instead of “debt advice service” (debt advice service). What we need is sustainable reforms to avoid debt and to avoid debt. The debt spiral is turning faster and faster. Austria is a country in which private debt has taken on bad levels and, contrary to national opinion, it is not only the debtors themselves who are guilty of financial indebtedness, no, it is also the law in Austria which has brought about this situation. Austria is the only country in Europe to know the third-party request. This means that the main association of social security funds calls a creditor the debtor's employer. Before 1986 a creditor had to order a file and thus had a much higher risk and much higher cost of debt recovery. Now the costs are lower, the risk is lower, and therefore consumer credit is granted much faster. The credit quality of potential business partners is examined with much less care. The most lucrative is still the late payment business. A customer who cannot repay his debts, but has work and can pay current interest is the safest business for a bank. There is an urgent need for action. It is also due to the fact that third-party creditors are completely innocent as the collection office of the creditors, namely the employers of the debtors. They must bear the effort and calculate the salary execution in the context of a salary execution. This is an effort that costs companies something. However, this also leads to debtors finding a job or being the first to be terminated because of the fact that the company does not, of course, take the effort associated with these debtors. I therefore believe that this cost overrun is unacceptable and significantly complicates the situation of the debtors concerned. Her situation becomes more hopeless, she gets worse, and the debt spiral is turning faster. On the other hand, we know that the debtors are getting younger and younger. Self-employed people are increasingly affected. Our minimum existence is lower compared to Germany, and the private bankruptcy is not a suitable means to escape the debt trap. It can be said that in Austria, legislation does not promote debt prevention, but debt recovery. That is why I was very happy to hear that the Federal Ministry of Justice is planning reforms in this area. My request to you, Madam Minister, is: Do not make small reforms, but trust You have a real access to reform, make a real system break! I would be glad if we could hear about this in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25440	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Haimbuchner. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25477	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a lawyer in a small, rural firm, one is repeatedly affected by the fate of highly indebted people, families. Before the often really desperate debtors seek the lawyer's advice, they first end up with the debtor's advisory services. Now I also support Mrs Riener's statement that the debt advisory services are doing a very serious job. It is only that the time factor is more problematic, because most of the time burns in the truest sense of the word of the hat, when the debt counsellors accept the matter, and then often nothing happens for months, because the human capacities are not given. At this time one could actually protect the debtor in connection with executions. If you look at this once after the order of execution, there are certain possibilities here. It is true that there is a need to think about how to develop the debt advisory services accordingly, that help has been given more quickly. One could also consider – there is the possibility of procedural assistance in civil proceedings –: Why should this not be possible in this area, too, that lawyers receive compensation? – One also has to say that the lawyers are actually doing very well. I can also say for myself that the debtors are usually very happy if the matter is simply being dealt with quickly. We support this government template – not a question – so that transparency is also given in practice. But it is also true that you should not, of course, fight the symptoms. You have to say quite honestly: Whether the term “acknowledged debt counsellor” or “debt advice agency” is, well, you can argue about whether this is really the hit in connection with the bankruptcy order. Rather, we need to think about how to prevent so many people from falling into debt. You have to pack the problem at the root before. The problem is that everyone says: Young people should take on more responsibility. We have now reduced the right to vote to 16 years; this is all – I am a youth speaker myself – quite beautiful and good. Only one thing has to be seen: that the young people are partly in debt and that there is no proper test at all here! In part, I also feel that some bank has relatively easy access to credit and overdraft for accounts. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Here you have to check the law, that simply can't be. I am a quite liberal person in the economic field, but it cannot be that young people are being destroyed here with inconspicuous credit contracts. On the other hand, I think it is necessary to make a clear statement, and the government must also consider it. It's also like: We've had the current hour, women deserve more. [[Call the Greens: Less!]] I don't want to be populist here, just, please, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: It's just that you've had a chance to change this over the last decades. In the first place, many single-parents are affected by poverty – you have to see that – and you have not improved anything in this situation until now. Mrs Stadlbauer, you have the opportunity to do so now! Take control of the government, then we'll see what's going on. I can only tell you one thing: I have already represented enough single women in the way of procedural assistance to be represented in matters of care, so you do not have to blame me. I've really helped many mothers here, and I've been very happy to do that. So unlike some of the others in here, I can also report a lot about my practical experience. As has been said, instead of fighting symptoms, the causes are to be combated here. It is simply necessary to review how loans are partially granted, how certain mobile phone contracts arise. It can, please, not be that a 19-year-old comes and has 3 000 € debts at a mobile network operator! You have to imagine this: 3 000 € – how can you telephonize it? These are things that just can't work. You can't just say: The boys should be allowed to choose, then we'll do a little bit of election advertising in the schools! – This is especially well done by the left half of the empire. It can't be like that! You also have to see one thing: If we are to assume full responsibility, if perhaps even 16 years of maturity are reduced, then we are in a completely different problem, and I warn you about that. That is where we are to pursue a serious policy. Here we should see that the young people are not indebted. Of course, we should give more opportunities to debt advice agencies so that we can also protect people against fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25519	Mr Mag. Darmann with 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25540	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I have to give my two previous speakers, Mr Haimbuchner and Mr Steinhauser, very well if you say: You have to pack the problem at the root! But what I can't do with my colleague, Haimbuchner, is that the banks are the big problem of youth. As a former banker, I have to keep my hand on it, since I know very well that it is hardly possible for a youth to close an account with a credit framework if not the parents guarantee it. That means that there is a protection mechanism installed very well. The real problem – and that has been mentioned in part – is that of Telekom operators and providers, the electric chains, the furniture chains. Everyone wants to set up something, and without a substantial credit check – I am back with colleagues Steinhauser – it is possible for a youth today and for other people in the public, i.e. every adult, to make a few thousand euros without further delay. He goes shopping, dissolves something, and already seems stupid – to use an advertising slogan as well – if he didn't buy anything. So that's really something where these chain operators, these chains, are required to strengthen their credit check and thus protect customers from further problems. But if all of this does not help and this credit check is not given, it may be natural that the people are facing a hopeless situation and think they have no future. In such a case, it is important to look, as they are now called, at debt and future debt advice offices – of which there are currently ten – and these are given a special quality feature, namely, the federal coat of arms in word and image marks, if they get a privilege from the state, and only if they do not work in a profit-oriented way. That is to say, this is a very important distinguishing feature, in which the debtors can also in future recognize that not for the benefit of any company is traded, but really for their advantage. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For this reason, I can say with good conscience to the BZÖ that we are supporting this government template for the implementation of this new state privilege of debt advice services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25588	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Berger spoke next time. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25610	Madam President. – Please allow me to comment briefly on the previous item on the agenda. It was a bit inappropriate to report to me there due to the end of the session. On the one hand, I would like to thank you very much for the unanimous adoption of the Company Law Amendment Act 2007. I hope that this will continue in the field of justice policy so that such broad agreement is possible. I can also announce that in the foreseeable future we will come up with further proposals in this area of justice. We will present a company law amendment law, with which we want in particular to strengthen the position of the auditor, especially his independence, and with which we want to strengthen internal control mechanisms. These are also some steps that are necessary in the implementation of EU legislation. Something we also want to do about it is to reform the law of society with limited liability. It will be necessary, however, to address some reliefs in the establishment of this type of company. As far as the debt consulting services are concerned, the current novel, I think, is very important. It is a contribution to how we can deal with the securely growing problem of the debt of Austrian households. It has been stressed several times: Of course, it can only be a small building block, but it is a very necessary building block. Unfortunately, we also have our institutions in this area, which take advantage of the already desperate situation of debtors and continue to drive them into debt. In this respect, it is already important to distinguish at least highly qualified debt advisory bodies from less qualified ones. With regard to the financing of the debt advisory services, a federal contribution was also granted here a number of times. As far as the Ministry of Justice is concerned, I made the reference to the financial settlement negotiations in the Committee, which have ended successfully this night. I like to look at the result, and if I find points that will relieve us of the burden where we are currently paying, although probably the federal states would be responsible for it, then you can negotiate with me that we are jumping in here. But the situation in the Ministry of Justice is also that we are already working in many areas. I now call the Sachwaltervereine, in part in the maintenance law, in the addiction therapy et cetera, whatever one might say, it would actually be the state's business; but we just pay with or pay alone. If we get a new distribution here, I'm happy to be ready for everything, but without that I can't make any commitments here. What we do from the Ministry of Justice is that we support the umbrella of debt advice services. They are also very valuable in the preparation of these statistics, in the preparation of necessary reforms in this field et cetera. This innovation is now taking a small but important step. However, we will continue. We have set up a working group which has already done so and has developed a first punctuation, and we will come next year with concrete proposals to address, in particular, access to private bankruptcy and other legal elements that play a role in debt or can play a role in debt. At the root of the problem, of course, we can also make our contribution as legislators in the field of consumer protection law. I believe that we could certainly do a lot in the area of information obligations, the obligation to inform before entering a contract, in order to help reduce this high debt, which unfortunately has already been given to young people. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25665	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister. – Mrs Ablinger is next spoken with 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25686	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! After my previous speakers have already justified the adoption of this new law, I would like to address only the statistics of debt advice and, above all, the situation of women in the context of this debate. These statistics give reason enough, I think, even in connection with the working group on access to private bankruptcy, which you have pointed out, to make things clear. The proportion of women in the clientele of debt advice is 40 percent, and on average women are indebted at €55 000, but men are €70,000. One of the main causes of the debt consultation is the question of income poverty. In fact, we are already on the topic of the current hour of the morning. What is also particularly dramatic about the situation of women is that two thirds of the clients have an income of less than €1,000, of which 50 percent even have to come out with less than €660 per month; and this is clearly below the income limit. That's exactly where we're in a central problem: This low income of women prevents access to private bankruptcy, because they do not succeed in ensuring that they pay the 10 percent of the remaining debt with the few money they have available in the month. Men can do this much easier according to the debt advice data. In this way, women are more structurally excluded from access, and this is the result of the figures that far fewer women have access to it. – That would be one of those points I wanted to mention. Second point: The second most common cause of the indebtedness of women is the acquisition of guarantees. And we see it by the numbers: The debts are male. 92 percent of clients have taken over the debts of their husbands, 7 percent stand for their sons, and 1 percent of women have the Bank debt itself. One can draw the tragic knowledge of it: Poverty is female, but debt is male! And that is certainly also a problem for banks. Because women are less mobile – they cannot move so easily elsewhere after divorce – they are more tangible for the banks and are more exposed to bank pledge attempts. Of course, the banks have the task of inducing the debt, but women are being pressured to an incredible extent and then possibly to unscrupulous credit intermediaries, and the debt spiral is turning on. In this respect, it is precisely the two structural points in which we could dramatically improve the situation of women in the spring when a draft comes to the house. We are looking forward to this proposal and today we are happy to agree to it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25735	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. You've done 2 minutes of speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25756	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Indebted people are in a delicate, difficult situation, and in this it is particularly crucial to know exactly who can best be turned to, who is really good, best advised as a person affected, and who meets the appropriate conditions to be a recognized debt advice agency. The previous speakers also mentioned how much there is indebted women, I say, families, too. I think that the number of people concerned is much too high, and especially in the field of private bankruptcy, the numbers have increased once again, and unfortunately they are also increasing more and more. In 2006, bankruptcy applications increased by more than 11 percent compared to 2005 and bankruptcy openings by more than 13 percent. Income weak households are very affected, and I really appeal for support not only when the hat is already burning, but also that provision is made. I think of families as well as young people, and I have to say: I have no understanding at all if banks can be awarded bank cards to young people who are not yet full-year old, and if they can also cover the account, and no looping arrangements can be made. I also think the economy says: Shipping houses and many more, responsibility bears. You're not supposed to say: You can pay this in a year or in two years and you can order it again quietly! All in all, I think that what we decide today is a small but important step. It is already important that this issue comes back to Parliament once again, because it is also a taboo issue. We're all good, no one's in debt – that's not true! We should work on it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25789	Next, Mrs Mag. Grossmann speaking. Madam President, you have been talking for 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25813	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Her word in the Chamber of Commerce, Mrs Steibl, but: The increasing indebtedness of private households is a sad fact. More and more people are getting into debt traps, for a variety of reasons: Unemployment, sickness, particular circumstances of life, circumstances for which one can't do anything, but perhaps also circumstances that one has to attribute to oneself, for example because one has too much to gain from the temptations of consumption or has just lost the overview of one's own finances. Especially in times of online shopping, shipping houses, overboarding mobile phone calculations can of course happen very easily. And here it is good to know that in Austria we have facilities that do not ask for indebtedness, but rather offer their help where their help is needed. As the managing director of a women's advisory service, I also have contact with debt consulting agencies on a case-by-case basis and know what great commitment is being made there, and that far beyond any professional obligation. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to thank all the employees of the debt consulting services in Austria and all the social institutions for their great commitment all year round. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] It is a command of the hour to improve the framework conditions for this important work, and this new law makes an important contribution to this. Of course, the resources are quite, very important, and I am right for all the previous speakers who have also discussed this, but that can only be better. Debt advice agencies are very, very late to intervene, only when the debt falls have already been caught, and that is why I think it would be really very much time to force prevention. According to a study presented this year by the Upper Austrian State Councillor Josef Ackerl, 20 percent of the clientele of debt counsellors are under 25 years old. And most of these young people say that they never heard anything about the right way to deal with money in school. Because I mean, a practice-oriented teaching, which also imparts life-speaking skills, could certainly help to prevent a lot of suffering. And most important of all, and this has also been the result of this study, is the parental role model, because that applies everywhere: What good is the best education, children are after us!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25862	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 172 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill. – This has been adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[18:27:35]] 9. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (170 d.a._Other Organiser Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transboundary Organized Crime (220 D.B.) against Migrant Migrants on Land, Sea and Airway
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25916	We reach the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Stadlbauer, who has 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25944	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The United Nations Convention against Transboundary Organized Crime covers three areas: illegal arms trafficking, trafficking in human beings and, finally, towing. This third additional protocol against towing is intended to facilitate the fight against towing with common standards worldwide by means of a United Nations legal instrument. The towing itself becomes a criminal offence, with the danger of the towed being regarded as a serious circumstance. This is the special part of the Additional Protocol. Towing is a globalized crime. The economy has globalized, the industry of crime as well. Towing organizations operate well like multinational corporations. Interpol estimates that four million people are being swept across international borders each year. Hundreds of thousands of people land in Western Europe each year. The tugs make up to 30 billion dollars a year. Towing is one of the largest branches of business, and the trend has so far been rising because it has been a relatively risk-free trade, as opposed to, for example, drug trafficking or trafficking in human beings. I would like to say particularly positively that the danger of the towed people is considered to be a mitigating circumstance. In addition, the toweds are not criminalized or seen as a threat, but as a victim. In order to protect the hauled, a criminal liability for their actions shall be excluded in accordance with Article 5. The common convention against cross-border organised crime concerns justice. However, the national implementation of this additional protocol against towing also concerns the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior. This is where the competent bodies are now on the train. For example, in the Convention, there is a reference to cooperation with and improvement of socio-economic conditions in countries from which they are towed, or appropriate assistance for migrants, or it is encouraged to conduct training for those who have toiled. In this context, it is important to take national measures and initiate international projects in order to live up to the Convention and to give the people concerned the best possible opportunity. ......................................................................................................................................................... The Minister of the Interior and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are required. The SPÖ will take care of it and strive to cooperate. We would like to agree with the additional protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e25986	The next speaker was Mr Glaser, who spoke for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26007	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today, we are discussing a part of the legal dimension of cross-border organised crime in the area of trafficking in human beings, mainly affecting women and children. The human dimension in this case is, of course, a very painful one if you imagine what is often done to childish souls or also defenseless women. And, of course, this whole complex is also linked to the economic situation of the countries of origin, which is certainly an starting point in this context. I therefore believe that we must do everything in many areas to address this problem of organised crime in the area of trafficking in human beings. In concrete terms today, Mr Stadlbauer has already done so, this is an additional protocol to the agreement on the fight against tow, which the United Nations adopted in 2000. For this additional protocol, Austria and Italy have been particularly active, and that is not about it. And they have also made essential organizational preparations. It may not be so well known that most of the illegal immigrants, the towed people, come to us, not across the eastern borders, but specifically across the Italian border. And that's why it's a legitimate commitment. [[Abg. Rosary: Because there is Schengen!]] – Well, Schengen is just an expression. We all know that Italy is surrounded by the sea and that immigration is therefore relatively light. Important points in this Additional Protocol – including those already implemented – are that the towed cannot be criminally held responsible for defining the risk of the towed as an additional mitigating circumstance. For me, it is also important that precisely – and we have mentioned it briefly – the towing on the sea road gets its own regulations, because what happens in the towing through the seaway is always brought to our attention on television with known boats, with bodies floating in the sea. These are really pictures that none of us want to see, and I think that we have to do everything in this area, so that the towing can end so that it can be stopped. That is why this Additional Protocol is important for the legal status of those concerned. In the longer term, however, we will only solve this problem if we really do everything we can to achieve economic improvement in the countries of origin. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26045	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger with 6 minutes speaking time to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26068	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I am pleased when my two previous speakers confess themselves so well to the fight against towing and to support the people affected by towing. Just, I'm wondering, Why Hit Do you have a reservation of performance for this additional protocol? If you want to do everything in it anyway, why a reservation of fulfillment that will lead us back to the standstill when it comes to implementation, and that very quickly? This is an unsitting of Austrian political culture, which should finally be ended. The second thing I think is exciting about this additional protocol is that, although we are presented with an argument that it has already been implemented by a long time, with all the points that we have already settled in Austria, especially in foreign law, there is a slight contradiction between Article 6 para. 1 lit. c of the Additional Protocol and the Foreign Police Act in § 115 para. 1. What's this about? – Imagine: They're home. At the door knocks the police because your spouse is being searched for, we say, heavy theft or negligent killing or something, and you say: No, he's not here, although he's hiding in the cabin. Can you get an interest in court? – No, you can’t, because you’re finally subject to family privilege, and no immediate relative is invited to approach the spouse’s spouse, so to speak. Same situation: They're home. At the door this time the foreign police are ringing and asking where your husband is, he doesn't have a legal residence permit. He's hiding in the cabin, and you say you don't know where he is. Skill You're interested in court? – Yes, and so did it. A woman in this very situation was sentenced to two months because she was not willing to deliver her own husband to the foreign police. This is justified in the Foreign Police Act with the benefit of illegal residence. This is, by the way, completely unheard-of if I have otherwise regulated this in other criminal law with family privilege, and it is particularly contrary to the Additional Protocol, which states that such a thing is only of criminal interest or can be prosecuted if it confers a material, financial advantage. Only then, if I hide a person with profit, can this be made an accusation to me, but not if it is my own spouse or a direct relative. Thus, in the Austrian Foreign Police Act, we have a completely superfluous system which is contrary to the Additional Protocol that we are adopting here today. In order to correct this, I should like to make a motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Weinzinger, friends and friends on the denunciation paragraphs in foreign law, which I have just explained. The application is as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] We had a debate on this in the committee, too, in the judicial committee. On the basis of a completely succinct argument, this was rejected there, namely on the grounds that: Although the content of the argument is justified, this is actually an inconsistency and a contradiction in the matter, the judicial committee is the wrong committee. Now I assume that the plenary session is the appropriate place where we can all agree to decide on matters and not to have to deal with Rules of Procedure, whether this is the right committee or not, for it can only be the right plenary session and not the wrong one. That's what I'm going to assume. I'm allowed They therefore call on the Greens to agree to this motion for a resolution, and on a very concrete point where this Additional Protocol must be implemented in Austria, to ensure that we have coherence in the legislation. And by the way, I would be very pleased if, in the future, we finally decided to do the thing as such and not always put a reservation of fulfillment on international conventions, protocols and co. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26129	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Weinzinger, my friends and friends, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26183	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke as the next speaker. He made a speech time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26204	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As has already been discussed in the Committee, this project is only acceptable because it is coherent and reasonable. It would also be necessary to add that the international community is doing this because we all too often have the situation that high intentions seem to be realized on paper but are not implemented in nature. An up-to-date example is the Frontex system, where it was rightly referred to earlier that the mass of the towings were carried out across the sea and that it was evident that Spain and Italy were, by lack of political will, by lack of political power, however, but from the nature of the matter, significantly and massively undermine the Schengen Agreement. From Spain we know this: The sea refugees are admitted – that they cannot stay by the sea, is of course – then they are in the country for a while, then they are illegal for a time in the country, then they have free access to the country. After a few years, there will be a permanent right of residence without further provision and without further votes, the legislative step will be taken by Spain, and thus they are in the Schengen area, which means they are in Europe. As a result, this is a clearly illegal practice of international law, where we can only poke at the door of the Spaniards, so to speak, and say: That's not how it is! – That has already happened. On the occasion of the consultation with this matter, however, the Federal Government must also be called upon, in accordance with the promises and agreements of Frontex, the appropriate instruments, the maritime countries Spain and Italy, to provide the material resources they need in order to recognize the refugees in good time and to prevent this inflow by means of the promised and agreed means. For Frontex was, as we had to learn from the newspapers, in not implemented at all because the funds have not been made available and have not been made available by the EU Member States. This is a cryout practice, a massive, flagrant violation of EU-level agreements. On the occasion of today's debate, it may also be necessary to place an appropriate level of attention on the fact that what we decide today and then transfer to the Austrian legal matter through the creation of appropriate instruments is also perceived in the same depth by the other Contracting States. Otherwise, there is nothing else to say about it. The essential thing has already been said, lies in writing before us, and we will also give our consent to it. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26250	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26271	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister – for the third time! High house! It is now really clear to everyone that this Additional Protocol complements the United Nations Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime. This Additional Protocol will, in logical consequence, also find the BZÖ's approval, because the content and national implementation of the latter United Nations Convention will be reflected in the 2005 foreign law package in a very successful way. I would, however, like to speak, after having been said very much on this subject in substance, also to speak of actions in the Committee on Justice, which really do not agree with us and which are addressed here, because otherwise they do not see the light of the public, namely the treatment of applications, specifically a BZÖ request concerning the financial security of minors, who, in the opinion of the majority in this Committee of Justice, did not have the importance of being equally supported by all, but who had been postponed for a second time after one of the last meetings before the summer. I must say that it would have been very important to devote ourselves to these issues, since there is still the problem that there are young people, that there are children who fall into the hole between a lack of maintenance claim and a correspondingly severe access to social assistance. We have to find a way out of this, and it cannot always be said that it is working on a solution in the Ministry of Justice and in various working groups divided between the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. Before the summer it has been said that there will be a solution until autumn. We agreed to a delay at the time, because we meant that there would then be a comprehensive and competent solution from the ministries. This time it has been said that a solution has not yet been drawn up; there will be any solution by the end of the year, albeit not in writing. We say: Such topics as our children and young people in Austria, which concern our minors, should be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26310	The next speaker was Mr Pendl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26332	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me just say a short sentence on the comments made by Mr Weinzinger. We all have in common – we remember! – the discussions and deliberations on foreign law. So everyone knows where this foreign law was committeeed. I do not think it would be useful for committees to begin to interfere in terms of content in another committee, which, although theoretically, was going on. I do not want a parliamentarian or a parliamentarian to agree on anything, but I think it belongs to this committee. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Today is Plenum! There's no need to interfere!]] Since we have jointly undertaken that there should also be an evaluation of the right of foreigners, this matter really belongs there. I don't think there's anything else behind that. In terms of content, I think, we have already said something about this in committee. In principle, however, I would like to say something about this supplementary protocol, which can only be welcomed, because on the one hand, we always want nothing to happen, we always want uniform standards. I believe that we are getting uniform international standards here, and I also believe that it is important, of course, that it is not equally important for the towing industry, both on land and on the sea and on the air, in all areas, but that is an international agreement, an international regulation – including the forgery of documents – to create criminal offences. Most importantly, it is very important that the danger of the towed – because it is usually still taking place under inhuman conditions – is an obstacle in this context. I would, however, like to express my sincere thanks to both the executive and the federal authorities for this chapter, but also for my group's name to the officials. It is not an easy task they have, and everyone knows everything better afterwards. I think they deserve our common thank you, and I would like to express it here today. [[It is in favour of SPÖ and ÖVP, as well as of Green MEPs.]] We are, of course, very happy to agree to this additional protocol.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26369	Next, Mr Praßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26391	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen here in the High House! The aim of this Additional Protocol against Migrants' Towing on the Land, Sea and Airway is to provide better support for victims of trafficking in human beings, to ensure that the perpetrators are more consistently persecuted and punished accordingly. It is also intended to combat trafficking in human beings with preventive measures in this way. In addition to some of the provisions which have already been put forward by my previous speakers, I would like to perhaps address one point, namely: specific provisions have been drawn up for tow at sea, and I believe that the consequences will and will be very good. The Contracting States shall cooperate very intensively with regard to the towing of migrants by sea and shall endeavour to combat them also in accordance with the law of the sea. This will make it possible for the future to face up to this gross disregard for human rights, which represents trafficking in human beings, and I believe that with our decision-making today we are taking a very big step forward. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26427	Next item is the list of speakers, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26448	Ladies and gentlemen! There are questions for me. We had a meeting of the Committee on Justice, in which this motion for a resolution was tabled by Mrs Weinzinger, and there was unanimous agreement: This is important, we share this concern, we have only one problem, and that is our Rules of Procedure. This request is addressed to the Minister of the Interior and not to the valued Minister of Justice, therefore, as much as we share the whole, we are forced to reject this request, but of course we are getting closer to the content. We have had to take note of this, but Mr Weinzinger has done the only right thing, she has turned to the relevant body, and that is the National Council. But now we suddenly hear something else. It must be evaluated. Mr Pendl – he's not here – I ask you: [[Abg. Dr. Brigid Weinzinger: He's here!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: He can't be overlooked! - Otto, he's looking over you!]] What does Red Black want to evaluate? Do you want to evaluate how many members have been criminalized by § 115 Foreign Law? Do you want to evaluate how many relatives have become denunciators? Do you want to evaluate how many relatives have approached other members? – I don't think there's anything to evaluate, but it's a single question: Do you want to change § 115 or not? Is that what you're getting married or is you too cowardly? Or otherwise formulated for you: Will SPÖ and ÖVP overtake the FPÖ on the right? Do you want the FPÖ to clearly represent a higher rule of law here in the house than the great coalition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26496	The next item is the report by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner, with 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26518	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Migration in general and towing in particular represent massive problems of our time. The FPÖ as a security party has always been committed to restrictive measures in this matter. Of course, my group will give its approval to the Government's proposal against the tow industry. It is necessary here to deal with these disdainful organizations and individuals with all the hardness. The issue is very important, and the ÖVP should have recognised it, above all, because – we all know the case – the ÖVP country member Gumpinger in Upper Austria has been sentenced for towing and infidelity. First of all, it must be stressed that the judgment is not legal, but we see that there are obviously very bad interrelations here, and the case of Gumpinger raises a lot of questions at all. Above all, my question to the ÖVP would be whether Mr Gumpinger is still a member of the ÖVP, whether one has already distanced himself from Mr Gumpinger by the ÖVP, whether you also feel sorry for Mr Gumpinger, because it has been said - in the press mirror which is sent to all the Members in Upper Austria - that there have been various ÖVP politicians who have said we have had pity for Mr Gumpinger. [[Abg. Steibl: What does this have to do with this item on the agenda?]] I do not feel sorry for Mr. Gumpinger, I feel sorry for those people who have been dragged. I also feel sorry for the rural aid which has been carried down massively by this process. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And here I would like to have a removal of the ÖVP as it does in this case. You can't make yourself here and demand hardness, in your own rows you have to look at it. In this context, I also need an APA message... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] – I know when the calls are loud in the public sector, then you’re right; so yell You're a little louder! – I will read an APA message: ‘Employees...’ [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] I have said that the judgment is not valid. So APA message: “The ambassadors reported that requests for the issuing of visas were very frequent and to a large extent received by the Landlerhilfe. To this end, necessary documents were often falsified. It has also become known that some people have no longer returned to their home country from their journey. They were in the Schengen area – under quotations – ‘sicked’, had resulted in the verification of a sample. That is why the granting of visas has been temporarily discontinued. This has been told by Gumpinger. But this one made pressure. In one case, he called the Administrative Court and, in the view of the Ambassadors, had success because of a formal error. In another case, he threatened to use the highest court. The ambassador himself then approved the visa in confidence in the credibility of the countryman and the merits of the Landlerhilfe.’ My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think that just has to look at justice, because you have to ask yourself in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs what happened here at the embassies. Have you already taken action here? Have you ever looked at that carefully? Did you contact the Foreign Minister here once? I can only tell you one thing: We're going to take a very close look at this, whatever happened. And then the ÖVP cannot go there with stands like those of Mr Platter's Minister of the Interior: It's all clean, correct, state-bearing party, world security champion. – So you are not such a World Security Master if you look at the case in Upper Austria, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. That's what we're looking at. As far as the Green motion for a resolution is concerned, I should like to exercise some caution. We are all aware of the rights of refusal of testimony and refusal of expression, the question is only whether the facts you describe concern a question of the right of refusal of testimony and of refusal of expression in respect of relatives or whether there is at least a contribution party here. That is why, I believe, one has to look at this very carefully in order not to create opportunities here in foreign law to further promote abuse. There are already a lot of other problems in this area, and I think that should be considered very carefully legally. If it is uneven, then it is unheard-of, if not, then, please, you can't just go over there, you can't just say, now we're making a motion for a resolution and then let's go on looking. These are things you need to look closely at. Otherwise, of course, one can agree with this government proposal. We will, of course, take a closer look at the issue of visas in the East. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26575	Next item on the speaker list: Mr Köfer. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26597	Madam President, Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! What are 32 innocent Haflinger horses of the Jägerbataillon's Tragtier Staff 26 in Spittal on the Drau with the additional protocol against the tow on the land, sea and air road to the Convention of Do United Nations face cross-border organised crime? – Now, really a lot, because for many years this Tragtier season saw, the soldiers of the Turkish barracks of my city on the Burgenian border service, in order to prevent, among other things, exactly what was the subject of the meeting today: Man-driving. At this point, thank all the soldiers who really serve in every weather and under the most difficult conditions on the Burgenian border to protect our people. [[Complementary of the Abg. Pepper.]] The Jägerbataillon 26 from Spittal has been in use 26 times since the beginning of the border security in November 1990, and twelve times have been with these famous 32 animals. But behind the word “driving ” is not only a huge business, but it also conceals suffering and misery. The towing of people has now become a very manageable and globally unfortunately organized business, in which huge sums are implemented. The 2000 Constitutional Protection Report speaks of €5 billion, which will be implemented annually in Europe alone. Towing is what it is: a criminal action that must be fought jointly across all borders, and the additional protocol adopted today is the right answer. But what needs to follow now is consistent implementation, i.e.: The movement of the Schengen border to the East means that border security must not be neglected and that the veiling at Austria's borders must be carried on intensively, either solely because of the deterrence, or where it is necessary. In this context, however, it should also be pointed out that every night many small trucks with Romanian, Bulgarian or Polish licenses frequent our motorways, and here the Federal Minister Platter is asked to ensure that these small-vehicle columns are more controlled. [[President Dr. Spindelegger will again take over the presidency.]] Coming to the end: The Tragtier Staff from Spittal has done their guilt on the Burgenland border and has unfortunately been deducted. Now this entire season should also be withdrawn from Spittal, and I will look very closely into who has negotiated this reluctance to deduct it in the framework of the military reform for Carinthia. As mayor of the town of Spittal, however, I continue to stand here for the stay of the traditional season in order to make life difficult for the towpers on the Burgenland border in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26648	The next speaker is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26669	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Transboundary Organised Crime against Towings lays down global standards for combating them. To date, no global legal instrument has been available to members of the international community. This Additional Protocol against Migrants' Migrants' Migrants' Tow is an intensive and sustainable response to organised crime. In fact, towing is a classic human smuggling or aid. Since Austria and Italy are to a great extent affected by the world of tow, I now go specifically to our country, where especially on the land paths of tugs and tows act as a trader of human beings. These are usually organised criminals who, above all, are illegally bringing young women and girls with false promises across the border. Since the economic situation in Eastern Europe is dependent on the rich West, young women and girls are promised work in the EU countries through newspaper advertisements and mediation agencies in these countries. No conditions are required to be except for women and young people. These women don't know what they're dealing with. They are abused, and if they realize that they have been lured into a trap, it is unfortunately too late. This Additional Protocol will address the concerns of many target countries affected by illegal migration and towmaking, and strict measures will be agreed to stop the exploitation of the poorest.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26707	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26728	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Dear colleagues in the House! Mr Haimbuchner, with all appreciation: I think that in your speech a lot has been speeded up, which has not necessarily been directly part of the agenda. [[Abg. Scheibner: Towing is, I think, already part of the agenda! I know you're hurting!]] I ask that political change not be changed here and not in this way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But back to the subject: Mr Haimbuchner, I am convinced that we will again adopt a good Additional Protocol in order to allow for the police and justice in Austria, in a free Europe, where we can drive from the Atlantic to the Vistula without border controls, where we can go from the Mediterranean to Scandinavia without Haimbuchner, so that we can travel border controls and restrictions here, create another instrument and a balance that will prevent tow and crime from further exploiting. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: That's right! You have to deal with such people, you're right!]] I think that in this House we will still sign and decide on many of such agreements to compensate for police and judicial cooperation, and we will also have to equip the police with so many instruments in order to protect this freedom, which is so living in Europe, accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Distance from Member Gumpinger! Is it so difficult to distance yourself?]] Mr. colleague – and not to hurt others. Independent courts will also make good judgments accordingly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26806	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? – That's not the case. I ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take the places so that we can come to the votes. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Justice to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 170 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. I now turn to the request made by the Committee on Justice and Citizens' Rights, according to which the present State Treaty is in accordance with the nature. Paragraph 50 2 Federal Constitutional Act by passed laws to be complied with. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, within the meaning of that kind. Paragraph 49 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language versions should be made known by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Members. Weinzinger, colleagues in the Foreign Police Act. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[19:06:23]] 10. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-49, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, 2007/4 Series; Volume 2 – WIEDERVORLAGE (211 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26889	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mr Dr. Kräube. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e26919	Mr President of the National Council! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the ladies and gentlemen of the Court of Auditors and the President of Moser, who will certainly also do all the other political groups, for the intensive work that is connected with the three reports that are coming into the house today. [[Abg. Scheibner: We were already for him at the election! It's not yours!]] I'm glad that's happening. It is actually also a signal, because we have not been able to deal with these reports in the Court of Auditors. It is a signal of recognition that we are debating this today. However, if we thank ourselves for the work of the Court of Auditors on the one hand, I believe that we must also discuss serious and serious wishes and suggestions from the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, the Court of Auditors wishes for more competence. What's the goal? Is it the aim of providing more bureaucracy or of creating more costs or of hindering administration, or is the Court of Auditors ultimately concerned with providing assistance, recommendations and prevention? What are the three adjustments proposed by the Court of Auditors for the sake of economy, efficiency and effectiveness? – Zum First of all, it's about the communities. Since 1929, there has been a limit to the control of the Court of Auditors, which is fixed with 20 000 inhabitants. Did you think of shopping malls in 1929? It is already a bit grotesk that, on the one hand, municipalities with over 20,000 inhabitants have a relatively low budget volume and are controlled by the Court of Auditors, and on the other hand, municipalities of less than 20,000 inhabitants have a very high budget volume and the Court of Auditors cannot control. – So logical and objectively explainable is not! For example, in Article 13 para. 2 The Federal Constitutional Act looks at the state objective, is clearly defined – and it is also from the federal side – that the municipalities have to conduct sustainablely organized households. Double tests should be avoided. I am convinced that the President will be able to scatter fears of mayors. [[Abg. May. Hauser: He already did!]] Second point: public undertakings. I think that the trend of economic policy development is clear: More and more state shares are moving below the 50 percent limit, and this is a matter for the people of the world that is crucial – about the welfare of existence, about energy, about transport. I think that there is a need to simply correspond to economic development, because otherwise far too many areas fall out of control. In reality, it is not a flaw to a company when public control takes place, but rather a predicate, the predicate “especially valuable. ” One word on EU direct support: The Minister of Finance has feared that the Court of Auditors will be able to keep an eye on every farmer. That is not the case, of course. The President has also been able to disperse these fears. There really is no reason why EU direct funding should not be subject to the control of the local Court of Auditors. Very briefly: Today there have been headlines that do not delight us: Austria has a corruption problem. What's that about? There is a country report from Transparency International, and Austria has just crashed. It's about a corruption index, in which Austria is from the eleventh to the 15th. Place has fallen back. This is about the assessment of international top managers, and that is already very worrying. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is no wonder in the government!]] What can be the answer? – There will have to be various measures in the field of justice, but an equally important answer is that public control must be very intensive, that there must be an adjustment of the Court of Auditors’ competences. – This is the right message for this very sad development. Finally, I believe that the most important and best signal – and that's why we come back to the top ten – would be if Austria, if the National Council shows that one takes control very seriously. I therefore urge once again the right of a minority in the National Council to set up an investigative committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27007	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27029	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! In my contribution to the debate today, I am taking part in the audit of the European Court of Auditors on the conduct of the Federal Ministry of Finance with regard to the collection of VAT in Austria. The period examined was from 1998 to 2002. Sales tax – in about a third of the federal budget – is of particular importance for our budget. A number of them: 1998 – €15 715 million; 2002 – €17 639 million – a significant increase from 1998 to 2002. The controlling activities of the Internal Service of the Financial Offices are aimed at achieving a quality preventive effect in addition to the external audit by examining selected tax declarations. Special importance should be attached to the efficient use of personnel. This review report has not identified any significant shortcomings, but has made some recommendations for more efficient examination. The recommendations are summarised as follows: First: By default, the financial offices should be provided with the data of the tax results for verifying the internal tax declaration. Secondly, Standard evaluations for management information should be made available from the financial statements. Thirdly, Since 2003, there has been an obligation to issue the monthly VAT declaration only if the annual turnover exceeds € 100 000. In this respect, the Court of Auditors also considers that it would be better for all taxable persons to be obliged to pay a monthly tax. . I am glad that this recommendation has not been complied with, because this would be a great additional effort for taxpayers as a whole. In my opinion, one can also debate the reverse charge system, i.e. the transition of the tax debt from the contractor to the client, because there could be no such abuses and frauds that occur very often in Europe. A corresponding discussion paper has been prepared, and I am good things that we can be on the right track and offer appropriate solutions in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27080	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27101	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Mrs. State Secretary! First of all – although it is, of course, but nevertheless – a thank you to all those who have made it possible for this report to be reintroduced. Mr Herzegovina has wondered why we have slipped in the corruption index from 11th to 15th place. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Not “Wonderful”!]] [[Abg. May. Gäßner: Horrified!]] - Okay, not surprised, just found. I wonder why we were so far up in the corruption index. This was a relatively favourable place, because wherever one scratches a little – the President of the Court of Auditors – it is noticed that the layer is quite thin, where, as it were, legal action on corruption sometimes drives very clearly. I have, however, been speaking in particular about the ministerial offices. Mr Herb has also called for more competence for the Court of Auditors. - That's what I'm saying. The problem – excuse me, President Moser! – but not only are more competences for the Court of Auditors. The problem lies here: These are more consequences of the Court of Auditors' reports. The report on the ministerial offices is a good example of this. First: That we can discuss a report that deals with the years 2000/2001 in 2007 – thank God, thank you very much – is only worth a scandal. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Well, excuse me, it was then that less was done in the Court of Auditors’ report, because it is very objectively trying to establish certain points, but very well in the public debate – keyword: Causa Fabel and more – it was already clear what was going on in some resorts. Mr Westenthaler, you should be careful. Within two years alone – in the Court of Auditors report – 54 persons have gone through the ministerial office and the State Secretary Office. 54! This is not a small number, and so to speak – and you can see that too! – sometimes at the time of the week, the Secretary of State has put the bells in hand. One has come, and the other has gone. So it was – an unbearable state! A ministry and the interface ministerial office or cabinet are not about any irrelevant positions. There you really need competent people who are also able to work over a longer period of time. Obviously this was not possible by the ministerial side or by the people. – Only this circumstance speaks for itself! Second point: For example, the Court of Auditors report noted that it is actually unacceptable for staff members of a cabinet to carry out further management functions in the department. That was common practice at the time, especially in the Social Ministry. There was not only one who also performed management functions in the department. As a result, this was also the case in the health resort, and it is still the case. I looked at that. – You can read it in part. In the Ministry of Health, it is still the case that a cabinet employee manages a very large group. As a consequence of the Court's report, it appears to be null and void. In fact, off-the-shelf employment: The Court of Auditors is also concerned in its report with the example of certain persons. I'm just telling you the following: Only the fact that there is still a section head – and he is still in office! – which was then criticized by the Court of Auditors for having carried out secondary employment which he did not report, would have to be sufficient to ensure that someone somehow succeeds. – No, this section head continues to carry out his secondary jobs. In the meantime, this head of the section has been shown to have prescribed dead prescriptions in the context of these secondary jobs. This has led to an examination procedure. The head of the section is still in office. These are the realities we have to do with! That is incredible and unimaginable! There is a section head who, in the context of his secondary employment – he is also a cash doctor, consiliar doctor and expert, he has the time; at times he was not only that, but at the same time he was section head and also cabinet chief, besides all these ancillary activities – during this time when he carried out all these responsible activities, this little slipper happens that he writes dead recipes. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This must be said to the woman minister!]] This should be said again to the Minister of the Interior very clearly. But it's not just the women's minister's problem. Let me tell you another example, let's get away from the secondary jobs. Nothing happened here! I made a request. The fact remains that those who carry out the secondary jobs – there are also other examples from the Ministry of Defence – often give rise to the fact that the whole Republic is rubbing itself on them in specific cases. And what happens in order to better regulate these secondary jobs? Basically, hardly anything. Now I'm going to tell you one more point, and then I'm gonna close. One of the problems of the black and blue-orange government was, especially in certain sectors, in the blue-orange resorts, the immeasurable expansion of the number of cabinet employees. The resorts, which previously had ten employees, then had 20 to 30 employees under black and blue, i.e. under blue-orange resort tours. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true at all!]] - Of course! I can read it. [[Abg. Scheibner: I had one!]] Now I'm not talking about the Ministry of Defence. I'm talking about the Ministry of Transport. In 1997, the Ministry of Transport had nine cabinet employees, at the peak of Gorbach 27. That's a triple! The Ministry of Social Affairs previously had six employees, among the main/haubner 23 employees in the cabinet. Explain to me how this strong expansion of cabinet staff comes about! Of course the party work has done! And that's the point we should talk about. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Between 2002 and 2006 seven Ministries were less!]] Mr Graf, the problem now is: This coalition government has begun with a significantly reduced number of cabinet employees, with slimned cabinets, but I suspect you are the best way to develop back to where black and blue orange was, namely, a clear bloating of the cabinet. And we should discuss that too.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27225	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Hofer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27247	Mr President! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! I cannot understand the criticism of Minister Gorbach here. They know what's going on with the cabinet, “it was too small” for Mister Gorbach. That's why the many employees too. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors also deals with the effects of the Gas Economic Act in its report. It is hereby warned that a loss of the functions of Austria's long-distance gas would be associated with significant risks. They know that because of the dominant position of some fewer companies in Europe, the EconGas has been established. What I am particularly interested in here is that a lack of the emergency supply plan in Austria is addressed for the first time for the first time. It must be clear to us that what we have already stressed several times, namely that this dependence on fossil energy sources from abroad, from not quite safe regions, can become a problem for us. In 1970 we still had an import quota of 60 percent in terms of total energy needs. Today it is already 72 percent. We therefore need to consider how we come out of this dependence so that this waste of the emergency supply plan for Austria cannot become a problem. And for me, the most important point is a reform of the eco electricity law, a renewable energy law for Austria. And here I often hear the argument that we cannot afford to do so, the promotion of renewable energy is simply too expensive and is burdening consumers. Let's have a look over our border! There is a country that has for years had experience with an eco electricity law, with the Renewable Energy Act and from there we know that the use of renewable energies has led to a reduction in the price of electricity. In Germany, €3.2 billion is invested in renewable energy through the EEG. On the Leipziger Strombörse, this EEG has led to electricity price reductions of €4 billion. Why? – The Leipziger Strombörse works as follows: A producer, a power plant offers its electricity there, a certain quantity at a certain price. Then the providers are rowed: the one with the highest price at the very bottom, the one with the lowest at the top. And then it's assigned. On the basis of the information The most expensive supplier, which is rowed down below, often does not get used to renewable energy. These are mostly very old coal-fired power plants. You need to know that in Germany, a job in the coal industry is being promoted with a turnover of €80 000 a year, for many years. This Merit order effect has led to a electricity price reduction of €4 billion in Germany. That is, we actually save ourselves money through the use of renewable energies. This must also be said to us by the house mind that what we can access in our own country is causing us less costs in the long run than anything we need to import with long lines, with high effort. What else do we need to do to reduce gas consumption in Austria? We need a refurbishment offensive, a thermal renovation offensive in residential construction. That costs a lot of money: 80 billion € would cost to clean all old apartments, all old houses in Austria in such a way that we have low-energy houses, passive houses. We cannot pay this by public means, but we can force it by making a priority shift in the promotion of housing, namely that we promote that, in particular, which leads to a thermal renovation. Why do I still support houses equipped with oil heating today? Mustn't be anymore today. There are better heating forms. We must also recognise that the resources are at last: Gas, oil will not be available to us forever, uranium will not be available; enrichable uranium we will still be able to use for about 50 years. And then this move has gone in the truest sense of the word. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I have no confidence in an emergency supply plan. The Court of Auditors indirectly confirms that Austria suffers from a fatal dependence and is freed from it. We must therefore make every effort to achieve this independence. One more time to the Court of Auditors. I have often experienced in recent years that many problems in our state would have been avoidable if only the Court of Auditors had been heard. There are recommendations from the Court of Auditors which are often discussed but not respected. Therefore, in the context of a federal reform, we must do everything we can to ensure that these recommendations of the Federal Court of Auditors are also binding. The Court of Auditors is indeed doing detective work here, because the bodies to be examined are of course not always interested in informing the employees of everything that is going on here. Here thousands of thousands of thousands of pages of documents have to be examined. It is really to be congratulated on this work to the staff of the Court of Auditors. Mr President, thank you very much for this achievement. I hope that, after a federal reform, these benefits will also be achieved in the context of a better weighting Your recommendations are appreciated.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27316	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27337	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to continue with the appreciations and thanks, and above all with the President and with his staff for the excellent work being done, which also contributes to the reassurance of Members, because we all have a good feeling, in view of your work, which you are doing very well – I particularly, because at the time we made a very good decision to see in you the right President of the Court of Auditors. I would also like to thank you for thinking, in addition to your field of activity and assignment, about the state reform. They have given a total of 206 recommendations from the Federal Government, i.e. explicitly to the Minister of Finance. You have suggested your proposals for greater efficiency in our federal budget, in the close-to-the-counter organizations, a series of structural reforms which we will deal with over the next few years on a wide range of issues. In the course of the symposium that you have organised, we have considered and discussed how we can bring about an increase in efficiency in the Court of Auditors itself, after you have also thought about it. One important point that I have noticed here: to make the competences of the Federal Court of Auditors even more consistent, more decisive, to have them broadcast to the national accounting courts, so to speak, and to ensure that the national accounting courts are brought together with the Federal Court of Auditors. I believe that this would also increase efficiency in the sense of a holistic approach. I should therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I invite all Members to accept this motion for a resolution because, on the one hand, it cannot always be demanded that we put together that we structure that we save costs, and then, in the instruments that we ourselves have in hand, we are not prepared to implement a rigid structure in the interests of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27395	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Bucher is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27472	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27493	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to comment briefly on the sale of BUWOG's and BIG's apartments. 20 000 BUWOG apartments were sold in 2004 and around 5 000 BIG apartments were sold at the end of 2003. In these divestments, large real estate investors each did business, and in both cases the tenants and taxpayers looked through their fingers. Both housing privatisations were examined by the Court of Auditors. During the sale of the BUWOG apartments, an exterminating witness was issued to the Minister of Finance at the time, in particular as regards the project to use the proceeds from the sale of the federal apartments for the eradication of public debt and for the reduction of the budget deficit. The Court's criticism is that the sale is only economic if the resulting saving of interest would be higher than the State's loss of revenue from the profits of its housing companies. In addition, the tenants of the BIG and BUWOG apartments were severely disadvantaged. At the BUWOG it was such that the tenants were promised by the Minister of Finance to be able to buy their apartments first. At first, a quota of 25 percent of those interested in buying was held. Then, after the purchase interest has not been so high, the quota has been reduced to 10 percent – and finally only 5 percent of the tenants have made use of it, and that at prices well above the average proceeds of the financial institutions. In the BIG apartments there have also been blatant disadvantages of the tenants: The tenants were offered the apartments at a higher price, while the private real estate companies were able to buy the properties at a lower yield value. Not for nothing in the previous year ‘FORMAT’, namely, 2nd. June 2006 – Quote –: The BUWOG is a gold pit for the IMMOFINANZ. With the purchase of the former state housing company BUWOG, the IMMOFINANZ has a real gold pit. - Quote. The IMMOFINANZ paid approximately €500 per square meter for sales. Two years later, the proceeds increased by 35 percent to € 675 per square meter. That's what I did to the bow again to my entrance note: Some have earned a golden nose in this privatisation. However, the tenants and taxpayers have gone out empty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27537	The next speaker is Mr Gahr. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27558	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! As of the four-year-old legislative year, I believe that the work of the Court of Auditors can now again be devoted to the work of the Court of Auditors. We have some reports on the agenda today, which we have not been able to discuss in the Committee, and they are being discussed today in the plenary session. I hope and wish we were able to finish most of the reports in autumn, because of course new reports are coming again, Mr President. I think it is important that we discuss the reports in a timely manner, so that some of them in public perception are still going through. I would like to thank the President-in-Office for his statement at the last committee meeting, where he has brought us closer to public financial control over recent years. I think it was very important for us Members who are new to the Committee that we see how all public financial control is built. And we have also expressed the wish for the next future that we should also be brought closer to international control, as it is very often about EU funds, Mr President. I think we agree that something should change in some areas. We are currently discussing the constitutional reform, where it is also a matter of reducing double-tracks and lifting standards, and ensuring a continuous financial control of the federal government, countries up to the district authorities. We simply need to take note of some of the dimensions, such as the 20 000 inhabitants' borders and public participations, but also EU direct support, as Mr Herbe has already said, where it is not a pot for agriculture, but for science, research and innovation. Overall, all reports reflect a mirror: that there is too little professional management in the public sector, that there are differences there and there; I think of the Donau-Auen National Park, for which the Vienna legislation and the Lower Austrian legislation apply. I mean, that's where we need optimizations, and it should be possible to ensure that. I hope and hope that in the next few weeks we will work out the reports and discuss the reports again in the Committee with information professionals, that they will also be seen in the public, and that they will ultimately lead to the efficient and efficient operation of the administration sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27600	Next, Mrs. Dr. Moser will speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27622	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! The fundamental principle of today's debate is that we use the results of the Court of Auditors, which were laboriously drawn up on behalf of the supervisory authority, the Parliament, to not only expose the shortcomings, the errors that have been shown, but also, as far as possible, for the future. This one chapter, where we can do something for the future, concerns the ministerial offices. The other chapter, where we are unfortunately faced with shed milk, is the large real estate area. Mr President, on the one hand, we have the opportunity to discuss the Federal Property Company and the transfer of the Federal Property Property to the BIG, and on the other hand the transfer of apartments to us. On the other hand, on the basis of the report III-49 of the Supplements to the Stoneographic Protocols of the XXII, it is possible to look at them. and the XXIII. The legislative period is still very specific to discuss the BUWOG. Both times we are faced with reports which unfortunately say: shed milk! It has happened that on the one hand – if I refer to the BIG again – the sale of rental apartments to investors at the transport value took place at a relatively low value, and on the other hand, as the Court of Auditors repeatedly criticised and pointed out in its opinion, it must have been offered to tenants under more favourable conditions. That was a legal obligation. I can still recall the discussion in the Court of Auditors, where your staff, Dr. Efler, who has now retired, has made himself very much deserved, namely that he has shown that there was a legal obligation for the BIG to offer it to tenants on favourable terms, namely on transport value. But they had to pay the real value. As a result, the cost situation has been optimised: additional revenue for the BIG! But that was illegal. And we are now facing the fact that we must take note of this lawlessness. In my view, the responsible person, then Minister of Finance Grasser, should still be held responsible for this. For me, it would be a step forward in the light of the impact of the Court of Auditors' reports that political leaders cannot immediately remove their responsibilities from the office. Then there would have been a real long-term impact on the Court of Auditors reports, then one could really learn from it, or also draw political advantage from the fact that the Court of Auditors not only detects and causes consequences, but also offers controls that infringements are a little more serious to suspect. – That was a short time to the BIG and to the apartments. Now I'm coming to the BUWOG apartments. That was a much larger complex, it was for the 20,000 apartments. As my previous speaker said, the sale to IMMOFINANZ has been made, and the IMMOFINANZ has now made a very good business in the real estate sector with these cheaply acquired apartments. And again this happened in advance, before sale. I believe that at that time we had a lot of questions here in Parliament, so 27 requests were made for this sale process – not only as a service to the Court of Auditors, so that it has more materials at its disposal, but also as an opportunity to discuss this politically and to avoid, as far as possible, what Grasser had in mind. These questions have repeatedly shown that the Minister is primarily serving the large real estate sector, which pays large fees for deliberations – keyword: Lehman Brothers – and at the beginning promised the tenants that they could buy anything before it gets the industry. Only: He did not mention the horrors imposed on the tenants during the sales negotiations, in the estimates of the apartments et cetera, and they eventually and finally prevented the tenants from acquiring these apartments, and in this way the Minister of Finance could make millions more successful. Only: According to the Court of Auditors' report, it was too few. We will then have a second discussion. We now only have the first part of the federal housing sales here for discussion. There's another one. I would like to come back to this subject once again, and I would like to point this out in detail, because in the meantime there is again a new question and a reply to this question. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take this seriously, we are really working with the results of the Court of Auditors on prophylaxis, with a view to avoiding abuses which are now being shown afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27685	The next speaker is Mr Faul. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27706	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors, if I say something a little critical today, then this is not a criticism of your work and the work of your officials, but then I do so because I believe that once again the Court of Auditors system has to be questioned in the direction that, as in the case of state reform - and the colleague Bucher has already said - you should also be really stimulating, if not problem-solving. I am now taking a brief position on the examination of the local health insurance fund. The tenfolding of costs is not plausible, I admit, but it must also be borne in mind that in these six years of legislation, the information technicians, the computer technicians who worked on it, brought back to the start. Mr President, now on the subject that I wanted to discuss with you: What would you say to a close-to-state company that writes 10 percent of its turnover on balance sheet losses each year and continues to do so, which in its balance sheet report writes that it no longer has any room for movement, that it will have to cover the staff costs for the next year and the needs of loans, and that it will not be able to further develop any more? I mean the health sector. They would lock this company in the free economy immediately, and they would have to be left in the balance. But if this company is the regional health insurance fund of Styria – just to give an example – the state is obliged to intervene by means of contributions or by improving the organizational system, by bringing together the financing systems in the intramural and the extramural areas. I would really like to appeal to you, Mr President, because you have the overview and say: It cannot be that, at a time when technical developments in health care are continuing permanently, entire regions will be excluded from it! It can't be that things that are going and going on in the big city, such as magnetic resonance tomography and computer tomography, in the regions don't stop and that people are forced to go so far. That's not how I think it can be! I believe – and this is addressed to the ÖVP colleagues – that it is the health minister's task to devote himself to these essential things. I understand that you want to release a pigbread book, that's funny and nice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] I understand you want to dance on the runway, that's all right. But these things belong to the table! [[Abg. Steibl: But you have to eat a pigbread – if you look at it!]] Mrs Steibl, it will require the power of the Court of Auditors and the power of the major parties to act in the health field with the strong resistance of the medical board and the medical profession – the health speaker of the ÖVP is not here now. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Here!]] Oh, there he is! - Really! [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger beats his hands together.]] You don't need to hit your hands together, you just have to see who the big causers of the deficit are. First and foremost, it's the doctors, second, it's the drug costs, and then we still have... – A little bit of the pharmaceutical industry too. [[Abg. Neugebauer: A little bit of the pharmaceutical industry!]] I'll give you that. Mr President, I ask you to act in this regard. Everyone knows that the health system can no longer be financed, everyone closes their eyes and wakes up once you tell the truth, Dr. Rasinger. That's really it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27782	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27818	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! I would like to deal with the Steermärkisches Landeskrankenkasse (Stiermärkischeskrankenkasse) a little bit, as my previous speaker did. [[Abg. Faul: You have to deal with the Farmers' cash fund!]] I believe that the basic idea was quite right that it was right what this project of reporting, insurance and contribution was projected. Originally, about €2.3 million was planned. It was said by you that there were certain insecurity factors with the staff. The price has therefore evolved further. From the estimated €2.3 million in 1997 exactly €7.85 million, and at the end of the year it was well over €12 million. There was, as the Court of Auditors' criticism is, a great deal of significant management errors. In particular, it was the lack of a survey of the state of the state. This made a secure statement about the entire project progress impossible. In this context, I would like to say: Thank you, Mr President of the Court of Auditors. I would ask you to pass on my thanks to your officials, too. In my opinion, it is necessary and very important that the Court of Auditors also carry out this audit measure in order to bring light to light here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27853	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27874	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! – Mr Grillitsch, good morning to you too! [[Abg. Grill: Good morning!]] Mr Gahr, who has a little stress in time, as he has assured me, has made very conciliatory sounds here. It didn't pass me. I would like to take up two points from him, but first of all I should like to pay tribute to the Court of Auditors, which we usually express when presenting the annual reports. But after so long as no Court of Auditors report has been dealt with, as Mr Gahr is right, it is also appropriate to do so. One sees the fullness of the repatriation – and now I come to the first point; I wanted to make a few points, only at the next item on the agenda, and in the near future there is, as it were, a perceptive report for a whole year – that many different activities of the administration, but also of the public economy, are being reviewed. Once again it is good in the 1:1 effect, but even better and more important – we have discussed this recently – is the prophylactic effect of this institution. And with this institution’s Court of Auditors – the Federal Court of Auditors – we do not want to say, for reasons already mentioned here in part, that we already have something important as an instrument, as an institution of the National Council, as the government’s actual control, an institution which has this important effect, namely in advance. That is why every euro in the Court of Auditors is well-designed, although it also shows itself sparingly and remains constant in the planning areas. In any case, it should be: I believe that the border use of each additional Court of Auditors is much higher than anywhere else if one sees what is possible in terms of efficiency gains. So that's not the problem. The second thing Mr Gahr mentioned – and rightly so – was that in the first nine months of actual working time here in the House of Auditors reports hardly played a role. That's right. We want to change that too. That's where we want to pick up decently. We'll see how we manage together. However, we want to make reference – and I have to say that now, so that it doesn't just stand in the room wrong, which is certainly not an evil intention – but to the fact that the reports that have been submitted again refer to the old GP, regardless of what was in this GP. However, this has already been caused by the fact that the fact that the political groups – as far as they were then – were relatively diametrically opposed in the old GP, which has led to the fact that we have often not even found dates and that the reports remain. But now it's, I hear, everything else. Now everyone is interested in the control, and that is why the pick-up will succeed. A special example was indeed the ministerial offices. That's what we've been negotiating. In the end, however, the political groups disputed so far – then opposition, still in other colors, versus government – as far as information is concerned. And the opposition at that time – I can take it with you – did not understand why – I am only using the example of ministerial offices – a woman's fable is not to be loaded as an information person, vulgo witness, although she assured Parliament in a telephone call that she finally wants to tell me what it was like so that you can see how you might do it differently next time. She's been blatant. Whatever that can be assessed, all of this has been of no use. But much more tragic was the fact that the former Minister Forstinger, too, had to be said, could not be loaded – the majority prevented this – although, as a competent minister for some conditions in her cabinet, she would have had to speak and answer very well. Much more wouldn't have happened anyway. But what has been supported there, especially by the Court of Auditors, was something that no group would somehow approve of today, I am sure. But at the time, the majority relationship was that way; today we would probably talk differently about it. These are things that then hinder the investigation work or the control work in the house, and if we already have particularly critical reports, we should deal with one or the other a little more comprehensively. – On the reform of committee work, I may say a little more at the end of the day. Now, however, only more to the general debate. There will be an opportunity for all political groups to make a confession. Ours is short and quick: Yes, yes, to audit competence, a yes to extend the audit activity in the matter of the examination of the municipalities, where there is not only the strict 20 000 inhabitants' limit. The President of the Court of Auditors has already made compromise proposals. We also deposit here for the house: We are completely d’accord, as well as in the question of examining public undertakings, which were then defined as public, than only a corresponding influence is given and which is not limited to the 50 percent-plus-one threshold of ownership. This debate is also known. We also know that there is an opinion with the Court of Auditors. It was addressed by Transparency International’s very current “corruption index” – under quotation marks. After all, as far as Austria is concerned, my knowledge is that your predecessor, herder, has an important role there. I don't think that's irrelevant. Among the developed European countries, it has such a crash, as always one may evaluate rankings – I am often more skeptical of that, for which I would not put it too far forward, but anyway; I have now looked at it – even forever not given, that a country in the front places among the developed European democracies – once Western European, one would have said – falls back to four places. This happened to us within a year. I do not yet know why those who have given this in their subjective opinions have done so, and I do not know that immediately, but it is always worth noting. I come to Mr Bucher's motion for a resolution, which surprised me a little. I am pleased when an initiative is set up. It is not easy for smaller groups to get their hearings. It is also necessary to confess in writing to an opinion that they are placed on the table. Only: I'm too fast! I do not have the impression, if I read the text of the application carefully, that the request produces what is stated in the explanatory statement. That is because it says that the competences of the national accounting courts will be integrated into the Federal Court of Auditors, I say again. What does that mean for the national accounting authorities: that we need the best uniform standards as they are equipped to bring them together? – I don't have anything to do with it, it certainly makes sense. But whether they should fall away immediately, which would also be the possible consequence if there was hardly any competence left, I do not know. I would like to think about it again. I'm not putting this away either. But I can't agree to this in 13 minutes. But I think this is an interesting approach and a proposal. And we have – and this is now the last point – also opened up a new culture of discussion in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, where we also discuss these matters. The first example has already been mentioned. To this end, I would like to announce: We have many possibilities by way of Rules of Procedure, especially as the Committee on the Court of Auditors, to change several things: firstly, that the Court of Auditors, in this case the President, above all has other means of presentation, but also that we have other options for discussion. We have learned one thing or another in the Committees of Inquiry, where perhaps the other political groups share our opinion. At any rate, we could... – It is the last point, Mrs Steibl; it does not hurt like that again. [[Abg. Steibl: Talk time!]] We could hold a meeting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, for example, in public. The Committee has this in its hand; it can decide for itself, and so on and so on. We could improve a few things. This would probably be very good for Members who work in the Court of Auditors. The President of the Court of Auditors and I are in constant contact about how we can change this. It doesn't have to stay the same for 30 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27928	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the votes. First of all, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of this report III-49. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. The request was adopted unanimously. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Bucher, colleagues and colleagues on the elimination of double-tracks in the control of Austrian financial resources by integrating the competence of the national accounting authorities into the Court of Auditors. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. [[19:59:16]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-50 D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, 2007/4 Series; Volume 4 – WIEDERVORLAGE (212 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e27989	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. The first speaker is Mr Reheis. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28020	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! First of all, a few words on controls: There is a discussion on the control of the municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. – Please very much, the control is of course invited at any time. As mayor of a community with less than 20,000 inhabitants, I am happy to have the Federal Court of Auditors consulted. I just think anyone who has nothing to hide should have control. Above all: It can also give rise to suggestions – and the Court of Auditors is proving it again and again. the communities are passed on. We'll learn from it. A little transparency, I think, does not hurt here. But you also have to say at this point: It should not be so that then the County Headquarters and the National Accounting Court and who else controls everything; the control of the controllers and their control is not necessary here again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors, in your report III-50 you have also discussed, among other things, the controls of heavy vehicles and you have rightly recommended a set of measures in this area. If you look at the examples at the traffic control centre of Haag on the occasion of a priority action, you have to say: That's really the white horror that's playing on the streets. 2 500 trucks in 12 hours, of which 49 have technical defects, six forced stops were available and 14 ads. Chauffeurs are under temporary pressure, rest periods are not observed, are pushed out by up to 50 hours. Some truck drivers can no longer go before fatigue. And one said he was glad that he was caught, that gave him the opportunity to finally sleep. The police have almost depressed that for two years the condition of the vehicles has deteriorated so much that defective brakes and tires already belong to the permanent burners. And not only that the truck drivers are exploited by their bosses and needed for superhuman performance, these trucks are also a dangerous safety risk. But not enough with it: The European Union and the European Parliament are discussing the authorisation of 60 tonnes of vehicles. You really have to say loud and timely: Enough is enough, enough! The population along the transit routes is already threatened enough. In any case, the Court of Auditors' recommendations to the Federal Ministry of the Interior and the Federal Ministry of Transport must be taken seriously and implemented as quickly as possible. It is also important to support Minister Faymann's initiative to develop a 10-point programme on road safety with experts. Consequence: Traffic crimes are not cavalier crimes! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28068	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28089	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course, the Court of Auditors is here to control the administration. This is a fact that we are all aware of. It is equally clear that the Court of Auditors' suggestions are also taken seriously. However, one also needs to see that the success of a project does not remain somewhere in the bureaucracy. This would have been very, very bad for the e-card. She brings a lot of success, she brings many benefits. I think she's a real success story. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: That's right!]] The e-card brings benefits first and foremost to patients, because they no longer need health certificates, and therefore positive is the feedback from the population. The unpleasant passage to the pay agency is not allowed and, of course, the health certificate fee too. Some doctors even had to pay a fee if you forgot the crane license. All of this now falls away with the e-card. And, of course, the companies also save the entire paper war around the health certificate. What seems very important to me personally: There are no more abuses now. You've often learned things that the hair has become mountains for you. They have all really benefited from this e-card, and these many advantages, ladies and gentlemen, you also have to see when you evaluate this whole project. If the e-card had been delayed further, further high costs would have been incurred, which would now be lost. I would like to express this in this particular case.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28132	Next come Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28153	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President Moser! Reading the Court’s report is a little bit like “XY unsolved. ” Unlike my previous speaker, I cannot see this as such a particularly great thing in the field of e-card. If you read the report through, you have to find out: There are serious shortcomings in the field of project awarding. These are the incompatibilities, the parallel structures that have been built up, and the fees for the program director amounting to 120,480 €. An average worker must work for this for seven years. It is therefore important, I believe, to develop the system, to give the Court of Auditors new competences and also to create the possibility of accompanying control, especially with such large projects. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There's a saying that says: A past rain no longer needs a screen. – And just as you can see yourself here a little bit. Things that happened in the past are being revealed. This is ultimately retroactive, history has passed away. We can't change anything today. It is important in this context, however, that the state reform is finally being implemented here very quickly. You have a rich two-thirds majority. It is important to ensure that this control of the Court of Auditors becomes a genuine controlling. Every company has that, only the state does not give up on it. It would also make sense to set up a new federal office to ensure that the right professionals can speak every time they speak, so that exactly such things as they happened at the e-card project can no longer happen in the future, especially in projects that are so high, where you really have to say, in the end it was carried out on the back of the taxpayers, on the back of the patients. That is why we now call on all of us in this government to act as quickly as possible, to implement this state reform as soon as possible, so that in future we can no longer read the Court of Auditors reports after all, years Later, and then we have to be surprised, but so that the Court of Auditors reports are simply there and everything is fine. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28205	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28226	Mr President! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by losing a few concrete words on the previous motion for a resolution, which we have tabled, because it must be in the interest of the Court of Auditors to be rigorous and complete, by expanding the competences of the financial audit of communities of less than 20 000 inhabitants and of companies with state-owned financing, namely, of state-owned shares of 25 percent plus a share. This is precisely the point where in the past we often felt that some national accounting court – in the example of the EStAG in Styria – was overwhelmed and requested assistance from the Court of Auditors. It should not happen in the future if we already have a Court of Auditors working together and working together to ensure that control in our country is really complete. We are also – completely d’accord – in favour of the inclusion of state-owned companies with 25 percent and a share in this control competence, because we have also seen that the supervisory board culture in our country is one that works very differently in order to express it carefully. In the Banking Investigation Committee, we have seen for more than eight months that in some close-to-state companies the Supervisory Boards are not equipped with the knowledge and competence they actually need to be able to ask certain questions at the Supervisory Board meetings at all. And I think it would be very good for the members of a Supervisory Board to have some critical comments from a Court of Auditors in order to point out some mismanagements to the Executive Board or the Executive Board in advance. The same is true of the communities. We have different financing problems. I'm just saying, Cross-Border leasing. This was very modern a year ago: There was an American financing concept, which was carried to us in Europe, where some of the municipal councils were overwhelmed to decide whether this would be an alternative financing option for one project or another. There the Court of Auditors is at hand with its values of experience and can take some decision from the councils. I think that a Federal Court of Auditors with a continuous organisational structure would be very useful. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28263	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28285	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! In the Court of Auditors' report, I would like to deal with the biomass power plant in Simmering. I would also like to thank the Court of Auditors for helping in everyday work. in the constituency, because, in addition to the rapid calls for proposals and the economy, it also pointed out that the transport of trucks, i.e. the transport of biomass, is an additional burden for the population in Simmering and should therefore be avoided or reduced even under ecological objectives. These are also the efforts of the District Mandatare. And we do everything we can to ensure that biomass is not transported by truck, but via the waterway or rail network. In particular, this project is a very important one, and environmental objectives have been achieved in the area, so that the production of energy is also possible with renewable substances. Thus, this project is also a demonstration project in the environmental field, especially – and I have seen that – this know-how is now being further exported. There are also consultations in different countries where this project is shown. The special expertise in this project is also at the heart of the project. As with all the reports, I think it is important to thank the many really excellent experts in your home. This report alone ranges from the Geological Bundesanstalt to the labour market service in Vienna and also from the biomass power plant in Simmering. I believe that it is also very important that these different areas of support for decision-makers come to the table. – Thank you for the information and also thank you for your political support in the fight for a better environment!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28321	Next, Mr Magistrate. Gaßner to speak. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28342	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The Court of Auditors and its work have been very often thanked today, thank you very much. I always have a wish: I wish the Court of Auditors and you, Mr President, that your results are finally taken seriously. The second is: Mr. Bucher, you are always talking about Cross-Border leasing and that there would have been a lot of municipality councils. - That's right! Only: What do these councils have of it when the Court of Auditors now examines after they have already concluded these contracts? It won't benefit too much. It even seems to me that this state reform only concerns the municipal audit. Mr President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors, take a quick look, because there are not many communities that are still able to complete properly, and if you can no longer finish properly, then the examination is for nothing. One last one. I have read in this report about the examination of postal and telegraph administration. The Court of Auditors has criticised that the post office premises were rented in 1998, if I remember quite well, until the year 2003, which was not needed. This amounted to €450,000, which was paid for nothing, so they were thrown out. How many post offices, ladies and gentlemen, could we have kept this amount open? I hear it's all about it again, To close post offices. I ask the Secretary of State to do everything in her power and to work in the government to stop this wave of closure immediately and no longer close post offices.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28388	The next speaker is Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28409	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors, for example, - I am allowed to comment on the Court of Auditors' report on the Salzburg Council of State Schools - made a very big contribution in its report to the fact that abuses that have been presented in a way that is unpleasant – that is not a question – but without this sharp opinion it would certainly not be possible to improve them so quickly in Salzburg, especially since this has also been accompanied by a change of responsibility. In 2003/2004, there was still an ÖVP head of state with a national school council president of the ÖVP; of course, this one should have been said afterwards – and I am glad that it was not so –, well, the government did that at the time, that is bad. What have we done in Salzburg? – We have put together, thought, brought together solutions without debt allocation and really simplified the administration there, for example, made from three service law departments one single. This saving, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, is much more than the Court of Auditors' actual cost. That is why we see this small example of how important this instrument is and how important it is to accept what has been found here and not to see it as a criticism, but as a help to solve and avoid problems for the future. Where it is no different where you are not able to find solutions, you are called on to keep lifting your fingers. We are committed to meeting your wishes in this form in favour of the Republic and our countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28439	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28461	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! One of the Court's reports before us deals with the Geological Bundesanstalt. I have chosen this report because I live in a mining area and therefore this institution is particularly important to me. The Geological Bundesanstalt was in the field of impact of the Federal Ministry of Education, Science and Culture. The Court of Auditors made a number of points in its report which point to a poor organisation. It was essentially to be complained that there were many years of delays in the legal performance of tasks. I don't think that's insignificant. This was due to the lack of requirements of the Federal Ministry as well as the broad interpretation of tasks. Similarly, strategic priorities were missing in the numerous cooperations of the Geological Bundesanstalt with the international geology services. Furthermore, there was no master plan for disasters, and this, although the Geological Bundesanstalt is obliged by the Research Organisation Act to cooperate with state crisis management. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors has made numerous recommendations, some of which have been complied with. It remains to be hoped that the delayed creation of the geological map of the Republic of Austria will be accelerated so that at least our children can enjoy the completion in 2055. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28497	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Krist. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28518	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)- Oh, my God! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! In my speech, I should like to remind you once again of the adventurous introduction of the e-card. Even if Mr Lentsch sees something different, there is a lot of inconsistencies and inability that have occurred over the years. A few examples: Projects carried out without tender and without the approval of the competent bodies lack transparency in the individual project costs, summaries for external consultants, a company and establishment company that is still far too bloat today and paid for salaries far beyond the locality; a Supervisory Board that has resigned because it no longer wanted and was able to take all this into account; € 6 million alone in the years 2000 to 2003, which were placed in the sand as a lost effort; Project costs of more than € 125 million with particularly striking additional costs for awarding, accompanying and controlling and infringing the Federal Procurement Act. – This list could continue for some time. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors does not save in any of its reports with harsh criticism – criticism that is more than right; even because individual abuses have still not been eliminated. In daily practice, the e-card runs well seven years after project start, but not yet very well. As doctors assure me, software problems continue to occur in the week, two, three times. For example, a patient puts the card in the reader, and this says: ‘Patient not insured’ or ‘Card invalid’. This may have two reasons: either because the patient himself has not treated the card properly – that would then cry out for even more information for the patients – or because the reader's software is wrong, and that is what the technicians say. In any case, this is a problem for the acute sick, but also for the doctor, because it is not likely to treat the patient any more if the card does not work, and would have to send him to the next local health insurance fund, which, however, is no longer open on the later evening or Saturday evening. – So, without a doubt, a problem. The so-called O card, the ordination card, must only be used by the doctor in special exceptional cases. And as I have heard, the use of this card is to be handled even more restrictively in the future than it has been – in fact again to the detriment of the patients. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to warn and warn against an extension of the storage possibilities in the e-card, as some people think. Great caution. Data protection, on the one hand, but also the greatest possible customer-friendliness for our citizens, on the other, has absolute priority. That needs to unite the legislator meaningfully, that is our task.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28567	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-50 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:22:40]] 12. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-51 p.b.) of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2007/4, Volume 3 – WIEDERVORLAGE (213 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28610	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker was Mr. Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, 3 minutes of voluntary speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28640	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to comment on the review of the waste management concept of the country of Burgenland. The municipalities of Burgenland have already joined forces in 1980, with the task of collecting and reusing household waste. As a result, legal requirements have required restructuring, which was also completed in 1997 – with the result that a 100 percent subsidiary, the environmental service Burgenland, was founded, which today presents itself as an economic and ecological presentation company; a demonstration company with a lot of innovation and, above all, with a positive operating result. This is an example of this, ladies and gentlemen, that there are business companies operating beyond private well-functioning economic structures, with an unrivalled price-performance ratio. The Landfill Regulation has made a further decision: the orientation towards full combustion or waste-splitting. The situation in Burgenland, the fact that landfill volumes are present in sufficient quality and quantity, has led to the residual waste split. As the Court of Auditors also notes, this was not only an economic decision, but also an ecological one. The centrepiece of the waste management concept is undoubtedly the municipal waste collection centres. The Court of Auditors' criticism of the need for investment was quickly taken up and improvements were made. The Expansion rate has been increased from almost 60 percent to over 80 percent in a short time. There is also the right to praise the Court of Auditors for the rapid recovery of old loads, which is also a proof that ecology and environmental protection are being taken seriously in Burgenland. To sum up, the Court of Auditors not only confirms the fulfilment of the legal orders, it also confirms high environmental standards, it confirms rapid response to necessary adjustments, and it also confirms efficient organisational structures, which is undoubtedly a proof of quality for the persons acting. In conclusion, I should like to congratulate all those who act in the BMV and UDB for the successful work quite cordially.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28686	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28707	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to explain a result of the Court of Auditors' report on labour market services. Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour Dr. Martin Bartenstein made a request to the Court of Auditors in 2002 to examine the correct resolution and efficiency of the AMS. The reason for the request for examination was that the German Federal Court of Auditors had found in a review of the German employment offices that the mediation figures mentioned by the employment offices did not correspond to the actual figures. In addition, he questioned the organisation and performance of the authority. Our Court of Auditors selected five regional offices as a sample for a review. He was able to confirm the numerical accuracy of the mediations carried out by the AMS. The internal IT system of the AMS provided for appropriate arrangements to prevent multiple bookings. Also, the bookings made by the Recungshof in the selected five regional offices showed no error. There were some comments from the Court of Auditors on the efficiency of the AMS. Thus, the acquisition of open spaces poses a major problem. It was known to the AMS Vienna only 16 percent of the open jobs leading to employment. The percentage of known open spaces was also only 26 and 31 percent in the also audited regional offices of Vorarlberg and Styria. The Court of Auditors also determined the amortisation time of the curative measures used on the basis of the 2002 IT data. At the AMS Vorarlberg she was 2.13 years old, at the AMS Styria 3.2 years old, and at the AMS Vienna, the investigation did not show any amortisation time at all. It is amazing in this context that only the AMS Vorarlberg could present a complete list of courses, including the costs per lesson unit. The also controlled AMS Vienna and Styria could not do this. – An abuse which the Court of Auditors rightly criticized. In summary, the Court of Auditors noted that the measures in the field of social services, in particular home-aid and day-to-day mothers and fathers, had been taken. Courses, especially successful. Also good successes were achieved in the fields of vocational orientation and coaching for young people, vocational orientation for women and vocational and family courses. Courses for disabled persons or persons with non-German mother tongues were just as successful as the general job coaching for computer intensive courses. Here, the controllers of the AMS will have to think a little more. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and your officials for your really excellent work, and I would like to ask you to continue along this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28764	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28786	Mr President. Mr President, Mr Moser! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The performance of the Federal Court of Auditors has already been reported in length, and it has already been thanked for it. We can only join this. In fact, the Republic can be glad to have such a profound audit and control body. I do not understand at all why you have not taken up your suggestions, Mr President Moser, for example, and simply set up extended examination skills. In the end, this only benefits the body and institution to be examined, because it is only when reviews are announced that measures are already being taken and implemented in advance. So I do not understand this blockade policy in these areas at all, because it can only be better for those tested under the rule – once again. I've been informed. I know the situation in the countries, for example, I know how it looks in the country of Tyrol. I have also requested further auditing in the Committee on Regional Accounts, especially for the Landesausshof in Tirol. I have received documents and also a paper from President Mayramhof, where essential supplements and additional possibilities for examination and control are already required. Here in this paper, written by the president himself under the title “The basis for discussion for a novel to the Tiroler Landeskontaktshofgesetz”, it is rightly stated, among other things, that all municipalities should actually be examined by the Landeskontaktshof. Why should this be limited to some? At present, the situation is completely dissatisfying because only municipalities with more than 20,000 inhabitants are tested. The President rightly says that it belongs to all the municipalities examined. – Of course, all communities will never be examined, but only the threat of an examination does result in a lot of things. You yourself, Mr President Moser, have set the example in the committee. They have noted that the AUA review alone has caused the shares to increase by 5 percent immediately following the publication of the audit report, because the shareholders had the hope that the Court of Auditors' actions would be implemented. - And that's how I see it. If 65 municipalities in Tyrol have more or less really big financial problems, then the review alone is already a positive one, because one may then come out of these financial problems. That's what the national billing court demands. In addition, the National Accounting Court calls on companies in which the country, the municipalities, and other public entities with at least 25 percent are involved. That too is an important requirement! It also calls for the examination of companies that receive funding of more than € 50 000. At present, the latte is €100 000 when a reservation of examination is issued, but this reservation of examination is issued by the state government after a good opinion. The Landesfinanzhof has no influence whatsoever on which companies are subject to an audit reservation and can therefore be examined at all when granting a subsidy. I believe that this is also important and correct, because it is public funds. If a person receives public funds, then he needs to know that he can be tested and if he can be tested, he will try to use these public funds correctly, in accordance with the funding guidelines. It seems very important to me, too, that the request of the National Court of Auditors – and, of course, that it be in conformity with you, Mr President – should be accompanied by financial control, that legislative projects should, as far as possible, review their financial implications. That's a sensible thing. Similarly, accompanying control of large-scale investment by the federal government is absolutely useful. It does not make much sense, as in the case of the Eurofighter, to be controlled and looked at afterwards. – Please follow-up control, so we save a lot of money! The red lamp here already shines, but one thing I must already note, also to the organization in the country of Tyrol, and that is, I believe, also a specific in the country of Tyrol: The Landesaussungshof then finds – and he criticises this in this paper – that, for example, the authority of the Landesaussungshof lies with the Tyrolean Landtags President. In other words, employees are hired by the President of the Landtag, the salary scheme is set and maintained by the President of the Landtag, and Mr Mayramhof notes that: This (political) dependency does not serve the sense of independence. - Quote. I've got to give him the right thing. President Mayramhof also says that the term of office is too short. The President of the Regional Court of Auditors will be appointed in Tyrol for six years, with the possibility of being re-ordered. He says that even in the countries, for example, an order like the federal government would be desirable for 12 years, because only in this way can it be carried out independently. If the President has to take care from period to period to ensure that he is re-ordered, then this control and test body is naturally tied up and in its test competence actually limited. Under the rule, I think there is really a lot to do. One thing you should definitely know, Mr. Moser: You have the Freedom Party behind you. We are very satisfied with the work of the Federal Court of Auditors. I note at this point that during my work as a countryman in the country of Tyrol, I was also very satisfied with the examinations of the Landeskondektionshof, so that there was no irritation here. I hope that Parliament will be prepared to implement your proposals in fact – in the interests of the taxpayer and in the interests of all those who actually use funding funds correctly. I congratulate you on your work and wish you all the best, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28864	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28885	Mr Hauser, if I have your comments, I must say: This is actually the best recommendation to follow our motion for a resolution, namely to create a Federal Court of Auditors, so that these small grains are abolished in the individual countries. Because we're just together, I'm allowed to advertise. It has already been mentioned by the ministerial offices today, about the salary schemes and, above all, about the addition of the ministerial offices. I may be allowed to give the information that we have also requested from this Federal Government regarding advertising expenditure and consulting costs – just as we have experienced this on several occasions from the opposition during the last legislative period – and it has been found that by the middle of the year, about €3 million for consulting costs and €5 million for advertising costs were spent by all ministerial offices. This is, of course, a considerable amount – I say now, without becoming a polemic – for actually a small amount of information needs. In our time of government, the pension reform, the tax reform, the health reform, was really a lot of information to the population. We're actually missing this a little bit last year. That would be mandatory for information, and it might be in the sense of prevention, if there were still a party, a political group which, together with us, requested a special audit on advertising expenditure and the advisory expenditure of this Federal Government. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28919	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e28940	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! It has now happened what we have prophesied in the run-up to these three agenda items: The individual Members use this. I believe that the purpose of the exercise was – there were many involved – that this dense series of reports reached the house once again, even though the colleague of the ÖVP was somewhat confused. – Thanks to all those who have made this possible in the negotiations, because one of them is already guaranteed: The prophylactic effect of the Court of Auditors – not you, colleague of the ÖVP, but leader of the political group Gahr, but he is already sitting on the plane – is then a special one, although there is a certain publicity expectation. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] One of the possibilities – though today, because at the end of the agenda, there is no spectacular – is that, if you want to, Members have their partial clients the opportunity to discuss these things. – This has been achieved. Regional references have also been made across the specialist interests, which was our concern, and that has been successful. That is why I would also like to thank all the political groups, because even the President-in-Office of the Council has already made quite a difference at the turn of the year. But now it's enough to thank you. One thing I have already noticed in the actual activity report of 2004, III-51 of the supplements: unfinished suggestions from the Court of Auditors to the Federal Ministry of State Defense. That's a short quote game. The Court of Auditors shall: “The military requirements for the use of the new Eurofighter fighter aircraft” – you will probably never hear from me again – “will be re-evaluated due to the reduced range of performance.” At that time, the flood-water-smooth just broke out – you've checked it out. “Lauto Communication” – and this is now the replica – “the BMLV is the subject of a separate planning that will be launched in a timely manner.” The results of this more or less timely introduction have been studied intensively – for some too intensively – and duly in the Committee of Inquiry. What I want to say is: It is good that there is the Court of Auditors. In many areas, he cannot do what research committees can – that is why we need to differentiate it – and the research committees should be able to do a little more – that is, once again, our position. But there are two different instruments. The Minister, then Clubobmann Molterer – he is not present now – has rightly always opposed me: The Court of Auditors shall not be an investigative committee. - How true! So: We need the compendium of various control instruments. – This is still a semi-conciliatory degree. In the matter itself, there is another comment, namely what we have for budgetary planning problems there, because the predispositions eat up everything. At the previous item on the agenda, the hunting tanks were the subject: Yes, the Austrian federal army has purchased from the German army against the warnings of the Greens – that is perhaps not art – but also against other warnings sorted out by the German army, which was then sorted because of the changed geopolitical threat. Ours said: Mech package, great, we need that! – for what, nobody knows today – because it was so “favorable” it bought at the scrap value, and then you had to adapt and adapt it, because you can’t just buy it to put it on the meadow. In retrospect it turns out,... [[Abg. Lens:... at the Eurofighter!]] No, look, we've got a lot of Eurofighters in the federal army; there's also a smaller one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The point now is that 50 or 70 percent of these tanks have been bought to nothing else than that they paralyze on the meadow, and we now have the biggest problems of putting on the whole thing as iron anywhere. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Hornek and Mr Mag. Kukacka.]] – These are the planning processes in the federal army! There is a constant lack of money to implement the federal reform! So, to that extent, good work by the Court of Auditors! This drags through, and the chapters “Uncompleted Suggestions” are, of course, a very welcome reading. As the ÖVP now feels that it has risen to the control parties, this is also a rewarding reading for them in the future. We see ourselves in the Court of Auditors!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29011	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr Moser, spoke. Please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29034	Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! Now, after three debates have been held, I would like to comment on the essential points: Constitutional reform. – You know that the expert group has already sent out a draft Constitution and that it has been reviewed. It was also – and I would like to thank you – received a lot of examination results. A total of 31 audit results are on the agenda today. First of all, I would like to thank all of you for the excellent cooperation in recent months, but also in recent years, and I would also like to thank you for the fact that the work of the Court of Auditors has always been recognised and appreciated by all of you. I will, of course, pass on this praise or thanks to my colleagues who have the main responsibility for it. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] However, I would also like to thank the members of the Court of Auditors, in particular the chairman of the Court of Auditors, for the possibility of holding an up-to-date debate at the last meeting, which has shown that the concerns of public financial control have been supported by almost everyone. And I also hope that in the course of the forthcoming debate on constitutional reform in Parliament, this approval and understanding of public financial control will continue to take place. I also have to say that Parliament, the legislative body, of course has the authority of control, but only then do you have the opportunity to fully exercise your right of interconnection, resolution and inquiry, if the Court of Auditors also has the necessary powers to carry out tests in the public field, in the field of the state economy as such. Therefore, it is certainly a common concern – and this has also emerged in the context of the debate today – that the uniformity of financial control be established, that control gaps are closed and that control is also avoided. It is therefore – and I am sure the honourable Members in the previous series are also of the same opinion – that gaps in the area of local authorities, in the area of enterprises which have also been addressed today, and also in the field of direct promotions are closed. The need for this does not only result from the financial constitution, but also from the financial compensation law, it results from the budgetary law, from the national Stability Pact and not least from the economic and monetary union – I refer to the stability objectives which, as such, do not concern the federal government alone, but the general state. I also refer to Article 13 para. 2 of the Federal Constitution on the need for the territorial authorities to achieve a macroeconomic balance, as well as the fact that, in the context of the budgetary reform, it is now in the direction of the local authorities to reconcile their budgets as such. It is true that in recent years the tax association has become stronger among the local authorities that 55 percent of tax revenue is distributed through transfers to the local authorities that the financial compensation mass has grown by more than 60 percent over the last 10 years. That is to say, it is going in the direction of the fact that there is more and more confusion between the financial flows, where the communities also play an increasingly important role. If you look at the results of the financial compensation that have been collected today, you can see that this trend is continuing in the interconnectedness of the financial flows. It goes in the direction that the countries and municipalities will receive additional € 320 million per year, of which the municipalities will receive € 50 million, the municipalities will receive € 153 million in addition and the small communities will also have the right to be upgraded. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Hornek: That's good too!]] We have had this appreciation of the graded population key already in 2005, where the population key has been increased from 1 1/3 to one and a half – in favour of the small communities. This trend is continuing. It also goes in the direction that the interconnectedness of financial flows is expressed by looking at the area of minimum security, care, health financing or child care or language support, where at the last point more is made available to the countries or communities by €20 million. It also takes a look at the fact that the cities which suffer losses due to the recasting of the population key receive these losses from the public authorities or the federal government or receive more funds. In this context – the fact that interconnectedness is increasing, the communities are gaining more and more importance, the communities are also those who have a large part of the public care – because there is the possibility that an objective expert, an objective finder can also view the communities as such and make a cross-sectional comparison. I also refer here to § 4 of the Financial Constitution Act, where it says that the public burden is to be distributed as it permits performance. However, it is only possible to find that if the appropriateness of the financial flows can be assessed, if at the same time the networking of the financial flows can be presented and if the steering and sicing effects, in particular in the case of health, are worked out. Only in this way will you, ladies and gentlemen, also reach the net welfare effects you all want to achieve. That is why I would like to ask that the communities with less than 20,000 inhabitants should also be involved in the control. It is not a burden to be controlled, but rather an aid in the area where the Court of Auditors is available as advisers. From this point of view, I would also like to thank the President-in-Office of the Constitutional Court, Mr Korinek, for carrying out this event in Parliament, this symposium on public financial control; I quote Professor Korinek: I think it is right that the control gap between the municipalities should be closed. I believe that overall, comprehensive control by the Court of Auditors is a value that is greater today than ever, given the networking of the connected financial flows and the possibility of being able to compare. – End of the quote. In the same direction, the examination of the undertakings is also carried out, with only one aspect being taken out. At present, you have the problem – you have noticed it at the Banking Investigation Committee, where it has been a matter of examining financial market supervision – that it is difficult for Parliament to exercise its control rights fully. They will see that it is difficult to actually escape from control by reducing the participation ratio to just under 50 percent. They do not then have the opportunity to control, although in this area billions, or amounts of hundreds of millions, are managed by taxpayers. For example, in which direction this goes, see the example of the AUA: We wanted to review the AUA in 2000. This was not possible because the AUA objected because it felt that it was not controlled by the public. The procedure took four years. We were found by the Constitutional Court in December 2004 that the Court of Auditors may examine. In 2005/2006 we carried out the examination with the result that one can say: If the Court of Auditors had examined earlier, a great deal would have been saved, and the AUA would have saved a lot of money. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] Here again and again, I would like to point out that, when the Court of Auditors examines a listed company, the negative impact on the stock, on the shareholders – on the statements made by an expert in the Ö1 “Abendjournal” on 23.8.2007, who, after the AUA share had increased by 5 percent, justified this, among other things, by the fact that – I quote – shareholders hope that further parts of the Court of Auditors will be taken seriously. In other words, it is evident here that even in listed companies, an audit of the Court of Auditors is certainly not harmful. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] One aspect too, as there was agreement in this area – Madam President Prammer – also in the Austrian Convention. ==References== Meeting of the Bureau of the Convention of 14 May. July 2004: There was agreement that direct payments or direct subsidies would be examined by the Court of Auditors through external financial control. One point is that the EU is calling on national parliaments and the national states to step up their examination of EU funds. This is also an EU presence. In this direction, of course, an audit by the Court of Auditors is also going in the direction of direct payments or direct promotions. As a net payer of Austria, it would also be appropriate to carry out controls in this regard. You currently have three calculation methods when talking about net payments in Austria: They have a method of calculating the EU Commission, one from the European Court of Auditors and one from the Ministry of Finance. All three methods of calculation differ. I believe that it is therefore necessary to create transparency and clarity in this area as well. A point to be mentioned concerning direct payments: Agriculture's direct payments are currently 100% audited. Payments to agriculture are either through the AMA or through the national budgets when it comes to structural funding or through the budget of the Ministry of Life. These direct payments are therefore regarded as public payments and are therefore already subject to 100 percent of the Court's control. However, this is not the case with payments under heading 3: EU internal policies. These are payments in the fields of education and research, such as payments in the field of infrastructure. These are the TEN projects, where no audit can be carried out by the Court of Auditors if the funds do not flow through the public funds. It would be appropriate to carry out tests in the same manner as the farmers, in order to avoid double promotions or multiple promotions. Here again, a brief quote from Professor Hengstschläger – also known to you – the public financial control expert, who has stated that, I quote, it is not justified by anything when the use of EU direct funding is excluded from the Court of Auditors' control of efficiency. It is also a matter of taxpayers' money, whose attorneys of the Court of Auditors must be primarily. I therefore urge you to consider, in your own interest, in the interests of the sovereignty of the National Council, whether the draft expert is going in this direction, that these three aspects will also be included in the Court of Auditors' financial control in the future, so that you have the opportunity to be able to control and look in this regard, where transparency is not given or where the efficiency and effectiveness of the use of funds are not guaranteed. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] A short while ago, with regard to the statements made by Mr Gassner, whom I very much appreciate, he said that one should see that the Court of Auditors was checking earlier and making this faster, then it would be possible to start more. To this end: There are 31 reports from the Court of Auditors on the agenda today, with these reports - to be mentioned very briefly - being submitted to the National Council on 24 April. On 21 September 2003, some of the reports were presented. ==References====External links== January 2006. – But this is not a criticism of Parliament or of Parliament at the end of the day. It is currently true that the reports expire at the end of the legislative period. Therefore, perhaps also here, in the context of the constitutional reform or the reform of the Rules of Procedure, it should also be noted that the Court of Auditors' reports do not fall, because this could at least save these long periods. One point in this area, as this has also been mentioned: How does this look with the promotions? This topic has also been found in the newspapers over and over again. . The Court of Auditors has already made some indications in the 2004 Activity Report, and has already made a general recommendation that directives are very likely to be developed in this respect, in order to create transparency and, of course, to reduce the pressure to justify, otherwise, the policy. I would therefore ask you to take up and act here the statements or recommendations of the Court of Auditors as regards the public relations, information and advertising measures of the Federal Government. In the area of funding, it would also be necessary to take steps as more than €4 billion of funding is granted by the federal government alone – more than 800 000 funding cases per year. Most of them are not directly presented through the budget, but through the funding agencies. This means that there is also transparency, transparency, in order to avoid multiple promotions, but in the direction of giving transparency to the promoter, for example, by introducing a single funding database. Otherwise, it should be noted briefly: As mentioned earlier, this day has 31 audit results on the subject, of which 21 focus tests, seven cross-sectional tests, a follow-up examination and two EU follow-up audits. And also to the honourable Member Gassner: Most of the recommendations – which have also been made today in the context of the debate – have been implemented, among other things, by Mr Prehauser. But, of course, there are also some recommendations that have not been implemented, and I am here with Mr Kogler: that it would be necessary to look at how to ensure that the Court of Auditors' recommendations in the future, if they are not implemented, will receive more emphasis with your help. So there is also a point to be discussed in the Court of Auditors in order to make control more efficient and effective. I or the Court of Auditors will certainly have you as a partner. I would like to thank you once again in this context and hope that I have not been too long with my remarks. Finally, I would like to say briefly to Mr Faul: In view of the budgetary situation, we have submitted a position paper on the administrative reform, which deals with the health sector in particular, because the health sector is one that is growing rapidly, because the health sector is faced with the fact that demographic development is increasing – medical progress to the same extent – that only in countries such as Professor Lehner, in a study prepared on behalf of the Institute of Federalism Research, health costs will increase by 6.1 percent per year from 2005 to 2012. In other words, if one wants to finance this, one will have to make reforms, see that transparency is created, even in the way that one knows what resources are available and how these are used. The Court of Auditors is also at your disposal here as a consultant and insider knower of the administration and will continue to work in this direction. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29108	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-51 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[20:58:15]] 13. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany (III-1 d.b.) for the year 2005 (149 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29151	We arrive at the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Rossmann. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29181	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Mr. State Secretary! Dear Lady State Secretary! It would be very appealing now, Mr President Dr. Moser, to address what you have said about the financial compensation. Maybe I can do that briefly. In particular, with regard to the smaller There are a number of studies conducted by TU Vienna and the Municipal Science Documentation Centre, which show that the smaller communities are acting quite uneconomically. That is why it would be in our sense – and I very much support this demand – if the test activity were to be extended to the smaller communities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. A second point in the context of the financial compensatory negotiations is that you rightly point out, of course, that once again it was only about money and no structural reforms. This may also lead me to a report that has been sent to us today, which is the financial statements of the year 2006. There you point out on page 17 that it would have been necessary, in the context of the ongoing financial compensatory negotiations – they are now in their final phase – but that constitutional reform, administrative reform, budgetary reform, merger of financing and responsibility for tasks should take place. From the state reform is far and wide nothing to be seen, from the administrative reform is far and wide nothing to be seen. But what am I doing here? . I refer to the report, to the 2006 financial statements. No, far missing! We are discussing today the 2005 financial statements – in September 2007! If a board of directors of a company were to present the report in September of 2007, the annual accounts of the year 2005, what would happen? – This would of course be perceived as scandalous. And this board of directors would probably be chased away with wet sluts. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] What about us here? What are we doing here? – We discuss this very well, because that is what has been applied to us. This leads me to an already justified criticism, but it is not your fault, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, because you only fulfil § 9 of the Court of Auditors Act, which says until 30. The financial statements of last year must be presented in September of the following year. That's why I can't blame you. However, the closure of accounts is such a central economic governance instrument that it is not up to us to continue living with this legal situation. I therefore think that what we need is a much closer billing – an invoice to be discussed here in this House and in the Committee on Budgets by the middle of the following year at the latest. Because that would make sense. This would mean that one could then intervene in the current budget implementation, that one could use this financial statement as a basis for the following year's budget. With the 2005 financial statement – we have already decided on the 2007 and 2008 budgets – what should I do with it? This has actually become a worthless report. Let's say it again. The goal must be to get close to time. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is so important, because the billing can be an important management tool. He can and should just control. Can the closeness of time succeed? – Yes, I think the more timely design of the billing can succeed if we begin to think about desalinations, outlays or even enrichments. In the case of the product concerned, For example, it would be appropriate in the field of debt where, in parallel, we have a national debt report from the Austrian National Bank. In the course of the forthcoming budgetary reform, consideration should also be given to the balance sheet and success account, which has always led to a shadow in the financial statements. What needs to be upgraded and what is actually the core of the financial statements is the estimate comparison. In particular, it would have to be more timely, developed towards deviation analyses and supplemented by evaluations. Since a close-up of accounts would have a greater impact on the design of budgetary policy and this would also stimulate the parliamentary debate, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I can ask you to participate in the coming days, weeks and months, that we can achieve this goal, that we really make the billing into what he could be! This can only be achieved if, on the one hand, we are making it closer to time, but on the other, we are also strengthening its information content. Let me have a few comments: Of course, the financial statements also reflect the outcome of the policy. And the 2005 financial statement is the result of the budget policy of the black and blue government at the time. This billing was very much in line with the second stage of the 2005 tax reform. There was massive money pumped into the economy. In particular, the capital companies were greatly relieved at the time – we still remember that – of the time. Corporate tax has been reduced from 34 percent to 25 percent. An approximately equal amount of money was available for the relief of employees, self-employed workers – inequivalently, of course. The problem was, above all, that those 2 million people, whose income was so low that they did not pay a wage tax, actually did not benefit from this tax reform, although this would have been necessary in the context of the economic situation at that time, which was already significantly better than in the years before, but was still marked by a very weak development in domestic consumption. In addition, we still had it with the end of the To make an increase in the investment premium, which has actually led to an advance of investments in the year, but has to bear the costs in the following year. When we look at the macroeconomic parameters of 2005 we see that, compared to 2004, economic growth has actually declined, employment has also increased, but the unemployment rate has increased very much. At that time, the whole of us has already received the Wifo, which has, in fact, indirectly criticized this tax reform very strongly, saying that the growth and employment effects of this tax reform will be very, very low. At the time, the Economic Research Institute said that 0.3 percent had an impact on economic growth or an equivalent of about 5,000 employees. In total, however, this has led to a very high increase in the deficit this year, contrary to the objective of the government, which originally said, we save first and then we lower taxes. That reminds us a little of what will follow. We'll see if that's gonna work. And, of course, the 2006 budget is still suffering. We will see tomorrow when it comes to the notification whether we are going to stand by this 1.1% you, Mr President Moser, in the billing. I think, no, because I have preliminary information indicating that there will be a correction in the course of the budgetary notification, because the countries have not achieved their budget targets, because they have not been able to draw up, so to speak, the stability contributions provided for in the Austrian Stability Pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29306	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29367	The next item is Mr Krainer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29388	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, thanks to the Court of Auditors for the transmission of this federal accounts and also for the fact that more recent figures were incorporated into the summary which was then sent to us. I see the question of the closeness of time similar to Mr Rossmann – not quite that, but at least similar. It is not here that the Board of Directors presents something to us, but in fact the auditors, if I may already draw this comparison. The fact that this is discussed so late, of course, is also linked to the fact that we had a National Council election et cetera. In principle, however, the nearness of time left to be desired. As the budget is in figures, of course, the financial statements are the balance sheet of this policy. The fact that the tax reform has not arrived is also seen in the financial statements. Not only did people feel this in the wallet, but it is also seen in the billing: rising debt, saving in the wrong place, namely in future expenditures such as education, rising unemployment – according to Eurostat, almost 10 percent higher unemployment. It was only when the election was imminent that there was at all the first then, nevertheless, credible steps to do something against unemployment together with the social partners. [[Abg. Broukal: This is well observed, Mr. Cot!]] It is now, one and a half years later, not so decisive to draw this balance, because this balance sheet has already been drawn up by someone who is much more authoritative to draw a balance than we all here, namely the electorate. ==References====External links== It took place on 1 October and passed a judgment on this financial statement – not only on this one but also on others. And that was devastating for the government parties. Never has a government lost as much as in this election. - So much for the billing. [[Abg. Straight: Per cent mine for the SPÖ!]] I also notice – and I do not see this so negatively – that the Minister of Finance does not want to speak and answer Parliament to this old billing. This would also be strange, because he is contributing to the change of course – that we are now giving money to future expenditures, fight against unemployment, more money for education, more money for social matters, more money for poverty reduction – and this is in stark contrast to the grassy bowl course of the last GP. A few words to the future. We will not support the motion for a resolution, Mr Rossmann, for a simple reason: The government has already presented a draft federal budgetary reform, and it is up to us to consider here in Parliament how we want to deal with the budget in the future. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] I think it is reasonable that we clearly shorten this deadline, which is until the time when the invoice is to be submitted to the House. However, I do not need to wait for the next year, but we can simply decide this in the course of the debates here in the House on the federal accounts themselves. For this, we will be strong enough to raise the question as a whole: How do we deal with medium-term budget planning in the house? How do we treat the budget in the house? How do we do the ongoing control during the year? And how do we deal with the billing in the house? Set up a new one anyway. If, through the Federal Budgetary Reform, we also go a little from the input-oriented consideration of the budget to a stronger output consideration of the budget, then, of course, this also means for us parliamentarians here that we may be putting a little less input into the input but more input into the output, i.e., less time and energy perhaps in the preparation or decision-making of the budget, but more in the monitoring and also in the discussion of the outcome, namely the closure of the accounts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29444	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29466	High house! Madam President. Mr President Moser! Mr State Secretary! Today’s “Kronen Zeitung, ” that is, the 27th edition of the “Kronen Zeitung”. September, I have two clues I don't want to keep from you. Firstly, one year after the last National Council election, we can see an increase in the electorate's favour from 11 to 14 percent. I am pleased to be a liberal Member. The second remark brings us closer to the Court of Auditors or to the 2005 Federal Accounts. “Mr Strudl” here says something about the Minister of Finance – and it’s rather cheerful to say –: “To our missing tax policy, the Herbert Pirker in the “Krone”: ‘Sends the Molterer to Kur!’ I fear, however, he is incurable.” – That’s what Mr. Strudl says, not me. [[Abg. Mandak: Financial expert!]] [[Abg. Grillitsch: What do you want to say with it now?]] But now to the Federal Accounts for the year 2005. [[Abg. Grill: Very confusing, your designs!]] I'll be right there. I am in favour of Mr Rossmann and, in part, of Mr Krainer. The numbers here are actually snow from yesterday. They should only be used for this – I come from the economy, I know what I'm talking about – to compare what happened or not in 2005 and what happens today or not. If I compare these two years, I already note that there is no difference in the substance of budgetary policy between these two years. And I'm totally clear, too, why. In fact, the ÖVP, the federal government, was responsible for the budget in these two years, and at last Minister Grasser. And what should change in the budget policy in 2007 or 2008 if the same people are on the row to write down and pour out the numbers that have already been responsible for this in 2005? The Court of Auditors itself takes a very critical view of the 2005 budget. He says: The zero deficit 2008 is a major challenge. It is very skeptical whether this challenge can be met at all. What to criticize when comparing these two years? Public debt continues to rise, was €155 billion in 2005 and €163 billion in 2007. If you still charge extra-budget debt, you will reach 190 billion € today. That is, every fellow citizen in Austria has a backpack of €20 000 when he comes to the world. We pay interest for these recorded debts of €9 billion today, back then, 2005, around €7 billion. Considering that we take about €20 billion in the form of wage tax, we could save 50 percent of this wage tax – if you calculate back and we don't have debt. Then we did not need any tax reform at all, because we paid only half of that tax anyway. You can continue. I see the light is shining. I would therefore like to say quite clearly: What is missing is the very big change in budgetary policy. Unfortunately, this has not been done by God and will probably not take place in the coming years. It does not concern things that could bring money: firstly, to save expenditure, to implement administrative reform, to make state reform, to drive red tape, to carry out savings in health policy. If we don't, I'll see that this state will probably go to the tree sometime. Otherwise, I can't imagine. And these beautiful speeches, which are constantly being kept, and these insults should finally be reworked into action. That's what I wanted to tell you. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29529	The next speaker was Mr Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29550	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Your speech reminded me of your brothers and sisters before the year 2000. That's where we heard the same thing. We know what came out, too. Therefore, I can only attribute it to the sad look of a coming autumn day, as you now interpret this federal accounts of the year 2005. This is particularly funny, therefore, if one hears this from the great reforms that have been missing here. You were there once! Where did your big reforms remain? [[Abg. Strache: The Grundauer was not a National Councillor! You're wrong! I too was not a national council member!]] – That is right, Mr Strache, I have spoken of your former brothers and sisters, whom you are now always distanced from. You used to rejoice, praise, and wear on your shoulders. They were there too. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] – Don’t deny it! Don't deny it! You deny more often than you do. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Stay calm and calm, Mr. Strache. It's better for you. [[Abg. Strache: You had a wrong dream!]] This message has already been sent to you by the member of your club, Mr Stadler. So you don't need to hear that from me. [[Abg. Strache: Maybe you are his personal friend!]] Mr Rossmann, on a point You are right: It is not particularly favourable if we already have in our hands the new 2006 report on the same day that we discuss the annual accounts of the year 2005. You're right about that. One point of a study, even if you quote it, I reject it with determination, namely that the small communities would act uneconomically. That's where I'd invite you to actually do the test. [[Call the FPÖ: Do it!]] Take over a community! If you have such great proposals – I guarantee you – you will surely be elected mayor, and then you can show how to lead economically. So you can explain those things to us here in the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, show me the average retirement age of the officials and employees of the city of Vienna, that is the big city, and then I'll tell you the average age of the Upper Austrian parish officials: There are seven years in between! In Upper Austria you go to pension at just under 60 years – with almost 60 years! That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I am against it when it is said that the small communities would work uneconomically! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But the countries did not comply with the pension adjustment! Also Upper Austria has not met yet!]] It is remarkable, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, that the current government and its officials, if they are allowed to formulate it, have been prepared. [[Abg. Strache: Upper Austria is just as juicy...!]] What does the tax rate look like? What does debt to GDP look like? – Clearly falling trend, and you should say that here! It is remarkable to look at the debate on the 2005 budget and look at it: What remained of the prophecies of the then opposition? And what has happened to the claims of the government of that time? – Clearly, what the government prophesied, and not that, ladies and gentlemen, what the opposition then claimed. [[Abg. Strache: There has been a lot of enthusiasm for the ÖVP minus 8 percentage points!]] But: How did a German Chancellor once say? - You can still be failed. This also applies to the opposition at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29704	The next item is Mr Themessl. 5 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29736	Madam President. Mr President Moser! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Yes, you can make it relatively easy for you to complete an invoice. Now, one and a half years later, you could find out here and say: Yes, those were the figures of 2005. – You can accept them and move on to the agenda. And that's exactly what you're doing! This is the great problem you have, also in the budgetary policy you continue to post. Mr Rossmann said this right: A budget could, of course, also be an economic control barometer, not only economically, but also financially. You can stand here, Mr Auer, and say that we have fewer debts than before. You always do this in terms of gross domestic product. It's easy: If I earn 3 000 € today and have to pay 1,500 €, I am still relatively good. If I earn 1,500 € and have to pay 1 000 of them, I'm gonna fuck. [[Abg. Lentic: Nice speech!]] That's it. Due to the increase in gross domestic product, you expect as a percentage that you now have fewer debts than before, in actual figures they are as high as never before. That's a fact you can't deny. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And then the second comes. – An accounting statement is nothing other than the finding whether the budget compliance was good or bad, whether your departments complied with the budgets, and if not: What happened? Has anything serious happened over the course of the year, which can justify why the budget figures or financial statements differ from the budget? But you could also make the effort to look at the figures in detail and then build on the budgeting of the following years. You will not tell me here that you did not know the final figures of the year 2005 already in mid-2006. Now I come to the economic aspect of this issue: In 2005 – and we have always considered this to be positive – you have lowered Köst to 25 percent, and you have already found in spite of this tax reduction in the course of 2006 that you have managed to obtain more revenue, and all economic researchers have already predicted that economic growth in 2006 will be commuting at around 3 percent and could also be assumed from this scale in 2007. But you have failed to continue this good first step with the reduction of the food. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They continue to burden the small and medium-sized enterprises to the full, they burdened the medium-sized, so that he no longer has air, we are limping in the purchasing power enormously after economic growth. You admit that yourself, Mr Auer. Today we are talking about an economic growth of 3 percent. [[Abg. Auer: Allow an intermediate call!]] Listen, then maybe you'll learn something! And the purchasing power doesn't play. Income from income taxation has been roughly the same as VAT revenue for years. So far. Now we have a very good economic growth, all economic researchers confirm this, have already confirmed it in early 2006, also for 2007. But you have not been able to make the next major tax reform in order to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises and medium-sized enterprises and thus, of course, ensure a start on purchasing power. That's what you missed. And in the budgets for the years 2007 and 2008 you give it to yourself secretly, although you probably didn't think about it. Until now, they have had income from income taxation in an order of approximately €20 billion, and about the same size were revenue from VAT. With additional revenue for 2007 and 2008, you budget more than € 1 billion on income from income taxation, and with revenue from VAT you will be € 700 to 800 million. That is, you admit yourself that purchasing power does not keep pace with economic growth. I have to blame you for not being able to take the next step in the tax reform despite the recognizable figures from 2005, despite all the forecasts and all the data from economic researchers. And now you promise a tax reform for small and medium-sized enterprises and SMEs for 2010, where You already know that economic figures and economic growth will no longer be in this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29798	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29819	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! A word to my previous speaker. As the 2005 estimates of revenue have been criticised here, I would like to recall: We made the first stage of the tax reform in 2004 – volume: 500 million, 2005 second stage of the tax reform: €2.5 billion, the largest tax reform in the Second Republic. The uncertainty factor in the calculation of revenue was group taxation – by the way, a group tax, which was criticised by the SPÖ vehement test, but, as we could learn from the newspapers, the Federal Chancellor is always praised as the biggest achievement in Austria and for the economy on his travel abroad. - But that's just by the way. But that was the uncertainty factor because the estimates are far apart. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from 100 million to 700 million, the estimates have gone, and no one has known how the tax income situation will develop at Köst. But I also say that this federal accounts can be seen in 2005 because it was a consistent continuation of a very conscious, economic-friendly budget policy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is what we see today on the basis of the economic figures. These economic figures do not come from about, and also growth does not come from about. The economic researchers say that tax reform was at least – at least; anyone said 0.3 percent – crucial to half a percentage point for us today to have a relatively good economic development with a growth of over 3%. So that was a far-sighted policy. [[Abg. Street: The middle class has nothing of it!]] - Yeah, no question, but I'm still coming. But we have also said that this cannot be enough, that we must relieve all levels of income equally, and that we must also take into account that we have a huge potential for savings. Finally, the President of the Court of Auditors presented this in the form of 206 drafts or proposals by Mr Molterer, Vice-Chancellor Molterer. Saving volume: €4 billion. In other words, it would be time to move forward quickly, not to stop, not to wait until 2010. We see that only tax progression and, of course, the additional cost of living, public taxes or foodstuffs et cetera eat more income. Mr Auer said that there was no need for any action by the local authorities. - I'm not sure I'm very careful. [[Abg. Auer: I didn't say that!]] Well, you're right: They're not the nation's debtors – by no means! – and I am also committed to doing so and I am pleased that the financial compensation negotiations will increase the amount of €100 million for the municipalities. But it doesn't have to have a garden for every community. There are many means of disseminating which we still have with the communities. That is why I say that it is also positive if the communities have more funds in place in the future so that they can meet their stability pact requirements. But the next consequence must be that we have to analyse why the beneficiaries of small incomes from the last tax reform have not been able to achieve this profit, which we have all done together, and why the middle class has been excluded. That is to say, the medium-sized and medium-sized economy must now be in line, not only in 2010, but already in 2008 and 2009. This is what we would like from the Federal Government: further reform steps, perhaps even real reform steps, which also deserve the name reform, and not only a tariff reduction or a percentage reduction in wage tax and income tax, but a real reform that we have been talking about for many years, structurally deeper, administratively efficient, where under the heading more looks out for the income viewers in our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29875	Mr Bauer came next. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29896	Madam President. Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the discussion should be led a little more structured, namely in the direction that one actually considers a federal billing to be what he is supposed to be, namely a clear balance sheet, but at the same time also lessons for the future. I already know that there are several reasons why we came out of the rhythm for two years – through the election and the overburdening of the agenda in July – but I already want to make one clear: It is strange that the accounts will be dealt with by the way, relatively late and actually in a short time. If you compare: The budget debate takes one week and more to really discuss the approaches, but we do not talk about the outcome at all, although the result is very important. For example, it would be quite interesting what the result of what has been announced so much, namely that the tax rate is reduced. In reality, one has already financed income-oriented funding. And if one continues to hit the chest, how much the “greatest tax reform of all time” finds its precipitation: I have to say, actually, the result is modest. All of this has its precipitation in the billing, and I believe that it is therefore good... – I am talking about the billing! [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: What makes Austria minter? The business location has won!]] Apparently you can't read correctly. All right. It is therefore extremely important that we also make a budgetary reform that allows for a clearer control of the planning targets. But as a Member of Parliament, I would like to say that too much mechanism, which may then be exercised there, is not good. I very much agree with medium-term planning, but it should be a very, very flexible planning because I also believe that the right to the free decision of the House and of a Member must be respected. So when I think that Parliament's initiatives may be strangled by saying that this does not fit into this preview, I would warn that the Members are making a sort of 'demigration procedure' happen, namely that they have to prove in the requests whether they are going to do so. And no one has the rulework available to then discuss and argue until the end. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is therefore also necessary to ensure that Members' freedom is maintained within the framework of future budgetary reform. Everything else would be a deterioration of democracy status. I am also seeking to take account of the issue of the legislative period, because, in one case, the one thing falls into effect with the legislative period, the other is supposed to be involved. I mean, every new government has the right to shape its preview, its budget and its medium-term planning. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29939	Mr Dr. Stummfully has now come to speak. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e29960	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has already answered the question: What can be started in autumn 2007 with a Federal Accounting Board 2005? He said that you can draw lessons for the future. - Completely right. And what lessons do we draw from it? What are the trends of financial policy expressed in this federal accounts? Firstly, the decline in the deficit ratio, second, the decline in the debt ratio, thirdly, the decline in the tax rate. – Ladies and gentlemen, read the Government's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of program 2006 to 2010! They will find all three strategies – a reduction in debt and tax ratio, a reduction in deficit ratio and tax ratio – in the government programme by 2010. This is not a coincidence, because German chancellor Gusenbauer has also recognized: Tax down, makes Austria mint! That is why this Federal Government will continue this path of financial policy until 2010, which is reflected in the 2005 Federal Accounts. A clear answer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Surely this is a certain change of opinion for our coalition partner, but read that budget path as it is anchored in the government programme: We will continue these three strategies by 2010 because they are successful because they have led Austria to be among the top 5 in the EU today in all statistics.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30002	Mrs Mag. Trunk is now speaking. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30024	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Mr President. I have a narrow quality difference – I do not evaluate “top” or “bottom” – between colleagues Auer and colleagues stupidly. I share your view that lessons for the future can be drawn. I agree. I do not agree, however, because it is a serious contradiction, as the colleague Auer, whom I have otherwise appreciated, said, that the budget at that time and the speeches of the opposition and the experts contradict reality. If you have really read the speeches and comments of the experts at the time, then you will notice – and I am not pleased as an Austrian – that unfortunately all that has happened, which included the budget, despite all the warnings. First point: Stresses. – That will be your sausage, but you also know that purchasing power loss was the result. Second point: Unfortunately, topics that have already existed at the time, such as care, general care, education, science and research, have been erased and ignored from the table. This responsibility and burden is quite the responsibility of the new Federal Government. Mr Auer, if you think that the assessment of the critics and the analyses and comments at the time is quite positive, I ask you why the current Federal Government, which you belong to the ÖVP, especially with your Minister of Finance, simply has great challenges that were not attacked or mistreated at the time: Community law, EC internal market, EC internal market, EC internal market, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement of goods, free movement Then you said, as always, stupid as always, that there was no net new debt, but didn't say to it: on the side of the federal government very well, but the countries and municipalities have saved. That too belongs to the whole truth, and I think you should learn from the mistakes of the past. On the new budgetary law under discussion, I would add that I fully agree with the comments made by my colleague Bauer, who is a critical approach, have nothing to do with beautiful speeches of the current coalition, but are a great challenge for us parliamentarians, because we should not be deprived of our rights. Planning, reliability and democracy must be broad in new budgetary law and a solid pillar. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30072	The next speaker is Mrs Lentsch. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30093	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! The year 2005 was certainly not easy. This is a fact that we are aware of, Mrs Trunk. It was, however, a very courageous strategy, with which we have pursued several objectives since 2000. Firstly, we wanted to drastically reduce the annual budget deficit, with a clear objective, namely the zero deficit. We didn't succeed every year, but we were always close. In 2005, we then took on more deficits, for the simple reason that we wanted to reduce taxes massively. In 2004 and 2005 we then enforced the largest tax reform of the Second Republic. More than 60 percent of professionals do not pay taxes anymore, ladies and gentlemen. The third objective of the EIA was to reduce the tax rate. We certainly didn't make all of this from jux and tolry. The main reason was: less taxes, more growth and more jobs! The success is right: Economic growth is increasing, the economy is booming, the unemployment rate is falling – not because the SPÖ is now in the Federal Government, but because the government has been doing very good work since 2000. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] The policy of recent years has thus become a real driving force for the Austrian economy, which the Greens and the Blues now challenge. And with this swing we want to reach the zero deficit again by the year 2010.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30143	The next speaker is Mr Wimmer. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30164	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! At the end of the year, however, the federal accounts of 2005 are being discussed, and there is simply a need to allow criticism. Yes, this presentation is in fact “Snow of yesterday”, but we have already discussed today that this may be improved. We therefore believe that it is essential to implement this budgetary reform as soon as possible into reality. To be honest, one must also maintain that there is simply an imbalance in the importance of budget creation and then the treatment of the success account. – Mr Bauer has already pointed out: Three weeks we have discussed the 2005 budget in all facets, and today, at an advanced hour, one hour before we go to sleep, the discussion about this success statement takes place. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] I don't think it deserved the 2005 budget either! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! A modern budgetary law is an opportunity to put budgetary policy on a modern track, and that is why this step, as I believe, is extremely important. Let me make two more remarks on this conclusion. The government at that time, and above all, the ministers of finance at that time, has put a very sustainable budget consolidation in the foreground. – Today we know it didn’t come that way. The 2005 budget was financed exclusively on the revenue side. – You have to be so fair as to pronounce that. At the same time, it must be said and noted that the past tax reform has not reflected the tax rate as one hoped. If you look at the way in which the deficit has gone down, you have to say, honestly, that we have had a clear look at the euro area. I therefore believe that this billing is easy to assess positively, but the anthems of praise that have come from you, Mr President, are not entirely in line with reality. However, we will nevertheless give our approval to this billing.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30215	Mr Dr Maier has now come to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30237	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President. I do not fully understand this discussion, which will be held here on the 2005 accounts. I would invite all my colleagues, in particular Mr Rossmann, to take the 2007 economic report to hand. There is the chapter “Austria – A dynamic and competitive location”. You would read what was then 2006 what you always complain about. You would read that in 2006 the economic upturn in Austria continued to increase. I quote: "With +3.1 percent, Austria has recorded the strongest growth since 2000. As in previous years, domestic GDP grew more than in the euro area (+2.7 percent). (...) The value-added of the production of property was 2006...” – I am talking about 2006 and not 2005 because I do not know what this is supposed to mean. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: We talked about 2005!]] You're theoretically interested in talking, but it doesn't help you. So: The production of property thus showed an increase of 7.75 percent. The best thing for Austria – and I would have expected you to say that – is to export and increase exports this year in the year-on-year comparison. Thus, as far as the year 2006 is concerned, we could have discussed how pleased this development was, which, initiated by the then Federal Government, was actually continued by the current government. – I actually missed that, but would have expected it from you, because only a look back on 2005 does not bring anything at all. Anyway, it doesn't bring us any further.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30277	Mr Lopatka has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30301	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The federal accounts for the year 2005, presented by the Court of Auditors, show a very positive result. Whoever reads it will see it that way. Mr Maier, Member of the Commission, has made the following statement: What the current government is doing is continuing budgetary policy, which is also documented in this 2005 financial statement. It is the right way to go in these years, ladies and gentlemen: on the one hand, to implement the corresponding reforms and tax relief, but on the other hand to attack reforms in the expenditure area. I am thinking, for example, of the pension reform and also of the reforms in the other areas where we are concerned with the financialability of our social systems in order to obtain scope for an active economic policy. This has had nothing to do with forthcoming elections, but there have been correct steps: in expenditure, in the field of research and development, in the field of labour market policy, but also – which has not yet been mentioned – in the field of services for the families in Austria. This 2005 financial statement shows that, in an environment that was not simple, unlike our neighbor Germany, who at the time exceeded the deficit limit by 3 percent, we also had clearly a much better result at 1.5 percent than in the euro area with 2.4 percent of GDP – despite the weak economic situation, despite tax relief and despite this focus on future expenditure, such as in the field of employment policy. As a result, the government debt ratio has decreased and the interest rate burden on the debt of the general government has also been reduced. This is exactly the way that is now finding a continuation in this government. The major objectives in the last legislative period, this three-pillar strategy was right, the objective of a balanced budget over the economic cycle, the objective of reducing taxes and taxes and the objective of making an active employment policy. If this policy had not been made, these initiatives would not have been put in place, then we would not have had this positive development in these years – at this conclusion, the Wifo. A total of €5.3 billion was spent on research and development plans and on employment promotion plans at the time. Without these measures, says the Economic Research Institute, Austria could have achieved the objective of a balanced budget since 2001, but it was right not to stick to this objective but to implement economic measures. The Wifo says that without these growth policies, GDP would have been 1.4 percent lower in 2006. The cumulative employment effect of the measures taken has secured 63 000 jobs between 2002 and 2006. To sum up and point out: The key points of the macroeconomic calculation show that this policy was correct. Austria's economy has grown by 7.5 percent twice as much from 2002 to 2005 as Germany's and also stronger than that in the euro area. It is therefore only right, that the current government continues this path, which is documented for the year 2005 by this federal accounts.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30359	Next, Mr Kirchgatterer. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30380	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr. State Secretary Lopatka, you have just presented a very one-dimensional view of things here. [[Abg. Kainz: Violent!]] I will then deal with a lot of things, but it is of course very good if you can go straight to other arguments. For the time being, I would like to point out that it is of course anything but gratifying to discuss the financial statements of the year 2005 in autumn 2007; there is a long time in between. I am very glad that some of the previous speakers have already mentioned the future budgetary reform, a budgetary reform that needs to be discussed very thoroughly and where it is also a matter of defining the right direction. The consent to the Federal Accounting Board 2005 only confirms the legality of the Federal Budget execution – and in no way is this an agreement in substance. We are in favour of our criticism, which has proved true in almost all areas. That is why this new federal government has set new priorities, namely to invest heavily in the areas of education, infrastructure, research and social improvements. The difference to the former government is clearly visible and noticeable. The future tax reform will be again praised by the EIA, so it will be very different from the previous one in principle and in substance. It should be taken into account that the share of GDP gains has increased more for ten years than incomes have been more self-employed. In any event, a forthcoming tax reform is intended to relieve workers of the Austrian economy, namely small and medium-sized enterprises, and to strengthen domestic purchasing power, as well as domestic investment. It is very important that we have the confirmation by the recent OECD report that this is about more tax justice. First priority, objective and objective: greater tax justice. It is also important in the preparation for the tax reform to put tax justice first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30418	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30439	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I can draw a central sentence from this Court of Auditors report and say that the Court of Auditors has found that the legal requirements for the federal government's budgetary management have been met according to the data available for the preparation of the federal accounts. I think that should be noted once, because this is central. Of course, we can also examine this federal accounts. And if we do, we come to three central statements: that the public Debt has fallen, the tax rate has fallen and the general budget has fallen accordingly. I am quite right for Mr Graeule to say that, if we do not have such debts in total, we are much easier to deal with. But I should like to point out who made these debts. I have chosen this series of figures and I can see that in the four years of free government participation, i.e. between 1983 and 1987, debt increased by about 50 percent – 48.3 percent precisely – and financial debt increased by 9 percent, as measured by GDP. I should also like to say one word to Mrs Trunk, who said that care and general care are the problem areas where a solution needs to be addressed. – I can see that Minister of Finance Willi Molterer has taken a very important step forward with the financial compensation. Buchinger tried – and Molterer did it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is why, as I think, we can look positively into the future, because we can build on a good basis. The economic and financial policies of recent years provide a good basis and good policy continues. Deputy Chancellor and Finance Minister Willi Molterer is a guarantee that we can work for the well-being of people in our country in the next few years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30488	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30509	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! If we are pleased about the still very good labour market data and about the fact that in 2006 company insolvency fell by around 5 percent compared to 2005 and continued to decline slightly in the first half of 2007, we also have to make it quite clear that the sustainable and consistent economic and location policy from the year 2000 has only enabled these success figures. Austria is now one of the top locations in Europe. Measures such as the reduction of corporate tax or the introduction of group taxation, which is a model in Europe, have given companies great security of location. However, the measures in the field of apprenticeship compensation have not failed to have their effect. Together with the economy, the AMS and the countries, we were able to reverse the downward trend in apprenticeship development; by introducing the "Blum-Bonus", we were able to significantly increase the numbers of the completed teaching contracts. In Austria, 7 000 apprentices were more trained between 2003 and 2006. [[Abg. Sounds: But 9 000...!]] ==References====External links==* Official website In January 2005 no wage and income tax will have to be paid. Today it can be said that these measures have come at exactly the right time and are the basis for Austria's being so excellent in international comparison today. Let us continue this successful path together!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30561	Mrs Schittenhelm has now come to speak. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30582	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Very briefly: That the small communities should be subject to further and more recent control by the Court of Auditors, I say quite clearly, as mayor of a small community with 5 000 inhabitants: no! If we are talking about savings in the public service, it cannot be that exactly this area is being bloated. And: The federal states control their communities very responsibly. - That's just for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Reason for this!]] As it was said here – that's right; I underline that –: The balance sheet of political work, which is the financial statements. Yes, of course. We are proud that there is this billing, because that is the balance sheet of the government bowl that can be seen. What do you think, ladies and gentlemen, here in the High House, why can German chancellor Gusenbauer gobble through the world and talk about the wonderful economic data in Austria?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Scheibner: But he was not alone!]] Yes, what do you think why he can tell everywhere, how much our economy flourishes and that in Austria we have one of the best education systems and social systems?- Oh, my God! It's our merit, and we're proud of it: We have made sustainable policies in the past. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, remember at least one letter for the future: M, like Molterer, made a double budget in spring, which can be seen, with sustainability. M, like Molterer, has achieved financial compensation with the countries in the very shortest time: without spectacular themes, without tinnober, without any drum and dran. Molterer, that's the quality for the next years, that is, the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30648	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30670	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! I would like to comment briefly on this because Mr Kirchgatterer pointed out that it is anything but welcome that today's federal accounts are on the agenda for 2005. – Maybe very briefly the Genesis to explain why it is. The Court of Auditors held the 2005 accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany on 28 March 2005. ==References====External links== After the expiry of the XXII. ==References====External links== On 19 November 2006 the Budget Committee presented new data with updated data. In June 2007 it was treated with an updated leaflet and is now in plenary session. I should therefore also like to ask, in this context, that in the future we seek to ensure that the federal accounts do not expire at the end of a legislative period, but that they do not persist very well, because this will allow faster, more efficient treatment. In order to provide you with up-to-date information, the Court of Auditors has today also presented the 2006 accounts for the year so that a comparison can already be made here on the 2005 and 2006 budget developments. It is important, however, to me, Mr Rossmann's statement in connection with the motion for a resolution: If it is possible, the date of the template will be 30. 9. to present, for example, on the, I think, 30. 6.? Here too, it is briefly mentioned that the intentions were already going down to 1998 and 1999. It was up to the date that the federal accounts were presented eight weeks before the end of the following financial year, but the Federal Finance Act was ten weeks before that. That is to say, the federal accounts were submitted later than the Federal Finance Act. This led to an application being filed – that was Application 415/A in the XX. legislative period – in which the reference period is 31st. 5. was included. In the course of the parliamentary deliberations, this date was then unanimously extended to the 30th century. 9. extends from three points of view: firstly, with regard to the expiry periods which are available, with regard to the data situation or the procedure to be dealt with. Very briefly, so that I don't take your time too much: As far as the data are concerned, it is not until June of the following year that the calculations of the tax revenue according to OECD, the economic indicators, say the Wifo forecast of June, and in July the final data are available: Unemployment, AMS, Wifo, Statistics Austria, Net National Income, Public Deficit and National Accounts. That is, these are only available in July. Mr President, you have also referred to the Maastricht notification, for example. This was carried out in the past until the end of August, in the future – since 2006 – until the end of September. In other words, we have the problem that if you define a submission of the federal accounts at an earlier date, you do not have any final data, so that you have problems really getting the statement you want. Very briefly to the procedure: That's how it looks that the federal accounts are concluded at 31. 12. the annual accounts of the resorts have the basis. We've got till 31. 3. the expiry periods in the inventory and success accounts. The audits are carried out in the first half of the year in accordance with § 9 of the Court of Auditors Act, i.e. statutoryity and regularity audits. The corrections will then be carried out in July. As a result, the federal accounts are presented in August to the Ministry of Finance, which has a three-week period of opinion. This means that at the beginning of September the federal accounts can be printed, and at the end of September you will receive the federal accounts. I would therefore ask you, in the context of the discussions on this motion for a resolution, to take account of these aspects so that you have the product you really want. Very briefly to the 2006 Federal Accounts: I hope you can enjoy him because he's more readable. That is, you now have a very meaningful summary, you also have a glossary. That is why I am looking forward to the deliberations in the Committee and in the plenary. I am very open to new developments, as we have also set up a working group in the Court of Auditors to see how we can still influence the federal accounts, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and also with the national debt committee. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30736	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We arrive at the vote on the draft federal law on the approval of the Federal Accounts of 2005 and the title and receipt in 149 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Rossmann, ladies and gentlemen, on improving reporting through a timely clearance of accounts to the Budget Committee. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[22:06:49]] 14. Point First reading: Request by Members Bernhard Themessl, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Income Tax Act 1988, BGBl. No. 400/1988, amended (264/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30803	We're going to the 14th. The item on the agenda and the debate. First of all, Mr Themessl. Mr President, you have not taken time to speak. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Jesus! Grace!]] That means 20 minutes are available to you. We'll see how long you really talk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30835	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. High house! We have put this request under the motto: Performance is to be rewarded again! Since I have to note with regret that not only our request for a preferred tax reform to relieve small and medium-sized enterprises but also requests from other parties have been rejected by the government parties, we would like to encourage you to look at at least a little in the future for performance, to pay a little more attention to performance and thus to contribute at least a little to the increase in purchasing power. I quote from the “Wiener Zeitung” of yesterday: ‘Purchasing power on mountain and valley trip’. ‘Wifo: Maximum net income in 1992’. And on top of that: “The domestic economy has been growing for years, but purchasing power is only partly involved. Thus, the monthly net income as a measure for the real purchasing power 2006 in Austria was slightly below the purchasing power of 1992. To do this, you can only “gratulate”: In 15 years you have not managed to increase the purchasing power in Austria! And the ÖVP, I can remember, has been in government for all 15 years. Now to our request: I would like to give you a few examples of what this is all about. A small company with five, six employees, which may have an excellent job situation for the next three, four, five months, cannot therefore proceed and can recruit additional employees. In order to motivate his staff and his employees to work longer in order to cope with this increased effort, it is essential to extend the five tax-free overtimes to ten tax-free overtimes. That has a very simple reason, but that will You are probably not interested on the part of the ÖVP Economic Federation, since you are lobbying for the large industry. But perhaps the SPÖ listens briefly; it was once the workers' party bad. It's about your clientele, which is still present. Perhaps you'll work to make sure that you'll be able to return to performance in the future. You can thus strengthen purchasing power, and I also tell you why purchasing power does not grow in Austria. There is a statistics that comes very freshly from the competent Federal Ministry and sets the Austrian tax system in comparison with others. In Austria, 2.2 million Austrians do not pay taxes; 2.5 million Austrians already pay 38.33 percent; 900 000 Austrians, i.e. almost 1 million, pay 43.6 percent; and entire 200 000 Austrians of the self-employed are in the maximum rate of 50 percent. This means that we are in the leading position in Europe in the area of taxation, which is still more than 40 percent – and there you can see why the purchasing power is not able to keep up. Now on the problem of why I would like to re-regulate this overtime taxation: I have told you that if a small company has to deal with additional work in the short term, it can only do it in the way that its employees handle this work about more work, over time. He cannot afford to recruit an additional employee for four or five months. They're going a basically wrong way. They say we have a shortage of skilled workers, and the Economic Federation and the Chamber of Commerce demand that additional professionals be taken from abroad, although in Austria we have reported a lot of unemployed people. For that, please, a few numbers... [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: But no experts!]] Professionals too; I'll tell you. Dr. stupid, in the summer this year were according to AMS – listen, maybe you're interested! – in the field of metalworking industry, and to a large extent this refers to the shortage of skilled workers, reporting 10 000 as unemployed to the AMS, of which 8 000 were unemployed with completed training. However, they demand that we get additional skilled workers from the new EU Member States in the East, but are not able to restructure the AMS programmes in such a way that the unemployed with completed training can also benefit from skilled workers. Among other things, you have also mentioned Romania and Bulgaria, because they are entirely new in the EU. Now I'm telling you something: At the beginning of this week it was a Romanian delegation here in the High House, and there is a communication from the foreign economy of Austria, the AWO, for all the Members who were there. The country of Romania is presented there. As Romania is presented as a promotion paradise, it is represented economic growth and, and, Among other things, the last point is ‘problems’: bureaucracy, infrastructure, strong local currency and, especially, no skilled workers! I wonder where you want to take the skilled workers. In the country of metalworking, we have 10 000 with completed training. They want to get the skilled workers from the former Eastern Bloc States, where there is no evidence to be found. So that's the wrong way. Show a heart for the worker, for the employees, for the middle class! [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We have a big heart!]] If you help to increase the purchasing power slightly, please agree to our request if it comes to the vote, and in the future use ten tax-free overtimes and not five! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30893	Next, Mr Magistrate. Arbitrators to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30914	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! On this request for a legislative amendment, as it has already been justified and argued here, a few remarks. There will be an intensive technical discussion in the Financial Committee anyway, but this is about a few parameters which, I believe, need to be assessed by the assessment of this approach, I think it must also be very critical in my view, so that it is not considered to be useful. The first question is: What is the impact on the economy and on employment? – Here, I think, you have to think of the overall economy. When the purchasing power level is addressed, I think that high employment is much better, especially in full-time equivalents, for raising the purchasing power level than if you do something part-time in the overtime. Secondly, from the point of view of fairness to workers, it is important to focus on part-time workers and, above all, to work towards a reduction in part-time work, because part-time workers are not at all affected by this measure and, above all, there are people who would rather work full-time and not at all get close to overtime to what goes beyond full-time work. That is why I believe that this is the most important point in terms of labour market policy, but also in terms of distribution policy. The third point is from the historical point of view. For example, the regulation on why the first five hours are tax-free is not only, but also based on, among other things, on the fact that it was also provided in the Working Time Act in such a way that this is the extent that the employer can arrange, and therefore for the worker no tax advantage is derived from it, because the decision on whether he is doing or not doing this overtime is given. The fourth and last point is: I do not think it makes sense to make one-dimensional, punctual solutions, but it is a relief of the incomes of workers as a whole through a collective reform and a tax reform – and not over this area. The tax reform will also come, as has already been announced. That is why I think it is better to deal with these questions there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30953	Mr Sieber has now come to speak. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e30975	Madam President. High house! Mr Themessl, this is a very interesting proposal, because: Yes, performance is supposed to pay! It is a proposal that we will certainly discuss in the Committee on Finance, where we will talk about what the whole thing costs, what the whole thing is, how we get a financing - and, above all, will discuss the impact that this has on the labour market. One thing, however, is equally clear in the first place: It's not gonna be with us. We will develop an overall solution, which we will then implement in a large solution, in a tax reform: for the benefit of workers. Right now, you've got to go ahead. We are looking forward to the discussion in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31002	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs Magnette for Honey to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31023	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A change to the Income Tax Act, “Performance must pay off again”, wants the FPÖ. . I think that this request is a good example of how populist, superficial policies are made: less taxes, more money for the hard-working. What can also be a policy of responsibility is to consider the larger contexts and the consequences of its action, and I would like to briefly present the consequences from our point of view. There is a limited cake in paid work, and this limited cake is currently unfairly distributed. That is, there are large pieces of full-time work with overtime; there are many, many part-time workers who actually want to have a larger share of this cake; and there are also very many people who are no longer involved in this cake at all. This is a situation that is definitely not optimal for us. We currently have an increasing trend in overtime in Austria. We had 340 million overtimes in Austria last year. If you divided this by a 40-hour job, it would be possible to create 170 000 new jobs. 170 000 new jobs! This is certainly an approach that is much closer to us Greens. So I'm sorry, but I just can't join your populist approach. We do not want to promote or favour overtime. We want to distribute work more justly, we want more jobs! In the As far as we are concerned, we will certainly not be able to support this request later on.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31063	Mr Schalle. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31084	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Themessl, from my point of view, Your request is in the right direction, but not far enough. I asked many colleagues in the economy about what is actually done on an overtime monthly basis. On average, we come almost everywhere on 20 hours and more. What's interesting about this: It's a lot of people who want to do it overtime. [[Abg. Sburny: Because they deserve too little!]] That's the point! [[Abg. Sburny: Maybe you pay them more!]] This has nothing to do with it, but it depends on the fact that people with little income are really coming to the handcushion through the price increases that exist from basic foods to gasoline, energy. And I think they can't wait until 2010, until the tax reform. I'm actually wondering that there's nothing from SPÖ. Talk to the people at the base! They don't know how to manage their monthly budget properly. They come without money at the end of the month and want to have an advance, so all these things. It's never been that bad! I can say: In the meantime, 764,000 people do overtime in Austria. [[Abg. Steibl: Because BILLA pays so bad!]] - No, it has nothing to do with the payment, Mrs Steibl! There is a collective agreement, but the people come with it – we do not pay less at once! – no more off. I think it has been made too much for the big ones and too little for the little ones, and that must be changed very soon. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Which is also an important effect: I think this will also reduce the number of undeclared work done. It promotes the willingness to perform enormously. I think that even the shortage of skilled workers, which is currently present, is driving people to overtime. It's no different. You don't get good people either. We also have the problem of having 9 000 apprentices who have no job. I ask you from the ÖVP to influence your clients that the industry and the medium-sized apprentices take up. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The trade, too!]] Trade, too, we do not need to discuss it at all. We have a responsibility to young people that we really look forward to getting a good training place. Especially the skilled workers in the... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] No, no, I think you really have to do something, otherwise we don't get any skilled workers. And I mean, too, there's too little happening. I would really appeal to you all that you act in this direction on your clients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31171	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 264/A to the Financial Committee. [[22:22:47]] 15. Point First reading: Proposal by Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues concerning a federal law, with which the Federal Law of 23 December 1989 was applied. January 1974, BGBl 60, on the actions threatened with judicial punishment (StGB), BGBl. No. 56/2006, amended (291/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31212	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. The first is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31236	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go into the real issue, I would like to mention the order in half: It is not a problem if one cannot even be present as a Member and is prevented, but one should apologize for the order and report accordingly. I noticed this today at Klubobmann Schüssel, who had not been present since 9 a.m. in the morning. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You have a longing for bowl! Interesting!]] I just want to say this for the sake of order, because I mean, it's a matter of fact that if a clubman doesn't have time – and that can happen – to report this at least and apologise, so that it is also correctly perceived. – This applies to all concerned, no question. Yes, Forcedehen. In her book “The Strange Bride”, a report from the interior of Turkish life in Germany, the German-Turkish sociologist Necla Kelek writes the following – I quote –: The typical import bride is just 18 years old, comes from a village and has learned to read and write in need. She is married by her parents to an unknown, perhaps related man of Turkish origin from Germany. After the wedding she comes to a German city, to a Turkish family. She lives exclusively in the family, has no contact with people outside the Turkish community. She doesn't know the city, nor the country she lives in. She does not speak German, does not know her rights, nor does she know who she could turn to. - Quote. This is what the German Turkish-born sociologist Necla Kelek writes. In an interview with the “Berliner Tagesspiegel” Kelek said: Many migrants do not want to break the tradition at all. A child who visits school here will be with Western... – We haven't heard that yet! [[Abg. Kainz: We've heard that today!]] You can see again that you haven't been careful, otherwise you would know that this has not yet been brought! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A child who attends the school here is confronted with Western values, exactly in the replacement phase from home, i.e. between 16 and 23, the young women are married forcibly. This replacement process is deliberately interrupted by the family, she writes. And Necla Kelek goes on to mean.: There was no integration for 40 years, but only the word “multiculturality. ” It was spoken of by many cultures that stand close to each other. However, many do not seem to be interested in the fact that human rights violations such as forced marriages are committed on a daily basis in certain cultures. Western democrats must not, however, deviate from the evasion of fundamental rights, she says, and migrants who have lived here for generations must finally choose Western society. – All this, says a lady who is affected. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] I know that Mrs Necla Kelek is probably now a “right-wing extremist” for you; you can drive everything into the absurdity. I would have liked this to be done by you, but all of this says a affected person who is very much in their environment, also through the care of people who have to deal precisely with these areas, who are forced to do so, yes, with violence, if they refuse to do so, deeply affected human beings. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: This is hypocrisy!]] These are very clear words that should be very serious to us. I understand that this may not please everyone, if you do, but you have to discuss it openly, soberly and objectively. And we do. A marriage that has to be concluded against free will, so if a person is forced to enter a marriage, it is a serious violation of fundamental and freedom rights, and then one has to take a stand against it. This is a serious violation of human rights. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Such behaviour cannot be compatible with the fundamental values of a rule of law. That's just important. There are cases for forced-seekers, and those who defend themselves are not only threatened with physical violence, no, there are in addition examples not only in Austria, in Europe as a whole, where violence was applied when girls refused to do so. I don't want to bring any more quotations here, but just say: Family lawyers also report to us that girls report to social workers and ultimately also their fear of reporting on their experiences, and that they should be forced to go towards forced marriage. They then contact youth authorities, and then they are informed: Why? It's so common with you! And that's what's happening. We have a Wiener Verein, the “Orientexpress”, which reports that last year 51 women and girls were looking for help for forced marriages. In 2005, there were 46 cases. In addition, there have been 200 telephone consultations because the girls because the women concerned did not even dare to become personally introduced. This is a problem that can't simply be pushed aside, where in part even the murder is threatened, where girls who say no and against this traditional – and I'm now saying that quite consciously in the cynical sense, because that's considered to be a traditional model of forced marriage, are seriously threatened with violence and murder, and there's a dark spot that's much higher. That is why we need to take measures in order to establish very decisive criminal acts here too. Violence against women, forced to do so, cannot and must not simply be so present in our society without a clear rule being made by law and thus punishing something accordingly. This goes down to the genital mutilation, which is also carried out, and unfortunately that is not two or three cases in our society. [[Calls to the Greens.]] That this may be indifferent to you, you have to answer. You have to give this to the affected women along the way. That's already shown. Your lack of sensitivity in this area shows your lack of sensitivity in this area, because it is not two or three cases, no: There are hundreds of cases per year in Austria in these areas. And then you go down there, I say now, and make fun of it and play it down. That's really not the fine English way. It's rather scandalous what you're doing here for the best. Nothing like this has been lost in us. That you want to know this briefly shows that you are not seriously dealing with this issue, which shows that it is not your concern. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, I do not think that you will necessarily receive approval from the Austrian population, if You just want to take it that way and let it go through in our society in Austria. One must not let such a thing go on, that is simply and simply a crime, which is why one must also lay down and punish accordingly. Finally, I would just like to say one thing, since Mrs Weinzinger has also spoken here today about women's rights. Good and important! It would be nice if you would also stand here for the rights of women. I miss this! I also miss it with more than 1,000 black African prostitutes in Vienna, namely asylum seekers, behind whom tow bands are forced to operate prostitution in Vienna to deliver the money for being brought here. - Where are you? Where did you report to the point up to now? [[Abg. Sburny: What about a residence permit?]] They are silent when it comes to their women's rights! And this shows that you can't be taken seriously on this question because you measure by two measures – and that's what the citizens in Austria can very well judge.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31352	Mr Klubobmann, on the one hand: I would hate to hear the word “deaden ” in this house a second time. Secondly, To your remark, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel is not here. You know Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure that notifications are only possible at the beginning of the sitting. I have known for some time that Mr. Klubobmann has already apologised for the assignment meeting. [[Abg. - Nobel!]] Next, Mr Jarolim. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31383	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, I think one cannot seriously assume that anyone in this House is taking the floor for the fact that forced ewes should not be prosecuted in any way. [[Abg. You have to do something!]] If you are serious about what is being done in Vienna in this context, for example, how vehemence you take on these women who are doing this, and there you can't seriously talk about how you have done it here today. And I don't understand the approach either, because the very consideration you have given here, but not with something – as in your statements repeatedly – xenophobic tone, was actually the reason why in 2006 – Mr. Strache, listen to me and look into the law! – that was put under punishment. [[Abg. Strache: If you are working for female immigrants, is this xenophobic?]] The law lays down that if a person is forced to marry, he must be punished with imprisonment from six months to five years. This is in the law; in 2006 – that was a year ago – this was decided. We have such a scheme. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The regulation is not enough!]] I think that's certainly a way to deal with it. That is why I do not understand your approach. I do not understand it, either, because it is a matter of protecting women – and not, as you have suggested, in criminal acts against the values of marriage and family. What I can imagine is – I hope you take note now, there is this crime, however, in a dogmatically correct form – that you break your mind about whether it is not useful if such a procedure is carried out, whether, in some cases, you will then proceed directly as a result of the divorce. There is no such thing, and one can certainly discuss it, and one should also discuss it because, of course, the question arises from the forced situation, but one can only file a divorce one year after the forced situation has ended, and there is a dispute there. And that's where I mean there's a need for improvement. Summary: Mr Strache, there is what you have proposed here in relation to legislation. That is why, I do not know, one cannot say “diletantic” – not to take it seriously, and I think we should have a serious discussion about improving the protection of these women. We are certainly involved, it is the first reading, but always on a serious basis, and on the basis of what already exists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31450	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31471	Madam President. High house! Three comments on this request: First of all, forced persons and their criminal proceedings in Austria. I think this has just made it quite clear to Mr Jarolim that we have already made an intensification. It is striking that you focus very much on a single crime, namely the forced marriage, and a whole series of other acts of violence against women – whether foreigners or foreigners – you do not find in you the attention that would be absolutely due to the subject, such as residence rights for the victims of trafficking in human beings, tow, forced tow and so on. There you are from the FPÖ very quiet, very small, very quiet. Second: To what you read. The passage you have read is the most striking example of being on the completely wrong steamer with the application. A woman who is forced to marry in Turkey and is then “imported” as a bride to Austria, Germany or elsewhere has no assistance at all with legal penalties for marriages that are not usually even closed in Austria. What this young woman needs is advice, docks, an independent right of residence, which is not dependent on the husband, a whole series of advisory services, where you have been actively helping the FPÖ in recent years to delete and return the advice services at the independent advisory bodies. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Third comment: The unbearable in this debate is always the hypocrisy with which it is led by your side. One recognizes the intention and is clearly voting. What is in your mind in protecting women from violence: It is obvious that women must be protected, protected from foreign, Islamic, Turkish men, but not women in general, from violence – no matter whom they are applied. I'll tell you: Every woman really doesn't care if the violence was exercised by an Austrian or non-Austrian. Hits hurt at once – no matter what pass the man who did the beatings. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: You are therefore for violence against foreign women! Incredible!]] That is why I ask you to: If you are talking about protection for women who are victims of violence who are threatened with persecution, then finally take note that it is being made comprehensive – and not just for those groups that fit you into your xenophobic slogans.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31520	Mrs Rosenkranz's next speech. [[Call for the call.]] – Is it deleted? It's not on my list, but I've already registered it. The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31550	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In contrast to the previous speakers of SPÖ and Greens, I can very well tell colleagues from FPÖ that we will go along with this path, this forced marriage, this issue of a forced marriage, a separate detailed section, because this has deserved it very well or justified such a crime. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: It already exists!]] – There is a small note in a paragraph, but no detailed regulation. Mr Jarolim. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] There are, however, quite a few points that we still need to discuss. I would now also like to address Mr Jarolim, on the other hand: In our opinion, the positioning is not exactly chosen, because the protected legal property, in the area where you want to settle the paragraphs, is the protection of marriage, prevention of multiples. Klubobmann Strache himself said this in his first speech: It is about preventing the breaking of free will practically. This makes it clear that it is necessary to settle – but I think that is the slightest problem that one agrees on the area in which one then positions it. On the content, I would like to say that the text of the regulation was not really comprehensive. You have presented us with a paragraph which does not yet include certain points. But we will also be able to discuss this in detail, and I think that we will really come up with a suitable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31591	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 291/A to the Committee on Justice. The agenda is exhausted.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-09-27-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00031_d7e31632	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 309/A to 392/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1457/J to 1535/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 22.41 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
