ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e3999	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. The official protocols of 33 and 34. Meeting of 10. On October 1, 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies are reported as preventative, Murauer, Rauch-Kallat, Haidlmayr, Mag. [[See also page 23]] Lunacek and Mag. Darmann. [[10:02:28]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4036	We arrive at the current hour with the theme: “Security and reliability – The financial compensation between the federal, state and local authorities as a future pact for the Austrians’ First of all, Mr Jakob Auer has spoken. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4066	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! “Security and reliability – The financial balance between the federal, state and local authorities as a future pact for the Austrians’ is the title of this current hour. I add: This government thanks the chief negotiator in this area. Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer, this professional, was possible in a short time, in positive agreement. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. May. Johann Maier.]] In connection with this positive agreement with the countries and the Municipal and Municipal Governments, respect and recognition should be given. Neither the most critical journalists nor the greatest doubters – including in this House – could believe that this will be possible in as short a time as possible and with what precision and what negotiating skills such a result has been possible. It is interesting and remarkable that the interest and knowledge of financial compensation are relatively limited, although the immediate range of life of all of us, ladies and gentlemen, is most affected by all citizens, because it concerns the substantial distribution of the tax revenue to the federal government, the countries and the municipalities that are regulated here, by a volume of over €60 billion, and thus the living conditions of all are directly affected. On the one hand, the allocation of tasks between the federal, state and local authorities is clearly regulated, so who is responsible for what. In order for these tasks to be fulfilled, even in the smallest municipalities, the corresponding allocation and safeguarding of financial resources is necessary. For even the budget of a small community is not a banknote that can be filled in the sky and at which the money comes out, so to speak. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing has been clarified: A clear allocation of resources sets the best economic conditions. Each of us lives in a community, whether it is a large city or a small village, it is the home, the home – your home, my home – where the living conditions, the habits and also the age structures are to be taken into account, and these change; new challenges in childcare, new challenges in the care and care of older people thanks to demographic development, this shows clearly. Thanks to an excellent health policy in Austria, we are getting older and older, but this also ensures the handling of new tasks and new challenges. Rehabilitation and expansion of major infrastructure measures can be financed by this. For the first time, this financial compensation has also clearly taken into account the tasks and needs of climate protection. Family support has been taken into account accordingly. These are not only tasks of the federal and state states, but they also require answers from the municipalities, solutions. In order to meet these new challenges, planning security is also necessary. For the first time, the new financial compensation has a duration of six years and provides a security guarantee for six years. I would like to thank the Federal Minister, Mr Wilhelm Molterer, for this clarification, for making an agreement for six years in order to ensure that these new tasks can also be handled for this financial period. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] This encouraging result – the first of all the municipal representatives – will provide an additional €320 million for the countries and municipalities and an additional €530 million in the second stage. [[Abg. Parnigoni: If you do everything alone, we can...!]] But above all, it comes, and that is very important to me – I thank you for knowing what attitude some negotiators have on this point – to a fairer distribution also at the lower level of the smaller, the weaker communities – a plus of € 100 million. It's interesting, ladies and gentlemen: It does not matter where you are at home, whether I am registered in Vienna, Linz or Innsbruck, in the small municipality of colleague Steier, in which a little bigger of colleague Gaßner or in the small municipality of colleague Prince, this does not matter when it comes to tax figures. There is the same tax rate if the income is the same. However, if you are in the larger city at home, you are suddenly worth the double. That can't be! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and the Deputies of Steier and Dr Pirklhuber.]] This for the first time, in the continuation of the 2005 financial compensation, markedly reintroduced a more results-oriented and fairer step, especially for smaller units, since they were clearly disadvantaged, ladies and gentlemen. It is also important to adapt more quickly in the years and not only after ten years due to a census, not taking into account rapid development, on growth communities. Thus, a more rapid settlement and a reference to the realistic development of the population. So far, cities, municipalities and districts that grow strongly have been at a disadvantage for this reason. It is therefore a real positive financial compensation. I would therefore like to thank the Federal Minister, Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer, with Mr. State Secretary Dr. Matznetter, with the negotiators of the municipal and municipal government, with all the country representatives, but above all with the municipal government. It is a crucial factor for future tasks; it is also the confirmation that the federal government takes seriously the tasks of the municipalities, strongly supports them and considers them to be partners. Ladies and gentlemen, the mayors of the smaller communities, the municipal mandates do a great deal of work on the ground, very often unthankful, unpaid, must be constantly exposed to criticism – it is immediately possible to check on the spot what opportunities there are in the community, how a community can develop what infrastructure measures can be created – and really do huge things for democracy. At this point, you should also be grateful to me. [[Congratulation with ÖVP and SPÖ as well as the Abg. Grainy.]] Even more so, where they are really not, or only extremely small, and insufficiently compensated. For a functioning community and for democracy, however, a functioning municipal council is also necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, one more important note: If we hear today that at the second stage of the newly negotiated financial compensation, there is more than €500 million, and at the same time we know the need for budget adjustment, when at the same time we know that infrastructure is more spent, if at the same time we know that more resources are needed for research and education, if at the same time we know that in the social field some improvement is desirable and quite necessary, if we know that the largest tax reform of the Second Republic was to be digested and is already working on a future one to send signals here again, and all of this is to be financed, then surely there are as many questions as it is possible. Ladies and gentlemen, this is possible thanks to an excellent economy, thanks to the tax performance of the Austrians, thanks to great businesses with excellent employees. We can distribute this money because in recent years a corresponding economic policy has been made. The result of excellent economic conditions is not something of a few months, but the foundations have been created in recent years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A policy of security and reliability, a policy that can be trusted, is set out here. Ladies and gentlemen, this Minister of Finance, this Deputy Chancellor, is the guarantee for security, for sustainability, for a positive relationship between cities and communities, but above all for a positive future of our local citizens, and for this he is grateful to.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4148	On a preliminary opinion, Mr Finanzminister Vice-chanzler Mag. Molterer to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4171	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Government has set itself as a goal crucial projects, which are important for people in this country. We want, for example, to allow older people in this country to age in dignity and to ensure that a reasonable, to a human extent also financial provision for the 24-hour care is given where it is necessary. This federal government has set itself an important goal, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, with minimum security, we should start a new initiative in the end to ensure fair and socially just distribution and help also for those people who need it urgently. This Federal Government has set itself the goal of ensuring, in future, the best health system in the world, ladies and gentlemen. This Federal Government has set itself the goal of ultimately focusing on climate change as a very important topic of the future, a crucial issue for the future, including the following generations. This Federal Government has undertaken, ladies and gentlemen, to ensure fairness, for example, for rural areas and small communities in Austria. This federal government, ladies and gentlemen, has, of course, taken up the desire of the countries to prefer the negotiations on financial compensation. Why? – Because the financial compensation removes the distribution of tax resources, the hard-working tax euros of people in the country stable, solid and fair for the next six years. The financial compensation makes this possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] The financial compensation makes it possible for you today, ladies and gentlemen, to present here in the House the future prospects, which are so important for the people of this country. It is also important to me to note that this financial compensation – which Jacob Auerhat mentioned – is not only the financial basis for political action at all levels, in the communities, cities, federal states and the federal government, but also the people need to know that the financial compensation also enables the fulfilment of their concerns, their wishes. The financial compensation is often a very technical issue, yes, because very few know the technical details, which are not important to me either, but the political objective behind them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call to the Greens: They should be important to you, Mr. Vice-Chancellor!]] First: We can say today that with this agreement for the next six years there is fairness for the small communities. That was a big concern to me, ladies and gentlemen, because even small communities have big projects! That's important! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It is clear, however, in the sense of justice, that we are not only changing the graded population key among small communities up to 10,000 people, so that we can make concrete policies for people there too, but we are also helping the larger communities that have financial problems. It is important that financially weak cities also benefit accordingly from this financial compensation! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] We allow this to happen in two stages by the federal government not to pay for the consolidation contribution that countries and communities have paid so far. I also tell you why we can do this on the part of the federal government – that has already been said: We can do this because, in recent years, we have made a sound budgetary policy that enables the federal government to give up this consolidation contribution in two steps, thus giving cities, countries and communities more scope for fulfilling the tasks that are important in the interests of the people of that country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second major success of the financial compensation: We can now ensure the financing of the important objectives, the 24-hour care and maintenance, minimum security and the financing of minimum security by the countries, cities and municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen! The financial compensation can also ensure that important educational initiatives are implemented, such as the issue of early childhood education, language training in kindergartens and childcare in the sense of reconciliation between work and family. Ladies and gentlemen, we can also ensure that the special requirements in the education system, such as support teachers for special educational needs or, for example, small structures in the rural regions in schools, are excluded from this financial compensation. It is possible that these social and education policies are implemented. The Federation also makes this possible by relinquishing the consolidation contribution in the interests of the people of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, it was important for us to reject, as I have already mentioned, the best way to provide health care for people in this country. How does that work? – On the one hand, Andrea Kdolsky has succeeded in disputing with the countries the Article 15a agreement on security and on the structures in the health system for the next six years. There are also some structural reform needs inside. In the future, the involvement of doctors and their representatives will continue to be ensured. I also say from this point of view: I do not understand that, in view of these decisions, the doctors are still talking about strike! This is not the right perspective for the patients in this country, ladies and gentlemen! [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] In view of these decisions, I therefore call for the path of reason, the way of dialogue, and not the way of confrontation, ladies and gentlemen, in view of these changes. The patients deserve the best possible care and not strike that is not necessary! [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This will be made possible by the fact that we ultimately provide 100 million per year for the financing of hospitals on the part of the federal government, but at the same time I stress that we have agreed to continue working on these necessary reforms in the health system in the future, because it is not money alone, but it is also the issue of the efficiency of the health system, the fair division of work between the established doctors, the specialists, the social security institutions and the hospitals. We need this together, ladies and gentlemen, and I ask for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this financial compensation, we have achieved that we can really set massive additional impulses in climate protection. On the one hand, we have disputed from the federal government that the housing funds are at the hands of the federal states, but at the same time we have specifically demanded from the federal states that in the future these funds should be used as a priority and target for climate protection. That will happen, but it is not enough for me to make this political point of the financial balance. Therefore, we have agreed that by 2009 at the latest, in an Article 15a agreement between all local authorities, we will not only establish the joint commitment to climate protection, but that all territorial authorities will also undertake to reduce their responsibilities, and that consequences, if this is not achieved, will also be shared. Not the Federation alone, ladies and gentlemen, is responsible for climate protection, but the Federal Government, countries and communities in undivided responsibility and in the responsibility of undivided hands. We are ultimately guilty of this, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] With this financial compensation, we have undertaken a wealth of structural developments, which are important for Austria and for the stability of the country. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] The Stability Pact commits federal, national and local authorities to discipline in budgetary policy and in budgetary policy. It is certain that the tax euro will be used meaningfully and responsibly. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Has been soaked up!]] He is not averse, Mr Rossmann, but he is even tougher, this Stability Pact, because balanced budget must be the goal for the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have ensured that not every ten years a change is made in accounting due to changes in population numbers, but is adjusted annually, and that is fairer. We have ensured that the transfer jungle will finally be ventilated and can be operated more correctly and transparently. We have started a very interesting project to stimulate voluntary community cooperation, to implement the administrative reform, including the obligation to implement the pension reform also by the federal states. And we, ladies and gentlemen, with this pact for the next six years, can offer stability, security and a positive future perspective with this future pact. I thank all the negotiators, Christoph Matznetter, the countries and the communities. That's how you do it when it comes to Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4300	I declare that, contrary to the excuses I read, Mrs Rauch-Kallat is present (see p. 18). – I ask you to keep this in the Minutes. I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Krainer has now come to speak. As I said, five minutes of speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4330	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Why has the financial compensation been negotiated earlier? This has two sides: because, on the one hand, the countries and the municipalities have demanded that it be preferred because they have no longer done so with their tasks, with the means of taxation available to them. At the latest, this has been noted that the countries have no longer been able to make their contribution to a balanced budget – perhaps with the exception of Vienna, which has always complied with and even exceeded its obligations. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The second area is that there was also a desire at the federal level to prefer this because this Federal Government has taken action, in some very important policy areas that have been neglected in recent years, to bring about a change of course and to take important forward-looking steps. The Minister for Finance has already referred to the areas in which these are concerned. This federal government has recognized that there is a problem in the care system in Austria. This federal government has recognized the need to do more against poverty in this country. This Federal Government has recognized that health care cannot be financed by any kind of self-sustainment and burden on the sick, but that it is also necessary from the taxpayer's side to do something here. This federal government has recognized that we are not world-class in climate protection, but quite, far behind and here also need a change of course, and this new federal government has recognized that we not only want to talk about world class in the field of education, but also have to do something to improve our education, and that we have weaknesses here – not least also PISA – and this federal government has recognized that it must end with extending rural areas, thinning them and, in fact, blocking the small communities. [[Abg. Grill: Expand!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This can also be seen here at the financial compensation. This financial compensation is borne first by solidarity between countries and municipalities, between large and small countries and municipalities and the Federal Government. However, there is also a great common ground that all these levels say that these problems, which exist in Austria, have to be solved and that each level has to make its contribution. That is also what is happening here in this financial compensation. There is a solution that Social Minister Buchinger has negotiated in the area of 24-hour care. The financial compensation is now also a guarantee of financing, because everyone at all levels must cooperate. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] The second area is the fight against poverty. There is indeed the need-oriented minimum guarantee where the federal government has begun to significantly increase the minimum pensions here as the first step, including, of course, social assistance, unemployment benefit and emergency aid. And this is the next step to take with the countries and with the communities. The third essential area is the health sector, that there is also more money for hospitals, that countries and communities can also support the financing of hospitals, and that we have continued to achieve and achieve first-class care for our health care population. In the field of climate protection, the Federal Government has taken a step here through the creation of the Climate Fund that Austria is coming up with the final light in climate policy. [[Abg. Sburny: That's what we're looking at!]] A second essential step is now this financial compensation, where the countries and municipalities also commit themselves to make more of space heating in the area of renovation, in particular. The next area is education. There are also very decisive steps here. First of all, there is more money for integration. We know that an essential key to integration is education, so that must be done through education. There's more money here. And there is also more money for the very small schools. It should be so that in rural areas, we do not lock post offices, gene army buildings or public schools, but rather ensure that rural areas have a reasonable infrastructure and that small children do not have to go to the next folk school for miles, but that they can do so in their communities. In this respect, this financial compensation is a sign that this coalition is working and that the priorities of this government, which are in the field of education, social, health and climate protection, are also set correctly and we are all taking a lead, not only in the government, but also in cooperation with the countries and communities. And that's good. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4411	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4432	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If, after a three-quarters year, an interim balance sheet of the work of this government is drawn, it is clear that the Ministry of Finance is absolutely one: Firstly, a double budget in record time with the three strategic objectives of stability in the government budget, investment in the future and budgetary discipline in order to enable future discharges of citizens and businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second example: Financial compensation, ladies and gentlemen. A financial compensation for six years, far into the next legislative period, where I already know, financial compensation is incredibly financial and brittle. In reality, however, it is politics in the best sense of the word, namely, the design of the future for the citizens of our country. Third example: Yesterday we had a hearing with experts on the new federal budget law. The biggest reform of budget law in the history of the Second Republic. Consent of experts: a large throw. Fourth example: We will soon decide here in the House on the reform of financial market supervision, necessary as a result of the BAWAG scandal, Hypo Alpe-Adria, MEL and so on. So four examples of where we can say that we have a great finance minister and also a State Secretary who helps to achieve these successes accordingly. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'll tell you a nice anecdote. Last week we had municipal party of the ÖVP in Zwettl. Then a young lady came to me and said, It is actually interesting in Austria. We have a German chancellor, Alfred Gusenbauer, and we have a job chancellor, Willi Molterer. [[Complementary and intermediate calls to the ÖVP.]] I said you were a very smart woman. Of course I had to admit that the job chancellor does not have to show such beautiful photos with the Dalai Lama, Schwarzenegger and Netrebko, but we like to buy this because of this excellent current balance of our work chancellor Willi Molterer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusions of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: Painful!]] Ladies and gentlemen, if we have spoken about the fact that financial compensation sounds incredibly brittle and financial, I have to say that the Minister of Finance has already pointed out that this is basically a future design for the people of our country. Four examples: For the old people care and care. In addition, € 40 million for this challenge care and care for old people. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second example: Childcare. Also here € 40 billion in addition for thousands of childcare places and additional language support for children. Bravo, Minister of Finance. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Third example: Only last week another international ranking came out. Austria is taking the number one issue worldwide in the health sector, not only because of data and facts, but also because of polls on the satisfaction of the population. Absolutely top number one. A total of €100 million per year for hospital care, this top place of Austria in the health care sector will be confirmed worldwide accordingly. Also a bravo both gentlemen on the government bank. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the fourth example – it has also been mentioned by my previous speaker Krainer – is: We all know that climate protection is one of the major environmental challenges of our time, and it has succeeded here in promoting housing, a very controversial area – by experts he is very disputed – to easily achieve that we have an instrument here to successfully promote climate protection. In line with contracts with the countries, housing development is converted to energy savings, thermal insulation and so on. So a real contribution, a concrete contribution to climate protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a Waldviertler mandater, I am of course pleased because I know the concerns and problems of the small communities in the rural regions that an additional €100 million are being used annually to flatten this graded population key. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Thank you, Minister of Finance, Secretary of State, on behalf of many mayors in my constituency, Waldviertel. The fact that, with this financial compensation, decisive steps are also being taken towards administrative reform, which aims to save more than € 1 billion by 2010, creates the conditions for us to make in 2010 the big tax reform, Mr Rossmann, which the Greens could never make, because the Greens are always very strong in spending, but very weak in savings. In this sense, a happiness for the next years, six years of planning security, six years of security for the people of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4530	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4551	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! High house! The tax cake to be distributed was obviously large enough this time to be able to agree quickly on a new financial compensation. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Thanks to the diligent Austrians!]] 11 billion € will be more distributed by 2011 alone. But this money – as Mr Auer is right – does not come from the banknote. It is also not the companies that contribute so much to this either. Nor are the wealthes, no, there are three quarters the taxpayers, namely those who pay mass taxes. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: The Greens!]] It comes from wage tax and VAT, and the net real wages which have been stagnating for a number of years, with the exception of 2005 and the gap between lower and upper incomes, and the gap between wage and profit income. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I find this – especially the ladies and gentlemen of SPÖ – horrendous! Once again, this financial compensation is almost exclusively about the allocation of resources and not about the major reform projects that have been required for years. Longest pipe it the spats of the roofs: Our financial compensation is marked by a transfer chaos. There are 210 000 transfer payments at municipal level alone. This is the consequence of a federal system in which the responsibility for carrying out a task and its financing, Mr Finanzminister, falls apart. In other words: One level creates the other. That can't go well. And there are dozens of examples in the financial compensation. And so the federal relations of Austria and the financial balance have become a paradise of economics. So millions remain up to a billion, I would say, amounts of euros are on the road that we so urgently need for childcare facilities, for schools, for climate protection and for much more. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is precisely these reform needs that will once again be pushed to the long-term stage. When will you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, realize that this form of federalism has survived and is no longer viable? A resurgence of federalism requires not only a reorganisation of competences, but also a greater responsibility for those means of taxation that are spent by the local authorities. If we bear in mind that the heads of state bear responsibility for only about 3 percent of their total revenue, then it naturally brings it into a very comfortable position, namely, in the position of princes who spend money, for which others bear the responsibility. Such a system is necessarily uneconomic. But the question of increased fiscal sovereignty for the countries has already been put ad act at the start of the financial compensatory negotiations. The countries don't want that, it's just called it. Those who are not willing to take on a greater responsibility of their own are increasingly questioning themselves. Those who, despite a two-thirds majority of them, are not willing to shake this inefficient system cannot boast of forging a future pact. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] On the contrary: This new financial compensation emphasizes the economics of another six years. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Standard & Poor’s has also spoken of an ostentatious opportunity, Mr. Cot. Have you not read “The Press” from yesterday? Now for the municipal financial compensation. The financial balance between the communities continues to follow the populist battle call, every citizen is equally worth it, and is based on the traditional idea of the one-community. They haven't been there in a long time. It is often scientifically proven that larger communities simply need more funding because they carry out tasks that others who live outside the community use. And the community of unity is a fiction that has long since ceased to exist. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Prince.]] And whoever sticks to it shows that he has not even arrived in the present. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The solution for the future, Mr Commissioner, I am now telling you, would be to distribute the money according to the actual tasks. Only those who promote centres, including small centres in space, I tell you that they do something good to people, because centres, even small centres in space, are the economic, social and cultural engines of our country, also for the surrounding area. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that gives people security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4667	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Strache. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4688	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today we were able to experience a wonderful fine speech exercise of the coalition parties, which said that the largest tax reform of the Second Republic was launched and one has to cope with it. So with the citizens, this biggest tax reform, the supposedly largest tax reform of the Second Republic, has not yet arrived, which is not felt by the citizens outside. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, it is felt that there have been price increases everywhere, that wage levels have remained the same and have taken place everywhere, from basic food prices that have increased exorbitantly, to gas, electricity, petrol, rental, operating costs and so on. People feel that, and they feel that purchasing power is worse than 15 years ago – as experts say. This leads to this misdevelopment – for which you are responsible above all – that we unfortunately need to experience God today, how the difference between the poor and the rich grows smaller instead of smaller. If we are dealing with a lazy financial compensation here today, I say: This is a financial difference according to the trick of the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance, who here as “pater Willi” prays down like a mill, that everything has become better and all problems have been solved. So I'll tell you: If you look at that, you see, it is unfortunately God's way that the rural area is further diluted. We experience that we have a miser in the field of care today and you continue to manage this miser permanently. The care topic is a sad one. First, one has dileted, and now the new government has done nothing but continue this dilettantism and half-solutions. With the financial compensation, countries now have the possibility to set a cap on assets other than the EUR 5 000 previously envisaged. In the future, it will be country-related whether wealth and income will be taken into account in the promotion of care. You've got to hold on to this. In Austria, there is a uniform animal welfare law, but the needy Austrians are obviously not worth ensuring a uniform solution for them in Austria; a caregiver in the countries should not be equally valuable. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] It is absolute nonsense, which is determined, an unequal treatment that is irrational! Apart from that, we liberals always reject the exploitation of the property, because what should one work for a lifetime and create if, at the end of his evening of life, one loses everything, one takes off the last shirt and needs to become social cases according to your system? That's where Werner Vogt, the care ombudsman in the care phone of the Social Ministry, says something very interesting in a guest comment in the “Kurier”, he brings it to the point. I quote Werner Vogt: “Bund and countries have agreed, as it is said, also in care. What? That the federal government gives more money and the countries continue to be able to pull the little pension, care money and savings out of the bag until there is almost nothing left. To be old means to continue to be exterminated until death. Shirt, means to get off the hard-working saver to the social aid recipient.” – Quote. You can't say it more clearly than Vogt. This statement brings it to the point. You should be ashamed of this and not give good speech exercises here for the best you've done here today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You didn't put anything on your legs. With regard to the federal budgetary situation, it should be noted that the countries do not comply with the internal Austrian Stability Pact. There are huge structural problems in the national budgets through social improvements in hospitals. But are there solutions here? - No! There are no solutions; instead, the path to two-class medicine is sometimes taken further. Mrs. Kdolsky's not going to be angry enough. She wants to move forward, she prefers to abolish the cashiers today to finally convert hospitals into luxury health stamps, which no one can afford anymore. I understand the doctors if they want to prevent our good health system from being broken on the back of patients. I understand that doctors in Austria are on the other hand storming. Finally – because we have little time – to the education sector: Let's look at the numbers at compulsory schools. In the education sector, the problems are becoming ever more serious. In the school year 2000/2001 – I am already finishing. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Overall radical loss of teaching in the countries, a significant reduction in the number of teachers in the federal states. There's no wonder that the education system needs to collapse. You manage, but you don't change anything to improve.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4795	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4816	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! The ÖVP celebrates a high level of financial compensation. Father Willi has given a new sermon here. Unfortunately, he didn't bring all his little sheep together. There are also significant officials in the highest circles of the ÖVP who see this quite differently, for example the head of the Economic Chamber and the Economic Federation. Financial compensation is a disappointment, says Leitel. Have you forgotten that Mr Leitel tells you that this is a disappointment? I quote literally from the “Salzburger Nachrichten” “This Republic is in a paralysis,” says Leitel, “and the deceitful deception is that no reform measures need to be taken because the economy is going well at the moment.” [[the speaker shall keep a photocopy of an article from the said newspaper up to date]] It shoots your financial balance by the sun and the moon, your own economic zampano and economic forest! No other witness is actually more credible than he is in this field. It is indeed a disappointment, Minister of Finance: They push the tax revenues of the Austrians around between the country, federal government and municipalities, but they do not relieve people, and that is the real problem. People are moaning under high taxes and enormous price charges. Let's look at it! Food: 20 percent increase in milk products, 30 percent increase in fruit and vegetables, plus 7 percent in bread and pastries, plus 7 percent in beverages, plus 10 percent in electricity and gas – let alone the whole fee and rent. Everything's getting more expensive, and the Minister of Finance is standing down and saying: Great, we have so many tax revenues, we have a great financial compensation, but we don't give people anything back. He does not think of making a tax reform now, but it would be necessary to stimulate purchasing power now because it is still at the 1991 level. Mr Finanzminister, this is an irresponsible tax policy that we reject which we do not approve of. For private households, the neck is increasingly tied up, people need to save more and more, they have less and less money at their disposal, while the public budget is over-quilling before tax revenue. 3 billion € tax additional revenue in the first half of the year, which you have not budgeted at all! Why Give You don't get that back to people? Why do it? You don't? 13 billion € you will have tax additional revenue by the year 2010, and then you will go here in 2010, just before the election, and say: If we spread sand to people again, we make a tax reform!, which the Austrians have financed themselves four times up until then. These are the pocket-player tricks of this government. By the year 2010, people have paid so much taxes that they can already afford the tax reform you are doing four times. This is really an unscrupulous policy that we do not support either. We now want a tax reform and have therefore said: Down with the high wage tax burden, now and not in 2010! As a result, we have around €2 billion per year by changing the corresponding tax limits, then we have an average of €500 per capita. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Do you know what these 500 € are? – This is exactly the 500 € that German Chancellor Gusenbauer promised at the beginning of the legislative period and has not yet implemented, because he has a Finance Minister who hears the money well, but gives nothing back to the people. That's not responsible. Then you go here and you also burden those people who perform, but you relieve the lazy by this terrible compromise of minimum assurance, which everyone gets something; €726, wonderful – even those who don't work, the performance doesn't matter. There is only a very little difference to the minimum wage of around €815 net. [[Abg. That's not responsible!]] But that you can abolish overtime taxation so that people who do more can also get more money, or that you can relieve the commuters, don't think about it! Because we're talking about the health system: Yes, we understand that the doctors are defending themselves against an intervention, against a nationalization, against a dictatorship, so to speak, from the ministry. We understand that doctors then want to intervene in the cash contracts, but much more important for people that we have too expensive medicines – 20 percent VAT, third highest price for medicines in the European Union! Semi-trailer You finally get this VAT to 10 percent so that people can afford the medication again! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] These are the points we demand of you. There is also a hard winter in Austria, and we have high heating costs. Energy costs are increasing everywhere in Europe, including in Austria. Why are you unable to disburse at least €150 million – with 3 billion in additional revenue – in order to relieve the population of heating costs? We will therefore make a request today, in which we demand a heating allowance of €150 per household – in addition to the national heating subsidies – because we believe that the Austrians have not deserved that they can no longer afford heating. Mr Finanzminister! Finally do something for the social warmth in the country and stop preaching here from the high Ross, because the Austrians do not understand that!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4879	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e4900	Madam President. Mr Finanzminister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If you have listened to the two previous speakers now, you can say that now they suddenly know – the blues and oranges – how it actually went. – For seven years they didn’t know. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We have made tax reforms!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of thanks here today. Mr Stumpfully thanked the Minister for Finance enthusiastically and spoke of the millions and billions who are being redistributed here. I would like to begin by thanking the taxpayers in Austria for allowing us to distribute something today on the financial compensation. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Communities have not been particularly good in the financial field in recent years. In this compensation, they have again seen a chance to redesign their surroundings. At this point I would like to join my colleague Mr Auer and say: We have thousands of councillors in the communities outside, who do great work almost free of charge or for very weak compensation in our communities. At this point too, I would like to thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Finanzminister, at the beginning of the meeting, you asked me if I would have believed that this would be so fast. – No, I did not believe it, because so far the usual form was the: to negotiate for months and extortion a result in the last night. This has not happened now. That's great success. They were negotiations and not just ‘Molder Festivals’. Negotiations were conducted by Molterer and Matznetter, by the municipal government and the local authorities, by the country representatives of the various couleurs, and it has succeeded in bringing about a financial compensation, which in fact gives rise to hope again. What really surprised me, ladies and gentlemen, is a letter from Mr Grillitsch – he is unfortunately not here now. On Monday 15th, I received a letter from the President of the Federal Farmers' Federation, in which he has prepared a brochure from the Forum Land; he is there chairman. [[The speaker will keep the above brochure up to date.]] I read in it – 15. October, entrance stamp at my community –: Negotiations for a new financial compensation are just beginning. Forum Land is increasingly committed to achieving a task-oriented financial compensation. - Quote. Mr Grillitsch! We have had a financial compensation for 14 days when I got my hand in this brochure. He then also told me that the financial compensation – still the old one – will apply until 2008. – No, 2008 is already starting the new one. I think that since the Land Forum is a sub-organisation of the Bauer's Federation, it is the same as the Farmers' Federation in general: He's been asleep, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is a naughtiness!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The numbers have already been mentioned here. Some positive developments have already been mentioned here. There is more for childcare, we can keep smaller schools open, the graduated population key is also depleted again. Only one thing has to be clear to us: We have to separate ourselves from the old battle parole of the ÖVP, after which only the big money and the little ones are the poor. For great is not equally rich and small is not equally poor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Donabauer: That's what matters to the economy!]] I think we have to look at very carefully how the funds are really distributed and which communities actually need the money. In this year's financial compensation, we have the approach to this. There is more money in this for rural areas and small communities, but there are also funds for the larger communities that need it because of the benefits they provide. This approach, in my view, is very successful. However, I have found one thing, Minister of Finance: In the context of the administrative reform, they have provided for the municipalities to save a lot in the next few years and, above all, to rationalize 3 757 employees. I wonder how this should happen, because I don't know any community that would have more employees than necessary. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If that's the approach, we could privatise businesses, public health companies, in order to be able to free people in this way, I have to say: Public services belong to the public!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5012	Mrs Schittenhelm. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5034	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! High house! So I have to say, Mr Rossmann trusts something! [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Yes, yes!]] He makes himself here and insults the mayors from Vorarlberg to Burgenland. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: I didn't insult any mayor!]] All the women and men who join the communities call you those who work uneconomically, who waste the money of the citizens, in the absence of knowledge of what tasks a mayor actually has to fulfil, and that the mayors on the ground are very likely to discuss the projects with the citizens. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] You've been sleeping this for a long time, but apparently you never worked at community level! That's what I'm talking [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr Strache says there is a federal animal welfare law here, then we know this and we are pleased about it, but I am against it that you, Mr. Strache, the muzzle and this animal welfare law, are comparing this animal matter with the people in this country. [[Abg. Strache: Caregivers are obviously not even worth as much as animals! This is your disbelief!]] People are unique and individual, and I regret, Mr. Strache, that you see this differently. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know it hurts you that even after the last Minister of Finance there is one that is even better, our Willi Molterer. [[Abg. Strache: It hurts you because you rule irresponsibly!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] He has not only made the double budget in the shortest time, he has not only achieved this financial compensation in just three rounds of discussions – with all the federal states, one has to say. He has designed this financial compensation not only because he knows about the needs in the communities and countries, but because he knows what municipalities and countries need, because he knows that the requirements and challenges are getting more. We know that, ladies and gentlemen, we all live in municipalities and localities. He was aware of the situation in the federal states – this is what distinguishes our Minister of Finance – and he knew where to do it. Let's not always talk about having some scandals in the care sector! Of course there are problems, but no scandals! This also applies to education. We will have problems when the rural area is addressed here. Do you know when we get these? - When we start the entire school. We looked at this in Lower Austria. Introducing the entire school means closing 50 percent of the schools for the wine district. Where is the rural area? We have to prevent this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: But you have signed this in the government program! You signed the project Total School in the government programme!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: It's not in it at all! That's not true! It's not in there at all! For God's sake!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is a financial compensation that treats the small communities fairly. For the first time, there is the same amount of money for those communities that have less than 10,000 inhabitants. For one thing is clear – and I reject this centralist-communist statement by Mr Rossmann: [[Abg. May. Rossmann: That's huge!]] Of course, the small communities also need infrastructure, and of course the small communities need the same education and care. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Where did you go to school?]] In total, ladies and gentlemen, in the first three years, €320 million will be added to these 23 billions already paid to the communities. The financial compensation is divided into two stages, and in the second stage, it is allocated to the municipalities, for the countries of 530 million euros. If we can present this financial compensation in this form today, ladies and gentlemen, this also has its reasons. It has already been said by Mr Jakob Auer: This does not come from somewhere, but it is the structurally compatible government work under Wolfgang Schüssel, which makes this financial compensation possible at all, and of course the money of taxpayers and taxpayers, which is used by our finance ministers in an excellent, responsible way. This too is undisputed, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Politics simply needs solid finances, we have to say that too. When I look at Lower Austria, there I know in detail how it affects, there I can only say: more money for smaller communities, funding care money secured, ecologically low Austrian housing promotion unaffected – was not a topic for the greens, nor was it interested – and € 316 million more for Lower Austria. I believe that the other federal states can also say this in this form. That's why I can only say one thing: Thanks to our Minister of Finance, thank you, I am not saying a Vice-Chancellor, but thanks to our job chancellor! Thank you very much, Willi Molterer!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5214	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5236	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Great was the talk about the future project. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, you have just presented us with a package for six years, a collection of figures that, in our criticism, does not meet people's problems. They have made pure distribution policy between the federal government, countries, communities, but not target-oriented, task-oriented redesign. Therefore our criticism, therefore our rejection. I should like to give some specific examples. – Childcare sites: We need at least 50 000 additional childcare places. You have spoken of extra € 40 million. I think that's what I'm going to do. They are in no way able to guarantee the increased requirement of childcare. Second concrete example from the field of life of local people in the local communities, in the municipalities, in the countries: the care, today already discussed several times. You have said: extra money for the care. I'll tell you: In future, we will have to provide legal funding for over 40 000 full-time workers. For this your money from the financial balance will not be sufficient. Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, next example: You yourself said – Mr. stupid –: Climate protection, a major task for the future, a major topic in financial compensation. I'll tell you: They have been caught up in managing the climate change tasks in your negotiations. It's very concrete, very exemplary. Mr Finanzminister and Vice-Chancellor, you spoke about housing promotion and said: Yes, the €1.7 billion we still guarantee the countries. Do you know that the €1.7 billion has already been covered since 1997 and we have additional requirements? How do you want to deal with the additional rehabilitation tasks that we need to move forward in the sense of climate protection when the money is covered? Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, I will show you how this looks. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: You don't know the financial compensation!]] – I certainly know him; Community Linz, Upper Austria, so I know it from all perspectives. Let us therefore take a very specific look at the situation during the renovation process. We know that the heating grant is based on the fact that many people now have to spend more money on energy so that they have it warm at all. Increased prices, plus 10 percent in heating costs and electricity. And what happens? – You do not support the thermal insulation on site with additional refurbishment funds, so that the heating costs are lower, no, you leave it to the federal states as they please. That is how it looks in the federal states, “according to wishes. ” The conditions for renovation to get housing support for renovation are so different, are so confused, are so diverse that they are not even graphical. This is your climate protection at least nine times, which is impenetrable, not accurate and inefficient, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One could reduce heating costs with federal uniform regulations. – Example from Linz: There is an exemplaryly renovated multi-storey residential property, which used to be 40 € per unit for heating and operating costs, and now, after renovation towards passive house, it is – what do you think, Mr. Vice-Chancellor? – not even €4. This is a difference of 36 €! This difference of 36 € for the individual tenants leave you to the left, I tell you, with your comfort on Article-15a contracts, that the countries agree on a common level, on better standards. It's a song from yesterday. We know the matter with Article 15a agreements; we have not yet got any of the building law. I would like to give you a specific example: Imagine nine tenants living in a building, you as finance minister generally give these nine tenants the sum x, and then watch how these nine tenants in the building agree on what they use the sum x for. One wants to install a lift, the other wants an additional garage, the third wants to exchange the windows, the fourth wants to improve the sanitary facilities – and there is no joint decision. That's the situation. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: You want to prescribe everything!]] Yes, we need uniform standards, otherwise you will never reach the national climate change targets. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: "Freedom" is a foreign word for you!]] Mr Vice-Chancellor, one last example. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Look at this! This is your work, a complete merger in the construction regulations, quite different levels in the federal states. [[the speaker shows a graphic]] The financial compensation could have rehabilitated this – you didn't do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5326	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5347	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! This so highly praised financial compensation, so much praised by the ÖVP speakers, is at best a drop on the hot stone and therefore had to be preferred – that has already been noted by Mr Krainer of the SPÖ – because in reality the municipalities and the countries were no longer able to make their contribution to the federal budget. What the communities and the countries have done in the past were actually just surplus accounts, which has not been available at all. But these so-called surplus accounts must be repaid, you must not forget. Examples: National hospitals have been outsourced, sold to their own companies, and this sales proceeds has been returned to the national budgets. Just, the debt doesn't seem to be in the national budgets. In reality, this means a €2 billion accounting transaction that still has to be paid back by the countries and communities. Municipal properties, state-owned properties were also outsourced, 1 billion €, and residential loans worth 5.5 billion € were sold to banks. Residential loans, the return of which would in fact have been necessary for additional social housing, have been sold. If you look at this situation in total, the countries and communities were no longer able to make their contribution. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor, it is already true that the financial compensation is a technical matter that may only be understood by a few, but feel it all, above all that feels the municipal citizens who are permanently burdened in addition. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's right!]] I know that as a local politician. In order not to speak beautifully and speak of any figures here, I will give you an example from my home community; only comparisons between 2002 and 2006, additional burden on a small community for health, pension and community associations. Family care allowance: an increase of 8.2 percent; Private-law social assistance contribution: a plus of 82 percent since 2002, plus € 18 800; the disability contribution to the country of Tyrol: a plus of 72 percent; the grant to the districtal home, debt service: a plus of 17.5 percent; the contribution to the district hospital and the health care fund: a plus of 16.9 percent, at least € 18 500; the contribution to the social pension scheme Deffereggental/Kals: a plus of 33 percent, plus € 3 000. You could continue in a small community at any rate. Considering that you are now saying that in addition 100 million € are going towards the community: After God in heaven, do you really believe that the problems can be solved permanently? It's a drop on the hot stone at best. The truth is that the financial compensation is unfair and that the municipal citizen has to pay more and more in relation; with the consequence that the municipal citizen is additionally burdened on contributions, on municipal charges such as water connection fees, water charges for meter rental, canal connection fees, garbage fees and so on. [[Call the ÖVP: Don't shout like that! Leiser!]] Under the rule, this unjust financial compensation means that the communities are increasingly impoverishing, citizens are increasingly being taken into their pockets. [[Abg. That's the ÖVP plan!]] Mr Finanzminister! Above, at federal level, milk citizens with taxes, and below, at municipal level, the citizens have an additional burden over fees and contributions with the consequence that larger and larger population groups are impoverishing. That is why it is not surprising that there is a report from the ÖGB in Tyrol, which says that in Tyrol alone, in a rich country such as Tyrol, 95 000 Tyroleans live at the poverty line, this border is at risk of poverty, with an increase of € 771. You know what really shocks me? – That of these 95 000 Tyroleans, who are vulnerable to poverty, 25 000 are at risk despite work. Mr Finanzminister, this is really a scandal! That's where we have to sit. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We must finally see that the communities also get money to do with their additional tasks. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5423	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5445	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As the last speaker on the financial compensation, I would like to say: There is no financial compensation for the first time, there has already been a financial compensation. Some have proclaimed this as if it were a century reform, a century coup that has succeeded here. But one thing, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, is already left: If you say so, you do so, so you make a financial compensation so that Austria can do well, then you also have to ask yourself the question and please whether people in Austria are doing well, whether it is of equal importance, to say: Austria is doing well! and: People are fine! I don't think this balance of the goal you've made here is right anymore. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Austria is doing well – no question at all. [[Abg. Scheibner: Until last year!]] But please also tell us why Austria is doing well: Because we have been making a responsible economic, tax and financial policy since 2000 which has made it possible... – Mr Matznetter, you have stood out here and have defied the group taxation, you have mistreated it, you have spoken badly of economic policy, and today we hear and read on every occasion that Mr German Chancellor Gusenbauer is a model student of the European Union abroad – thanks to a reasonable tax reform that has been made thanks to a great economic and structural reform that has been made. [[OBJECTIVES]] [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter.]] That's the truth, stand by it! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New interim remark by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter.]] Don't forget that people are not as good as the state budget! Don't forget that, as can be seen from the example of Germany, the tax revenue is bubbling! Germany, of course also through the increase in VAT, currently has more tax revenue of €12 billion. The economic experts and economists calculate tax revenue for Austria of approximately €3 billion in this year. Would it not be useful and very timely to return the money to those people who have provided this economic recovery, who have made sure that we have so much tax revenue, and who now need the money again to allow it to flow into the economy so that we can finally get into the situation to make some progress in the internal economy? It will be the internal economy, Mr State Secretary and Mr Vice-Chancellor, who will ensure our long-term survival at a high economic level. We can't stand the results of exports on our own. You just have to admit this, even if the export economy is booming and we are achieving very high successes over exports. But this is a reliable partner that we cannot use on time. Mr. Vice-Chancellor, you have chosen a skillful method, without a doubt: They gave more money to the communities because you knew that the communities in their emergency situation, through the compensation they had to achieve in their budget, were forced to introduce and increase a lot of taxes so that they could at all finance cost-effectively. They have given more money to the communities – that is good and right, but please also say that this is the consistent continuation of a policy that has not existed since this time, but that has been going on and on since 2000 because we have seen that the communities do not get lost with their resources, the people in rural areas are worse, and have a right that all people in Austria, whether they live in a 200-soul community or in a large city, are equally valuable. This is also the approach of this financial compensation, which we feel is a good one. For example, if you say, Mr President, that Mr Molterer is the model boy of the government, if I put this to the point, the chancellor of employment, because he has achieved a budget in record time, because he has now sent the Federal Budget Act into consideration, yes, well, then say to it, dear colleague stupidly, how long we have been consulting this Federal Budget Act in this House: it is four years in total. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: I didn't say that! He is the “Work Chancellor ”!]] [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] [[Call the ÖVP: Very right!]] I think it is high time to make a decision after four years so that something goes on in this country. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] To sum up, Mr Vice-Chancellor, Mr State Secretary, we believe [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] The odds are flawed. This coalition has nothing to do with it, but it is pushing the skills into the countries. There they are better lifted than in the Federal Government.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5565	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:17:09]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5586	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5666	The BZÖ Parliamentary Club has, according to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure requested the written question 1644/J by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, Ladies and gentlemen to the Federal Minister for Justice on no urgent treatment of child abuse and of dangerous early arrests. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. The urgent request also submitted before the entry into the agenda of the parliamentary club may, within the meaning of § 57b para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5696	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform the House that Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek has requested that the Justice Committee report on Members' request 3/A. Lunacek, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law establishing the Federal Act on the Civil Pact and amending other laws, a period of time until 4. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. The request made by Dr. Bösch for a brief debate on the reply to the question 1307/AB of the Federal Minister for European and International Affairs is in accordance with § 57b para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform the House that Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek has requested that the Justice Committee report on Members' amendment 5/A. Lunacek, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of until 4. ==References== This request will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5746	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 7, 10 and 11 as well as 20 to 22 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are therefore going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5773	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debates. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, Green and FPÖ per 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. For the time of television transmission until 13.00, the following speaking time agreement has been reached: one speech per group of 6 minutes each, then one member of the government with 10 minutes, then one speech per group of 4 minutes each, then one member of the government with 7 minutes, then one word per group of 4 minutes each, and one word per group of 3 minutes each. It is spoken in the order counter-pro. Every round during the television broadcast starts with double. The President-in-Office of the Council/Chairman shall, before the end of the final round, evenly distribute the remaining term of speech to the political groups after consultation with the presidents of the club. Actual corrections will only be made after the television broadcast has ended. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[11:21:05]] 1. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (229 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Childcare Act, the Karenzgeldsgesetz and the General Social Insurance Act (250 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Childcare Act (KBGG), BGBl. I No. 103/2001, as amended (251 e.g.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. 4. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 189/A(E) by Mr Barbara Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the extension of the period of entitlement for a parent to 36 months (253 e.g.) 5. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 290/A(E) by Mr Barbara Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the maintenance of the 30-month period of health insurance even when choosing the short benefit in the Childcare Act (254 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on amendment 215/A(E) by Mrs Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues with regard to strengthening families through tax deductibility of child care costs, the introduction of a care check and the abolition of the pension limit on childcare allowance (255 d.e.c.) 7. Point Report by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection on the motion for a resolution (Doc. Year of life of the child (256 d.e.c.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5898	We now come to points 1 to 7 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mrs. Third-President, Dr. Glawischnig-Piesczek, has been mentioned. 6 minutes speaking time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e5928	Madam President. My women's ministers on the government bank! Appreciate ladies and gentlemen! After very, very long discussions, after months of debate, we finally find the novelle on the Childcare Money Act. This time, I believe, also reflects a very inconvenient picture of the climate in the great coalition. Over months, the discussion has gone on and on: The Minister of Women says A, the Minister of Family says B, that proposals are rejected in post. This, I believe, provided a good insight into the workings of the coalition, namely that the great coalition is not capable of bringing about large solutions, but can only bake very, very small rolls. This is very bad because it would have been good for a large throw, for a modern childcare law that facilitates and does not make it difficult for fathers and mothers to work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are two positive points to be mentioned, however, with regard to the length of the debate and the severity of the debate, it is only very, very small solutions that have been found here. Firstly, to mention positively is, of course, the flexibilization that there are now several variants. One can obtain the child's money for shorter periods of time, higher monthly, there are three variants, and if the credit limit is exceeded, there is now a grinding scheme, i.e. it does not have to be repaid the entire child's allowance. – But that’s what it’s all about. We would have liked it to be a real discussion, a serious debate on the future role model: How to distribute care obligations in the families in Austria?, and how to take seriously to heart the positive models that exist in many other countries and simply look away from the functioning things, especially the Scandinavian countries. Family policy remains a key to equality in terms of incomes. In the light of the fact that almost every second woman in Austria now works part-time, that the income shears continue to disperse and that the very low level of care for fathers has risen from 3 to 3.2 percent, it would have needed a big throw and not this small, very, very unruly reform or this referendum. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am completely incomprehensible about the position of the ÖVP, because I believe that the ÖVP must also be interested in the fact that women who have taken the time to invest in their training, who have also taken time for the profession, who have fought for, who are in a certain way scratching the glass ceiling, which is also in the society of equal rights for women, that precisely these women are not punished by such a child-money model. But that is still the case. This child money model is an iron ball at the foot of the active mothers, especially well-trained mothers who are trying to stay in the door with a foot, and who will continue to be extremely disabled with the limit of honour and chaos that will be associated with it. That's very bad. I don't understand what women's image is You really have to make it difficult for women, including you, Mrs. Federal Minister for Family, to put work and family under a hat. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is also completely incomprehensible to me why you always want to demand more service from the fathers and make it visible in a model, for example by linking part of the money to fatherly care obligations, with the forced argument. I do not understand this, especially in the light of the background that it is not freedom for many women to decide, but a duty. They say that men would be forced – but for women, that often means the same force. So the arguments do not agree with each other, except one still has a very traditional role model: For the woman, it's a duty, she has to make it easy, and the man can decide. I do not understand this, especially since you are sitting in your ranks of modern women, for whom it is natural that men and fathers take care of the same duties of care and take care of this unpaid work not only of the children, but also of the older family members. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In the direction of SPÖ: Many suggestions, which were very important to you, you just threw overboard. What has become of the proposal by Minister of Social Affairs Buchinger to introduce the “papa month”? - We can't see any more of that. What has been done about the very important concern not to further discriminate against single parents? Single parents now receive less money than couples. – That is not at all to argue. Their great open wound is still that people who do not have Austrian citizenship – in this case it is the subsidiary protected people who are persecuted in their home country – and whose children continue to be discriminated against and disadvantaged. I don't understand that either. I don't understand why you haven't fought for these very important concerns anymore. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you are now pleased that the limit of trust is raised, Mrs. Federal Minister, I can tell you that I have made the effort to read the text of the law once again. I am saving you these 19 lines – which is completely incomprehensible – but what you provide in information material for parents who want to know how to stick to the limit of trust, that is really worth reading. I would like to put this to your heart once again, and I would like to know who of those present can actually understand it and actually do it. ‘The gross income without special payments earned during the period of child benefit shall be reduced by the statutory deductions’ – contributions to social security, housing promotion contributions, chamber envelopes. The wage tax base thus determined is divided by the number of months with entitlement to payment of the child care allowance and multiplied by 12 to receive an annual amount. The advertising costs will be deducted. After that, this amount will be increased by 30 percent by 13th and 14ths. Take into account monthly salary and social security contributions on a flat-rate basis.’ I honestly ask you: Are You are able, without an expert, to solve this matter in any way satisfactory to yourself without a tax advisor or a tax advisor? I think this is completely excluded – but you demand it from parents!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6019	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6040	Madam President. Federal Ministers! A key challenge to family policy is to make family life and work as compatible as possible through appropriate framework conditions for mothers and fathers. The child care allowance has been available for all mothers and fathers for five years, from the student to the full house woman to the self-employed professional and entrepreneur – i.e. a child care allowance for all. In recent years, the number of people involved has more than doubled from 78 000 to 170 000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! A time to create framework conditions that allow all forms of family life to be better reconciled between work and family life, but not enough. There must be ongoing positive developments. We are taking an important step in this direction today. The childcare allowance for all will now be extended on the basis of the government negotiations and thanks to the excellent negotiations of the Minister of Family Dr. Andrea Kdolskyum. [[Bravorufe at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why is Mrs. Brinek not on the speaker list?]] ==References====External links== January 2008 – I think it is also good to say, in particular, to the listeners in front of the television sets, what matters is positive – these three new variants are also available for births before 2008 by means of a transitional arrangement: [[Abg. Oils: It's gonna be hard!]] The first variant: It is possible to continue to obtain €436 for 36 months – of which at least six months of the partners. [[Members of the ÖVP shall keep tables up to date, each of which is shown under the heading ‘New child money’, one of the future possible variants of child benefits.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: (looking towards the plates) Mr Klubobmann, we would like to have a binocular!]] [[Further calls.]] – I don’t know why there’s excitement? I think every family can decide for itself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: The shorter they go, the less they get!]] Or: 624 € for 24 months. Or: 800 € for 18 months. – I think that is a sum that shows how important it is for us to give families or mothers and fathers the opportunity to reconcile work and family. In addition, the amount of child care allowance is increased from €14 600 to €16 200 per year. An important innovation is also the so-called looping scheme, so that only more will have to be paid back in the future if the amount of credit is exceeded. This increase is also made at 16 200 € in the grant for child care. This is more than a triple over the previous limit. But there is something to be clarified here: The grant is intended to meet the often difficult situation of single parents or low-income families, and it is a short-term credit from the State, which is provided in addition to child care benefits. I also mentioned that there was a transitional arrangement for births before the 1st century. - Yes, there are. This means that all children born in 2007, with their mothers or fathers, are also included in this improvement that will take place from 2008. Ladies and gentlemen! I am also pleased in this regard to the insight of our government partner, as this further flexibilization is an important and overdue step in a future in which young people should be made easier to say yes to children. Especially Federal Minister Andrea Kdolsky, in tough negotiations with her team at the Federal Ministry, succeeded in making further improvements beyond the government program, for example the third variant, 20 plus 24 months, adapted to the employment protection of self-employed workers – a wish of many in the ÖVP. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 20 plus 4! Let's stick to the truth!]] And if this improvement now wants to attach the SPÖ to the flags, it is also good. Successes always have many mothers and fathers. Only: In the government negotiations, Federal Minister Kdolsky was not yet involved, unlike Mrs Bures. I ask you, Mrs Bures, why this enlargement has not already been rehearsed at the time. Nor is the attitude to the demands of the Chamber of Labour and the ÖGB regarding working time regulations quite clear to me. – I say that it would be a great incision in the open spaces of mothers and fathers. This reduction in working time is only appropriate for a particular small group of the unemployed. The needs of average earners in professions such as the seller, hairdresser, thus primarily in the service sector, which remained on the track. A working time limit is the same as the introduction of a two-class society and is not, in fact, verifiable. Ladies and gentlemen! The question of children is a question of the future and the future capacity of a society. It is therefore absolutely important that this government, with Vice-Chancellor and Finance Minister Willi Molterer, sets out measures with a focus on child- and family-friendliness. If we build for our families and children for the future, we can build on them in the future too!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6167	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6188	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The opportunity to develop child care money in a positive sense has unfortunately been rejected with today's novelle. Instead of developing the system of child care money in a positive sense, it has been unnecessarily complicated. That is exactly what we need to see today. Unfortunately, a good and important project is placed in the sand of God for a long time – so you have to interpret it unfortunately. I also note that there seems to be an anti-family coalition here. If I look at the contents, this unfortunately does not correspond to any improvement of God at all. You should have taken the right step with the removal of the earner's limit! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is exactly the crucial point: delete the limit of merit without replacement! . We will also make a request in this regard today. – This would also reduce the administrative burden that is absolutely unnecessary, would be unnecessary. It is all about freedom of choice: freedom of choice for families, where every child should be equally valuable and where it is not to be permanently stated to the families, what they have to do and how they have to shape their family life and their educational life with their children. It's supposed to be a free choice for families! This means freedom and freedom of choice – and not wanting to rule or rule in families. That is the case, however, of God. In one case, the childcare allowance of course has the function of an effort allowance for the caring parent, in the other case, the childcare allowance should be paid for out-of-home care. That's what a design should look like. Today we are faced with the problem of many mothers having to work for hunger wages, cut off for a half-day hunger wage, and most of the Then, in essence, child care is worth it – not only for childcare, but also the journey to work often takes a lot away from the few wages one has, because fuel costs, car costs and insurance costs have increased so much – and then remains a bagatoll amount. But families often depend on this amount of luggage, which is often indispensable to families! If you simply act in this way, as you have done, you have to bear in mind that families as a whole seem to be stepchildren in this state for you – if it is not about asylum families, where, of course, you often shout up and say, there are quite situations to be criticized. But when it comes to Austrian families living on the edge of poverty or below the poverty line, I miss your cry! And for that very thing, there should be a child's allowance and be extended to three years. That would be a real way! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Instead of helping families, one has once again chosen the way of complicating the system, bloating the administrative burden. They are also talking about an alleged increase in the limit of merit. [[Abg. Grill: From a real one!]] The alleged increase in the earnability limit, which you also presented, is apparent from closer consideration as a partial inflation adjustment : [[Abg. Grill: Not a supposed, an actual one!]] In fact, an increase of 10.96 percent in the earnings limit is compared with an inflation-related price increase of 11.41 percent. And if you now take the massive price of rent, energy, food as a whole from September – these prices, of which families are of course particularly affected – these are not even included in this calculation. That's exactly one of the points: We want to remove the limit of trust without replacement. We are going to make a request to that effect today. We would also like to make it clear that there are no senseless forethoughts of adults, of parents, of families as a whole. We want to extend the childcare allowance to three years. We want to ensure that improvements are finally made in the area of families, i.e. the extension of labour law to three years, i.e. until the time when children enter kindergartens. We want to ensure that all family benefits are adjusted regularly. We want to introduce a family tax division – we will also make a request for it. I am already excited how the ÖVP, after having written off from our electoral programme, will then act on this question. But at least one has once begun to take on something positive! I'm glad! In total, the following should be noted: It needs improvements and no deterioration! – And the shame that will be done today is that, while you have received a total of €13 236 in the previous model of the child care allowance, in the new model of short-performance 1 and short-performance 2 there is a minus – a minus of €1 133 in the first and a minus of €590 in the second short-performance model – that the families will get less, that is the wrong way! Because children are the highest asset in our society, and we have to do everything we can to support our Austrian families and all that helps our Austrian families to be able to afford a second, a third, or perhaps even a fourth, so that our society also has a future! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: That's why we don't think of a perspective towards homoehen equality, as the ÖVP suggests it. We reject that!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6272	Next, Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6308	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, you have to close your eyes quite firmly in order to find no improvements in today's novel. Unfortunately, you have succeeded. [[Abg. Strache: Real cut!]] It's a good day for me today. I have been here very often in recent years and have called for exactly these reforms that we are going to decide on today. And, Mrs Steibl, because you are saying that the EIA has done so much in the negotiations, I would like to ask you: Who did the ÖVP actually get to do with? [[Abg. Steibl: I was there myself!]] That is the point of our demands. We would have liked to have had a little more improvements, that is true, but I rather believe that the ÖVP has come up with it, finally after the many years in which you have blocked these reforms with us, and I am very pleased about the change of attitude in your party and I am pleased that we can decide with each other today. [[Interlocutory calls from MEPs, Steibl and Rauch-Kallat]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] These reforms, ladies and gentlemen, were urgently needed. This has also proved the evaluation you have commissioned at the time and has been shown in the point by point that the goals you set yourself with the introduction of child money have been missed – point by point. The objectives were: Increased freedom of choice – the evaluation says: is not the case – improves the compatibility of family and profession – according to evaluation: applies only to certain occupational groups, but not to most of those concerned –, positive impulses for the working life of women – your evaluation says, quite the opposite is the case, only half of the women find return to the profession after the child care allowance –, increase the participation of fathers in the care of children – your evaluation says it is no effect, and it finds itself the following formulation: The fathers only participate in the financial context, and since only fathers from some professional groups, namely the self-employed and the farmers, have the possibilities of making their incomes. [[Abg. Oils: Nothing changed!]] That is why I am very glad that we are also following the recommendations of your evaluation and today we are making significant improvements – improvements, Mr Strache, yes! – decide. [[Abg. Strache: Circumcision of the option is the success! Work can no longer be done over the limit of merit! They're preventing this!]] The option, Mrs Glawischnig, between the three variants that will be selected is not a small step in my view and not a small reform – even if I am missing points that you have rightly addressed here. But this option between three variants means that in the future those who make a shorter break for babies who receive shorter children's money no longer belong to the losers, to the losers as before, because unlike now, those who receive children's money for 18 months will receive €6 500 more money than before, and this is a significant improvement, Mrs. Glawischnig. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How do you expect that? You can do this to me in detail, please.]] 6 500 € are very, very money for most Austrian families! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Is that monthly?]] [[Abg. Strache: This is the “Gitti-Ederer-Tausender”! The “Gitti-Ederer-Tusher” is again, which is missing every family afterwards!]] Of course, it will continue to be possible to make a longer baby break, taking full time at the level of the child care allowance so far. However, I must say, even on the basis of your evaluation, that I can't recommend this heart because we just know that women then only find the way back into the job very hard, even if they want it. Therefore, it was also important to improve the limit of commitment to enable women to return to the job with one foot during the baby break, if women want to do so. Another important effect we expect from these options that we will decide today is that the situation for fathers will be improved, that fathers choose to stay at home at all, to choose the short model, and with the higher reference to the loss of income a little less. However, we also want further reforms here: The “papa month”, already mentioned by Minister Buchinger, is a point that we want to tackle in the next few years. What we would have liked to improve is the situation of single-parents – that is true – and I assume that the short-model also brings relief to the situation of single-parents, because only single-parents with the lower amount of child care allowance could often not stay at home for a very long time and this will bring an improvement here, although the point has remained open – we still have three years, in the next three years, we also want to take up important reforms in this area – to give the single-parents the opportunity to make full reference. The Trust limit has been improved, but not to the extent that we wanted it to be. We wanted – and still want this – that if someone decides to reduce working time, the limit of pay will not be met. We believe that the chaos of the last time clearly showed that there would have been a need for greater reform here. To sum up, from my point of view, a good and important reform, even if, as I have said, a few points have been left open: the limit of merit, the single parents, even those entitled to subsidiary protection – a small group, but a group of persons who needed the support especially urgently – improvements in order to make the father's participation easier and possible. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] As has been said today, many important steps will be taken, and in the next three years we will continue to follow.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6454	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 6 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6475	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mrs Kuntzl, you are saying that it would have been better to abolish the limit of merit: Why didn't you do it? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Well, na, na, na, na! Watch out!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Listen!]] You're the Federal Chancellor, you've been negotiating, and you've failed! [[Abg. Strache: They prevent the work of mothers! That's where mothers' work is prevented!]] It is because of your failure to admit here today that the limit of merit, one of the greatest injustices that exists at all, continues to exist! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And this approach lacks any kind of famous, infamous social warmth that the SPÖ always tries to radiate. It is coldly absorbed by the families by the two ministers, through this repayment move. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Who decided to pay the child's money?]] [[Call the SPÖ – towards the speaker –:Your government!]] Mrs. Kdolsky, you spoke a few weeks ago about a maximum of 300 to 500 cases – and have now been transferred to falsehood because it is already over 1,500 refund decisions. And these are not louder well-reported families and women who deserve so much anyway, but the vast majority are people and families who live on the social border! [[Abg. Strache: Single earners often! Alone earners who are thrown!]] That's your refund notice! We have this one case of the family M. from Lower Austria with two children – a real case – where the woman has worked in a company that has slid into bankruptcy – not her own indebtedness, and from the compensation fund two years later, she has received the minimum salary that is due to her. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: wasn't that the head?]] [[Call the SPÖ: Your Minister of Family!]] And of course she was above the limit of merit! This poor woman then became seriously ill – breast cancer if you are interested – and now she is unemployed. And now she receives a notice from the woman minister about €5 303 extra payment! – This woman is at risk in her existence! We have shown this case and have brought it to the public – that is, responsibility! –, and a day later, the local health insurance fund called this woman and said: Yes, we withdraw this notice. But why? – Because we have brought this case to the public and because, as a lawyer of the families and women, we are here for justice and we are also persevering, ladies and gentlemen, not the minister! Or, a second case: [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: You decided, Mr Westenthaler!]] Family A. from Carinthia. The child is seriously ill in the world – a seriously ill child: Intensification station, weeks between life and death. The father has to do overtime, because they have to finance additional medications, and thus is slightly above the limit of merit. Now, Mrs. Kdolsky, we are demanding 3 005 € in return! We will also represent this family in court and will achieve a success for them. What you are doing is a non-social robbery through the pockets of the children, the families and the women in this country! We will continue to fight these, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] What about the ÖVP, which is deeply divided on this question? Where, then, is Mrs Brinek today, who just a few days ago in the newspaper “Austria” called for the abolition of the limit of self-employment? Where is the honourable Member Amon, who calls for the abolition of the limit of merit? What about the Vienna ÖVP delegates and the Styrian, who have also launched an initiative? – Yes, Mr Missethon! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Yes!]] Maybe you'll get to the speaker's desk! There is a deep crack through the ÖVP, because there are also representatives there with a social conscience. It would have been your duty to force your minister to remove this non-social limit of merit, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] We will continue to represent these families, for it is a shame to this federal government that socially in need must defend women in court against their existence. That is really incredible and unsocial! The increase of the limit of merit is also a huge shame! 14 600 € she has been so far. It is forgotten, however, that there was a 15 percent hardness compensation for these affected families. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] That is to say, the earner's limit had a margin and was now reduced by exactly € 590, because there is no longer a hard-term compensation fund and no room for these families. That's true, that's the crasher. In reality, the whole model that exists today is where you get less and less money, the shorter you use children's money – at 20 months minus 600 €, at 15 months minus 1 080 €; do you know what that is? - a scandalous excavator. Every hat game is more serious, every catalog game is more honest than what you're doing with the families with the women in this country. That's why we say: We want performance in the household to be recognised as well. We have therefore tried to develop a fair model. Yes, we believe that someone who is “shaping” the household, who is educating children – not only caring for and operating as a household manager, but also giving children love, warmth, nesting and responsibility – should not in any way be labeled as a housewife, but also that he should enjoy a mother’s salary, at least with a minimum wage of € 1,000. This would be a measure which would also cover the hard-working mothers, who have little money at all because of the high cost of living. This is a measure we have developed! We ask you to implement it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: And the fathers?]] That would be a social measure that also works – not to fall for child money, not shy, no tricks, not to force families to go to court, but a mother's content for mothers who do great work every day from early to late and who have long forgotten you from social democracy and you from the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6704	Next, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke with a speaking time of 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6726	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen on the crowds! I think with today's decision of the Novelle on child care, we ensure that Austria takes another, another step on the way to a more child- and family-friendly country. These include many things: You can not only talk about financing or the possibility of choice, it is also a little bit about a thinking process. I am very glad that this discussion has been held so intensively and also so substantially, because a discussion that has such a significance shows the importance of the families and the importance of the future of families in this country. I would feel sad if we were to discuss such a central issue very briefly. I'm very glad we can find a solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The success model Childcare money will be improved by a further step with this novel, and above all the compatibility of work and family will continue to be facilitated. With the three variants during the period of reference, we create optimal framework conditions in order to ultimately create a flexible return to working life. With the increase in the amount of earnings and the threefold increase in the amount of the contribution, which is available to single women and men in particular, we also facilitate the possibility of creating a co-existence between work and family. We also give those parents whose children before the 1st century. Born January 2008, the possibility to switch to one of the two new short variants, giving here an extremely long option time. I think this too has been created for the first time in this law. [[Abg. Oillingers: You promised us otherwise!]] The demand to create a better job for single parents is constantly emerging. First of all, I think that a better creation has been created, especially by supporting single-parents, as the amount of child care support has also been increased from €5 200 to €16 200. In addition, the information from the daily changing amounts of recoveries is such – because this continues continuously – that one fifth affects children's benefits and four fifths the grants. [[Abg. Steibl: The media are wrong to report about it!]] For this very reason, we have tripled the limit of the commitment for the grants, because we have also seen a need for action. Significantly More In this way, single teachers also have the opportunity to receive the grants and to obtain a monthly improvement in their financial situation. Equal treatment is our top principle, and this is also true of child care. I would like to make it clear again that there is no discrimination on the part of single parents. Like all other parents, they also receive child care allowance up to 30. The child's life. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The future choice between the three variants of the child care allowance also guarantees the single parents to find the ideal model for compatibility between work and family. In my view, it is particularly important for these people to be able to ensure their own social security in the long term. The intention relates to three major topics: Compatibility of the profession and family, second, to promote and animated the fathers for childcare, to take this essential part in child rearing, and finally to enable the children to grow up, which seems best suited to mothers and fathers for their children. That your own family, whose parents have a special importance here, confirms the latest developmental psychological research. Parents need – and we know that about the major youth studies we are currently in our home – above all the opportunity to reconcile their careers with the family and have no financial disadvantages. The flexibilization of child care benefits, as well as the introduction of the rules, corresponds to the individual needs of the workers in the various professional sectors. I believe that these different professional sectors are an essential factor, as well as a fair calculation of the different possibilities of merit existing in our financial system, so that we can re-establish the equality of all those who have to obtain this childcare allowance. [[Congratulations to the ÖVP and to Mr Dr. Cap and Mr Parnigoni.]] The new grinding system ultimately results from an experience that we have made in the past. And, as a politician, we are there to check situations, see if they are portable, and if we see where the mistakes lie, we can also implement changes accordingly. We have recognised that the looping system in the recovery is an essential new point of this law. That is to say, only more will be recovered from the amount that has been paid over the amount of earnings. Ladies and gentlemen! One thing I would like to put out here: We live in a rule of law, and we have Austrian laws. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But you can also cancel it!]] As the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, I have Austrian laws not only to live but to implement them. The accusations that fall here some places refer to a valid Austrian federal law, which is the task of Austrian citizens. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: propose how to abolish this!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I think, of course, the credit scheme is also an attempt to ultimately encourage more fathers on the one hand, on the other hand also to ensure that parents still have enough time for their children. With the abandonment of the earner's limit, many incentives would be automatically removed, including and especially for fathers who emotionally very much like to spend a time with their children. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Furthermore, I would also point out from my commitment to commercial attention as Minister of State that the strained budgetary situation of the family compensation fund does not currently allow for measures that include over €300 million a year. Despite the situation of this family compensation fund, we proposed this increase in the amount of earnings to ensure that, in the end, a possibility of part-time employment is very likely for all in terms of the compatibility of work and family at the time of self-elected. I think we have created a nice solution here together. If we look at them now with the package of also jointly created childcare facilities in an agreement with the countries, if we see that we will also create an increase in financial grants for families with more children over the next few weeks, then I must say: This is a family package that can be seen! I think we must very strongly appeal to the people that we also live family-friendly in this country and that we give a family-friendly pre-life in that country. [[Abg. Oils: What does that mean?]] This is a major step in Austria, together with the framework that policy can create within the framework of its financial possibilities. I am very pleased that we have created this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6872	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e6894	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kdolsky, you just said: a family package that can be seen. I would like to take a closer look at this family package, the novel of today's request. As there are indeed improvements, we also see: the looping scheme that does not have to be paid back if the amount of earnings is exceeded, that the child care allowance can also be used shorter and that there is the same amount of earnability in the grant as in the childcare allowance. We shall therefore vote in favour of these points at second reading. – But that is not enough, ladies and gentlemen! We have to tell you quite honestly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It would have been possible to say in the course of this innovation: The child care allowance, as it has been before, has also brought so many negative effects – especially in the field of the pay-as-you-go area, especially in that it has not succeeded in bringing more fathers into Karenz – that we have to think about the whole system. And that is why we stand for the creation of an income-dependent karenz money, which contributes very much to the fact that fathers also go in Karenz, and hence – and that would be the political throw! – to help women and men divide family and employment more fairly, both in the family and in the profession. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Unfortunately, you have not noticed this opportunity. What angers us particularly about this novel is that you have maintained this miserable limit of merit. I must honestly tell you what the summit is: when Klubobmann Westenthaler stands at the speaker's desk and gives a fire speech about the limit of merit! Your colleagues – look at You'll be around once! – have decided on this childcare allowance! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We didn't execute it!]] Mrs Haubner was then State Secretary! – And the colleague Scheibner, too, Mr Scheibner! [[Abg. Scheibner: You were against it!]] You've decided for yourself, and today you're standing there! And that's how you're doing politics! We know that. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When it comes to you, there is no child money at all! Asylum Children's money would be there then!]] That is, by leaving the limit of commitment and on the other hand refusing to reduce working time as another option, you really do not allow the freedom of choice between family work and work. You do not do that with this novel, and you know that too, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ. I don't know why you agreed to this ÖVP-dominated novel. The commitment limit prevents the freedom of choice, in particular of women between work and family, and you agree – I really do not understand why! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The single parents are clearly worse in this novel. And Mrs. Kdolsky, you promised us in the Family Committee – you promised! – that you will achieve that the single parents are not disadvantaged. [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Mrs. Minister, you have fallen by, you have not achieved this! And you have to stand here and today. You did it – really! –I'll tell you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] One last point I would like to address here, which has also been forgotten, is to address new forms of life. There are couples where father and mother do not live together, who we would like to support, that even the fathers who do not live in the same place of residence, in the same apartment, can naturally take care of the children and take care of a child care allowance – also the social parents. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Unfortunately, you failed. - Shame.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e7031	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e7054	Mr President. Ladies Minister! Mr Darabos, I am pleased that you are also taking the time to participate in the child care debate. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Bravo!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: That should be of course!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Dear visitors! Sustainable family policy to be able to live the compatibility of family and work, these are important concerns of our fellow citizens, whom we should take seriously by politicians and also create the necessary conditions. And we ÖVP politicians take this task very seriously, my dear colleagues from the Greens, the BZÖ and the FPÖ. We are taking a decisive step forward today in the form of the present government proposal. My colleague Ridi Steiblhat has already carried out content, and you have also seen our Taferl – with the three variants, with the possibilities to obtain the child's money flexibly. The commitment limit will be increased, and, most decisively, as the Minister has already said, we will introduce a looping system so that we can provide information to ladies and gentlemen when there are problems in the field of commitment. I say: not a small step, a big reform, a significant improvement, a success model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We expect that around 30 percent of those involved will opt for the short form – perhaps even then many fathers – that we all want, 40 percent for the middle form and about 30 percent for the previous form of child money. With this, we really create the freedom to choose to be able to live better the compatibility of family and work. This freedom of choice is important to us, therefore, to help and support where it is necessary, but not to premise and not to force. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We're not talking all bad. And, Mr Westenthaler, we have a social conscience. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Where?]] I would like to mention one aspect which is particularly important to me from the point of view of the local politician, that it is also a matter of providing child care in the context of the flexibilization of the childcare allowance, and of course always looking at it from the perspective of the child's well-being. [[Abg. Strache: Instead of family party an industrial lobby party! That's the ÖVP!]] Therefore, the support of day mothers, as negotiated last week in the form of the Article-15a agreement, is a central concern to me. It cannot be that only institutional institutions are promoted. Especially in rural areas, care by daymothers is very important – for example, in Salzburg there are about 5,000 women and a few men who observe this profession – partly as a supplement for kindergartens et cetera. We have to thank God, get €15 million for it – thank you to the two ministers! – and we will make this money available for the training of mothers in the respective countries. I'll get you together. Compatibility of family and profession is important for us as an ÖVP based on freedom to choose. That means helping and supporting. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] I can therefore only ask you to give your consent to this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e7166	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. Speaking time: also 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e7187	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! “Good thing needs a while,” it says, but in this case you can’t claim it. They have argued very long and very publicly about little things, and now there is something there that you really can't call big throw. We also believe that the further development of child care money should have gone in a different direction. What you're presenting here has significant shortcomings. I repeat briefly: One is that this short performance is in truth, and you know that, of course, it is a minor achievement. If you use the short version, you will lose €1 810, especially if you have a week's money, and that's a lot. That's 10 percent of total performance. Secondly, Which devil did you ride to leave the limit of merit? You have caused such difficulties and such social abuses and emergencies – why have you not just removed them? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, it is not right that you should have raised it, because if you look at the money value since the introduction of five years ago, you must admit that it is in fact a reduction of the means of service. Thirdly, This division rule, i.e. the obligation that the other spouse must take part if the money is not to expire, has made you to also bring the fathers into child rearing, but this division rule has not achieved the goal you yourself have set: Only 1.9 percent of the fathers went to childcare, and only those who were able to make their professional day free; in fact, it is less. They should have done away with this and should therefore have been equal to single-parents, but above all to single-earners. All three points contradict freedom of choice, and freedom of choice is – Mrs Glawischnig, I think you said: Freedom of choice!, and then you have come half-half-way – that adult men and women, Austrian mothers and fathers can decide for themselves how they share child care. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In our view, the gap between two and a half years would above all have been closed. Three years is the kindergarten entry age: This is also a developmental psychologically nonsensical age in which children usually find themselves in groups. You should've been up there for three years. That was our proposal, but you did not follow it, and that is a pity. The situation of the family in general. – Children are the safest way to poverty, which demonstrates every statistics. Families with two children already fall far below what is on the average called prosperity, and one of the reasons is the tax system, not because it does not make families better, but because it treats families with gross injustice. Our tax system, of course, is based on performance-based taxation, and performance is not only determined by revenue, but, of course, it also calculates itself according to the maintenance obligation. And if you put it all banally: The more heads of an income must live, the ringer is the per capita income. And family benefits do not compensate for what is nevertheless taxed away! We are therefore bringing forward a motion for a resolution which is finally intended to remedy this issue. The Members who have been signed therefore make the following comments: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the tax division system, which is completely out of question in France between all parties from left to right, and this is also the tax system that Austria's families have earned and which a country, which is based on the lack of children, needs at least.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e7294	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosary is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8165	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8186	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make it clear to the spectators at home at the beginning of my remarks: Mr Steibl, you were there when we tried to negotiate a flexibilization of child money at the time in the government negotiations – we, the SPÖ, I mean now. [[Abg. Steibl: I was there! You never said anything about the model... It was us!]] According to ÖVP, Mrs. Colleague, everything was good as it was. They didn't want any change. I just want to explain this again so that there are no misunderstandings here. It's been a fact that you were satisfied with the way it was, and we weren't. [[Abg. Scheibner: Now you are both dissatisfied!]] Now it is that we – and we both have done this, both parties have done it – have been able to bring in many improvements. I'm far from satisfied, no question. I, too, want an income-dependent care allowance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] We just need to see how we can finance it. Now, however, we have a Minister of Finance, to whom this issue is apparently not the highest of all concerns, otherwise he would have said in the Article 15a agreements: I give five times 15 million, I don't care!, Education is important to me, Childcare is important to me. – It’s not that way, so we have to deal with what we have. [[Abg. Steibl: This is the money of taxpayers...!]] I would also like to say, Mrs Colleague, that we both have negotiated this, and that is all right – for the moment, but not for all the future! First point. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Why would you criticize it?]] Second point: Col. Rauch-Kallat – now, unfortunately, she has gone out – has just become grandmother at the time and was very proud; she is probably still very proud – said: My daughter takes care of this: She's got a baby girl. We have then tried to explain to you all that it is actually very few percent of parents in Austria who can afford to have a baby girl, and that the multitude of men and women who say to children that have children cannot afford to do so. It has now succeeded in bringing about this flexibility, because these negotiations then went in a different direction. We've tried, and the parents' life-reality is really another. The model at that time was too rigid, it has offered too little room for manoeuvre, it has not really put freedom of choice in view; that is no question. And there have been difficult negotiations, but successful negotiations in that the over 50 opinions, various opinions, have succeeded in producing a draft. On a number of points, I must tell you, Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, that you have also been able to get your approval, because you were very much in favour of your draft. Women's minister Bures has been negotiating with you for a long time – no one has disputed at all; I do not want to leave that in the room now. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's what you're doing now!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: We heard something else!]] Sometimes negotiations are difficult, long, but now we have done something together. We can be proud of this – for the moment, and of course we want more for the future. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Parents can now choose – there are three models, and that's important. Anyone who wants it to stay the way it is can do so in the future, but there are two more options. We wish that we would also bring more fathers into Karenz, and that we should take this role picture – and I would like you to argue in this direction, too, that it is important that men also go in Karenz, who want it – to take men when they go into Karenz, change positively, because child rearing is both about: mothers and fathers. After all, men were at the “make ” of the children. [[Intrusion of the Abg. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] I come to the conclusion, my dear Mrs Rauch-Kallat: We are living in a modern society, in a future-oriented society, and the population is also expecting a modern and future-oriented policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8329	Mrs Haubner's next speech. Also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8379	Mr President. Dear ministers! Mr. Federal Minister! My previous speaker has once again given a good example of how “good” the climate in this coalition is – it always inspires me. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as co-founder of the childcare allowance and as one who took the new path for the families in Austria seven years ago, that is: Freedom of choice for families, the possibility of caring for children also at home, caring for and caring for old, disabled people at home, having introduced four years of pension periods for children for the first time in the field of retirement periods, introduced for the first time for 30 months child care allowance, health insurance and the “Reparation New” I must say: What is now available here is not worth our approval! That can't be the big improvement you're looking at. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen, especially Mrs Kuntzl: I know that we in the Committee are also always talking about the different perceptions you have in the evaluation. But we have the same paper, and I would like to say here again that the childcare allowance has been introduced for two essential reasons: In order to increase the free choice of parents so that they are not forced, as in the old karenz money, if they want to stay at home, but that they have the opportunity, if they want to be active as well. That was one thing, and that was achieved. The second reason was that child care money is a means of combating poverty. And that's exactly what it has become! The additional funds support families with low incomes in particular, and that is also in this evaluation. In this evaluation it is quite clear that the only weak point is the limit of merit. That is why I really ask the former coalition partner, ÖVP, who has known exactly what difficulties the limit of merit is, why he has agreed. We said at the time at the first government negotiations: We do not want this limit of merit, and it was a compromise to say after four years, after five years again, that we are making an extended commitment limit, which is not one. That is why I say, as my previous speakers have already pointed out, that there has not been an opportunity here, and there has been an opportunity. The second chance, which was rejected from my point of view, has been denied by this non-social repayment of the transfer of childcare allowance. You, Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, said that it was especially this grant that affected families in particular here. In times like this, to demand back where families have to cope with blatant pressures, where families are permanently burdened to do so to families who live at the poverty line, I must say: Here you could have done something! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Is the ÖVP to blame?]] Every government can do something here, and I am also in favour of the rule of law, I am also in favour of complying with the laws, but the last government has never required the grant of the karenz money introduced by the then great coalition in the nineties! At the time, we did not ask back this grant to the karenz money! We did a so-called amnesty at the time, and I would have expected now, Mrs Federal Minister, that you would have done so in the Council of Ministers. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what is available here will of course not receive our approval, because you are setting out the wrong family policy signals. We are missing a tax relief, a tax relief for the families now! That would be an hour's commandment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8434	Mrs Bures spoke from the government bank. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8455	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mrs Haubner, you are taking a positive stand because otherwise I am not used to so much self-criticism by the BZÖ. But it shows that this child age needs a reform, and I am very glad that we will be presenting it together today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: They were against child care! They adorn themselves with foreign feathers!]] I've done one thing: I want young people and, above all, young women not to have to decide in the future whether they have a child or prefer to stay in the job. I believe that, if the framework conditions are also true, it is possible that it is not either the focus or the focus, but that it is both possible and possible to agree on a child and a profession. I am pleased, even though these were hard negotiations – without a doubt – that we will take a significant step today to improve the compatibility of work and family life. We will flexibilise an old, rigid model, as the evaluation has rightly shown, and thus make a large piece of women's, family and thus child-friendly. We are changing a rigid system of the past, which has actually been burdened by women in many areas. I am therefore glad that today in the House – hopefully by a large majority – we can decide on the flexibilization, where the state does not specify how long one should stay at home, but where the families themselves decide which variant is the best for them. I would also like to inform you that there is a very up-to-date study on the compatibility and wishes of women. This study clearly shows that the profession is important and of course important for women. Just as men have been for many decades, there is now a real change: Women are no longer considered to be meritors, women feel that they are self-employed women, who also provide a basis for independent life through their work. This is what women want, and this shows all the current studies. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I see this wish of women as an assignment to us, as an assignment to the new Federal Government. We have to make life possible with work and children, and that is why I have been hard on this childcare allowance and on flexibilization. Since this has fallen into the discussion today: Yes, that was hard and tough negotiations! It was not easy, as much persuasion had to be done even with the coalition partner. But in the end, after hard negotiations, the result counts, and I am pleased about what is present in the House today. It is a really good result, especially for women. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We will ensure that, as in the past, the state does not state how long a baby break should take, but that families can choose freely and decide for themselves. The child care allowance will enable three variants in the future, and the shorter the child benefit will be, the higher the money will be. The two variants, the new ones we create, also have the advantage that they are in line with labour law. This means that not, as in the past, only every second woman found a job after the baby break, but with the two other variants, there is a job protection under labour law and women have the right to return to their workplace, and not, as in the old age of children, only every second woman has made the return. And those who managed – this shows the evaluation – have usually returned to the profession under worse conditions. They had fewer career opportunities, they had a lower income, and they had worse working conditions than before they went to the baby break. This must belong to the past, and with the flexibilization it will be. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As a women's minister, it is important to me that the education of children is seen as a common task, that this is not just a task of mothers, and I think that the raising of a child is something quite unique that men should also experience. That is why I am pleased that with this higher child benefit, we can also offer the fathers an honest offer to devote ourselves to the care of their children, and I invite all fathers to do so. It is a wonderful experience to be able to participate in the first months of the child's life, to see the development of the child, and with the higher child money we offer a first chance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, I do not want to make any sense that a wormhead drop remains that we have not implemented a reduction in working time instead of the amount of earnings. [[Abg. Steibl: Then you can leave it that way! That's a contradiction!]] It would have been important to me that the parents take time for the children instead of looking at what they deserve in time; I do not think that is important. They shall take time for their children, and there shall be money for them. The last word has not yet been spoken. That's right now with the courts. I wanted to save parents, the social partners also supported this proposal. [[Abg. Steibl: Only because the ÖGB and the workers' chamber want that! They're supposed to take care of other things!]] It is true that I have not put up with 100 per cent, but I think that in a democracy, majority voting is to be taken note of. As I said, the last word on this question has not yet been spoken. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You only need to talk to the lady next to you on the government bank! No problem! Make it up to you once! Dispute on the government bank!]] However, we have to note that politics is something like the art of the feasible and that it is precisely compromises that need to be made. If something is positive for the families, it will always receive my consent, and the flexible child money belongs to it. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Then whisper to Mrs. Kdolsky a little bit in the ear! Maybe she understands!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we don't stand half way, that's important to me. The Federal Minister has said that we can only live up to the flexible child allowance if there are enough kindergartens in Austria. Therefore, I am pleased that the next step has already begun, that we are launching a kindergarten offensive in Austria, that we will offer a colourful and wide range of additional care facilities to the Austrian families. [[Abg. Strache: With the overpriced costs as in Vienna, where the citizens are tossed down!]] I am glad that we are taking this first step today and in Bälden the second, it is a good offer for the women in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8593	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8614	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank and here in the House! The debacle around the limit of merit of the last months and the many shears parents have had with it proves one thing: In reality, this model has been bureaucratically wrong – in the folk mouth: a murkish. And it doesn't get any better if you go on on a murk. I'm sorry, that's what you're doing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If there is a great allegation, these are not small reforms anyway, but big throws, I wonder what a small reform may look like for you. Mrs Bures, who you have now somehow positioned as the second family minister of this government: That's good if you're so involved, but in the wrong job, because I'm actually expecting the Minister of Women to be involved in women and work for them. If you say that you did not spend 100 percent, if I also listened to Mr Heinisch-Hosek's speech before you, then I would say that between what she has represented here, of which I would support many things immediately – yes, we want an income-dependent karenz money – between "not enforced to 100 percent" and "not enforced at all", there would be a range between them. If hard, tough negotiations do not come out more than what is now available here, then I can only say: Either it wasn't important enough for you, or you don't control the job. I'm really sorry. I would have expected to be in the interest of women, and I know that there are many women who would have expected this: If the SPÖ goes to the government when there is a women's minister, then politics will look different than under black and blue orange, but she does not. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs Kuntzl was able to add up in a wonderful way what was missing. The list of what you have enforced is relatively short. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, it's not true!]] What is flexible if I still have to decide between a situation where I cannot fully follow the job, and these different models of spending time with a reduced income, if there are still many families that cannot afford to stay at home, and both are not actually equal? Their so-called flexibility is still so rigid that, in the first application, you have to decide on the child care allowance for the duration of the time, which model you take from the three – and woe it changes in between anything in terms of living conditions, I have decided for the long variant, because I think there will be no job, and then one comes up. I can't even change again. So you could have been a little more flexible in your flexibilization. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I don't have much to do with the ÖVP now. At that time, he decided to pay the child's money, with a female and family picture behind it, which is relatively clear: It is good that women mainly care for the children for a few years, and when they are lucky and can return to the labour market, good for them, but not the subject of ÖVP interests. That the BZÖ has passed the law that now criticizes it – okay, is the BZÖ. But that the SPÖ doesn't even impose basic concerns in the approach, I really think it's a sign of poverty. Why is it so difficult to confess color in a social policy concern and to say that we insist that there is an income-dependent pension fund so that it is actually possible to share work and family work together so that women and men can experience family as well as family income and career opportunities? Mrs Minister, it is not enough to make some improvements. That would be enough for a family minister. If you say you're happy if something gets better for the families, then it's good, but I expect you, as a woman's minister, to make clear successes for women, for example, and to discuss a tax relief for women.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8675	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Speaking time: also 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8696	Mr President. High house! Deputies of the opposition! It's nice that your emotions are so high on the subject of children. Children need love, respect and reliable financial security – and you certainly don't do that with your suggestions! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If we are already on the facts: I would like to expressly reject an untrue claim by the colleague Heinisch-Hosek on behalf of Maria Rauch-Kallat: The daughter of Mrs Rauch-Kallat does not have a baby girl, but rather takes care of her two children themselves and also receives child care money like 150,000 other mothers in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's it! Put wrong claims in the room!]] With the SPÖ, the People's Party has developed a model that makes sense for taxpayers' money and brings the greatest possible benefit to all of us, namely: Opportunities for children, opportunities for mothers, for fathers and for society. – Why is that so important? The clock of social change ticks. Fortunately, we all live longer and longer, but fewer and fewer babies are born. That's the dilemma. It is not the task of politics – I give many of you the right to tell people how to live whether to put children into the world or not. This is a very personal decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, it is very much the task of policy to change the framework conditions in such a way that a life with children becomes easier than before. And there's the new childcare allowance. How does that work? – The magic word – you have all heard it many times today – is flexibility. You can choose a longer variant as before or you can choose one of the two shorter variants. For example: 800 € of one partner for 15 months, three months of the other partner 800 €. Advantage: Those who get out of the profession more quickly and above all more securely are back in the profession. Advantage two: 800 €, this could also attract many better-earning men to engage in childcare. Why is that important? – More and more young women only want to say to the child if the partner is also involved. The “right fathers”, from the point of view of society the right fathers, are not just the Sunday fathers anymore, but these are those who are actively engaged in childcare, and we are taking an important step today. In reaching our goal of better agreeing on child and profession, we have recently only progressed at the pace of snails. But now we want to give this snail wings to the ÖVP, with a lot of measures: with a fairer taxation of families, with more childcare facilities, with more child-friendly establishments – and today with this important step in child care money. If many say the coalition is fighting anyway: Somehow that's true, but there's also the counter evidence that we're working a lot more. Childcare is an impressive proof of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8770	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. Also 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8791	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister, you are, so to speak, the new members of the ANTIFA, the antifamily movement. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you look at this new package here, you really wonder why you're spreading ash on your head. I quote Mrs Kdolsky, who said that the success model child care money will be further expanded. – Success model Childcare money yes, but why do you want to destroy it? Why are you trying to break down a success model now? Why do you try to ignore the intention behind this child care allowance now, and say: Now we do everything better, now the duration is shorter, the women are supposed to return to the profession immediately after 15 months!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: If they want! If they want!]] I know, Madam Minister, that your aim has been to increase child care for the zero to three years; You want the Barcelona model. That's an economic model, but I told you once, you're a family minister! We don't want that! The intention of this childcare allowance was at the time to give freedom of choice. And now you've taken the freedom of choice! Freedom of choice is taken with a commitment limit, which is executed to the strictest extent. That is exactly the mistake, and that is why this limit of merit must finally fall in order to be able to grant freedom of choice as well! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: You have decided!]] This is actually the bleeding out of the middle class. Women with better qualifications do not have a chance to return to the profession in some way, even in some way, because then the child's money is gone immediately. And that's exactly what you're doing! [[Abg. Binder-Maier: You have decided!]] This is the attack on the middle class, on the better-earning women; they obviously want you to get out of the job. That's not our way! We want this commitment limit to fall, and all women should have the opportunity if they want to go into the profession. On the other hand, you make a flexibilization: Women can go back to work earlier – but what will they do with their children after 15 months? I don't have any... [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] The kindergarten offensive – nice and good. They know from studies that women would like to have mother-in-laws for their young children. The mother-in-laws are now being greatly promoted in training, but they are only a small group again. They should ensure that mothers can also afford themselves. That can only be one goal. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In summary, one has to say that the entire family policy of this government is a failure to consider, and the former family party ÖVP has now become an anti-family party. Unfortunately, this is a very sad development of God: On the one hand, mothers are left standing in the rain, mothers have no money, mothers have to pay back, and on the other hand, we often have the problem that when families divorce when one of the two spouses has to pay, this one sleeps below the poverty line, which is sleeping under the minimum of existence. [[Abg. Binder-Maier: You have introduced this!]] That's just as a problem. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Only that can make sense, only in this way can we strengthen our families, and only in this way can we get our own children back and not have to import children from abroad. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and Greens.]] Please make sure that our Austrian families can afford to have more children again!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e8938	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9008	The next speaker was Mr Riepl. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9029	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Ministers! To my previous speaker, Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, perhaps just one comment: It would be nice if you would choose in tone and in the name towards members of the Federal Government a way that allows us to take you seriously. Unfortunately, that was not the case with your speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the first year of the new government brings a further improvement, this time for the families in our country, and this comes with 1. January 2008 in force. If Mrs Bures has said that what is available today is a good offer for women in Austria, it is right if the Minister for Women says so. As a man, I say that it is also a good offer for men in this area, because I think it will succeed to convince some men that it is better to also participate in childcare. [[Demonstratel accompaniment of the abg. May. Aubauer]] With the new options for child care, it will be mothers and fathers, I said it would be easier to reconcile family and work better. – A little thanks to the ÖVP on this occasion: You got closer to our ideas, somehow you got together. I think that this is a good sign of the future and of the further steps that are still necessary. Anyway, this is the step in the right direction, but – it has already been said – we are far from the goal. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also important to note that we are talking about a total amount of € 920 million in this childcare allowance. At this point, it is also allowed to point out that it would of course be nice if we had more financial resources at our disposal, but the family compensation fund, which was empty by the previous government, was completely empty, does not allow any further possibilities at present. Single parents in particular need flexible choices, and I believe that the points of child care and family-friendly working hours should play a role in this. Ladies and gentlemen, the concepts of poverty and poverty have been mentioned several times in the discussion. This has increased in particular over the past seven years, i.e. in the time of the last governments. Today, if you believe the Caritas, we have a million people in Austria who are vulnerable to poverty. I think Mrs Aubauer is also my witness in this regard. I do not know if you can remember, ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago you sent me a letter from an octakring woman, a single teacher. Enter with two children, a little baby and a young man who is already in the teaching. This woman turned to you and asked you to help. You forwarded this to me with the request: You're an Ottakring MP, take care of it! I can tell you today that I have had a long conversation with her, and I think I was able to help her with a provision of information and with tips on how to make one application or another better, so that she doesn't only have to deal with the child care allowance and the apprentice compensation of her great son, but has a little more. I would like to thank you for forwarding this to me. S & D MEPs sometimes bring something together – and together we may bring together more! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Further calls to the BZÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to be a social-democratic representative for people in our society, and I believe that in this context and with this decision-making – and with this in my conclusion – we are changing the rigid, conservative childcare system-old, which connects the head and the cane, today into a modern, flexible childcare system-new from Kdolsky and Bures. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]] And that's why I think that's a good day for Austrian families.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9127	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9148	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Riepl, a good day for Austria, was the day when the childcare allowance was introduced in Austria – and the BZÖ was significantly responsible for it. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Steibl: You would like that!]] We have needed two years, from 2000 to 2002 to convince the coalition partner ÖVP that the childcare allowance is to be introduced. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] It was already in force in Carinthia before – but without any limit of merit! Our intention was, in fact, always – what you all criticize today – to remove the limit of merit. However, the ÖVP has sought to maintain it at the time, and so we still have it today. It's too rigid for me too. The problem of the pay-as-you-go is actually the only criticism point in the whole, because it limits the freedom of choice and hinders people from using the childcare allowance. People who are busy by the way have been afraid to get beyond the limit of merit, and have not even made the request for child care money. Others have come beyond the limit of merit and are now faced with a recovery that has never happened before in the award of the karenz money. With us, you hang it on a different hook, so to speak. It's not supposed to be like that. We are for an improvement in the childcare allowance, not a question, but what you are doing now, ladies and gentlemen, and what you are so delighted, where you can now reduce the reference period from 36 months to 24 months or to 18 months, has something to do with a reduction of the childcare allowance, because it is simply less. If you did that at the same height, I'd say: Okay, why not? One goes shorter in Karenz and gets the same money in a shorter time. – It would be all right. The childcare allowance was referred to by the SPÖ and the Greens as Murks. Ladies and gentlemen, do you want to go back to the karenz money, which was a pure insurance benefit? You don't want to. Well, where's the Murks? It is a family benefit, and a family benefit includes today also students, self-employed and farmers benefit from the childcare allowance. [[OBJECTIVES]] That was not possible in the past. And that's the big difference! Freedom of choice is to be granted, the limit of merit should be abolished, because red tape, which is the result, is superfluous. We don't want that from BZÖ. For the introduction of working time borders, Mrs Bures, I must tell you: You can apply this to persons who are self-employed, but to others, such as self-employed, not. This would in turn create a two-class society. We do not want that in this form! As regards the fact that men are increasingly involved in childcare, it is to be said: In order to make this possible, it is essential to remove the limit of merit, otherwise that will not be possible in the future. In this context, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, normally you would need this amendment...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9252	The final sentence, Mr Colleague! We're in a delay.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9273	I come to the conclusion: The abolition or abolition of the earnable limit would be another milestone in the allowance for child care.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9300	The amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek is properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9403	I set the last round here with one minute per speaker each. Mr Oellinger, you are the first to speak.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9424	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In the debate on child care, I can still remember the statement of the head of state Jörg Haider, who said: We introduce the childcare allowance because we can buy women out of the labour market! Then there is the labour market only more for men, and the women stay at home! [[Abg. Scheibner: Where did he say that?]] With this problem and with this objective – with this false objective! – the babysitting money has been living since then! All attempts to change something that can also make life for women sick of this contradiction. The Push, too, with the commitment limit to which ÖVP and BZÖ/FPÖ were responsible at the time, is a result of this fundamental problem that you did not solve, ladies and gentlemen, dear. [[Abg. Scheibner: We want to get rid of this!]] Family policy should be made viable. Permanent relations should be made possible. That would be something we could agree on right away! But then the Minister of the Interior must not postpone children.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9487	The next speaker is Mr Principal. Same procedure. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9508	Mr President. Dear ministers! Ladies and gentlemen! This innovation will achieve decisive improvements in the freedom of choice and better compatibility of family and family work. The threefolding at the limit of merit, namely at the grant, is an essential part of this innovation. Then: So far, there have been most problems with the recoverys. A word on the current repayment claims: First of all, we must comply with laws which we have agreed here together in the House. Secondly, I find it embarrassing to have women's minister Bures issue a guide on her homepage calling on those affected to challenge the refund notice. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Mrs Bures, you have agreed to this law here in the house. Remove this guide on your homepage! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Generally speaking, it can be said that the revision of the Childcare Money Act clearly bears the manuscript of the ÖVP. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] Family Minister Kdolsky has been successful in negotiating and persecuting here. It is a shame that these improvements are not seen by the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9570	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9591	High house! I am trying so much incense, which has been flooded since early today, to give the clear look a little brightening. First: The fact that you may have mitigated one aspect of the illegality of the Constitution from the previous law does not prevent it from continuing to be unconstitutional. It is therefore very correct if everyone is asked to bring this law to the Constitutional Court for a review. All notifications are to be disputed! Secondly, One has not been talked about today, namely children's rights. Children have the right to both parents. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And there is an element in the game that has not yet been discussed, but it is absolutely essential to talk about it: that there are, on average, three years to be visited. That's unacceptable! We will be active in this area in a parliamentary way. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] It is necessary to introduce a time limit for the completion of proceedings before the Court of First Instance for a period of six months. This is the first step – for what you all scatter here in incense.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9633	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9655	My previous speaker just caught the wrong theme – that sounded like a threat! – This is about child money, the flexibility of child money, and this is a huge success for the SPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: That's quite embarrassing what you're saying!]] I started to become politically active at the federal level in 2000. Even then we warned of the traps. Today we can get rid of these traps again, and we are now adopting a good law. I'm very pleased about it and don't like saying: It is also a success of the ÖVP – that is, of you – because it has leaped over its shadow, because at least when it was still Federal Chancellor, Schüssel said in the negotiations: [[Demonstratetive applause with the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Grill: I'm so, great!]] [[further calls to the ÖVP]] We don't need to change the money because we want the women to be at home! We don't want that! Women should be able to vote. Now they can do that. I look forward to a broad agreement. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9730	The next point is Mr Scheibner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9751	Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad that now the child money is a success for everyone. At the time when we, the BZÖ, made this proposal for the first time, ÖVP was still very opposed, but above all SPÖ and the Greens. Thank you very much for the late praise! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is important and necessary to secure a basis of living for families, even in the future, because young families, children are our future, the future of every generation. We were always against the limit of trust, but at the time with a share of 10 percent we were unable to achieve 100 percent in the government. At least the limit of trust has been increased. The SPÖ now has more than three times as many Members as we had at the time, but only half as much success, because it does not eliminate, nor does it increase, but de facto reduces by 500 € because the bandwidths are abolished. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a success experience! This limit of trust is unjust, it is abolished. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: Not so much fight, not as much as do themselves, as we have experienced today, but as much work as we did in the government at that time.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9797	Ladies and gentlemen! We are now continuing with voluntary time limits in the debate. Next, Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). He wishes a speaking time of 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9822	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! The family is more than a private matter, although we all confess that the state should not interfere in the affairs of the family. Nevertheless, the state cannot be financed without a family, it cannot survive. Why? - We have a pension system after the payment procedure. That means we need children to be able to finance this pension system. They all know that in the field of care and care, the families perform unthinkable services and that this care system in Austria would hardly be able to survive without families. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Consequently, the family is an economic community. That is why we propose to implement the family division in Austria. But the family is also a social community, and without this social community, the social state would not be eligible for funding. Mrs. Federal Minister, you have previously meant that single parents are treated equally under this scheme, as are any other parent, because every parent can use child care allowance for a maximum of 30 months. But now there is – and this is probably a fact – in most cases, where a single parent is raised alone, so he is called a single parent, not a second partner who would be willing to do educational and care work. This is why these single parents are not being treated fairly, for Single parents can spend a maximum of 30 months with the child. If there are a couple who share this task, you can spend 36 months of that time with the child. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is really unfair! Ladies and gentlemen, we must free the parents from the pressure that both have to go to work. [[Abg. Steibl: There is no compulsion!]] You should decide for yourself how to regulate this in the family, and you need the same pay for the same work. In most cases, the man deserves more than the woman, and that's why the woman stays at home. Ladies and gentlemen, in pension law we must also start! Whoever receives a child today and takes care of child rearing, on average, loses about €70 in pension. It is therefore necessary that we have this value that children also have for our pension system – 200 000 € will have paid a contributor in his life for the pension system –... [[Abg. Steibl: But we did it, 1,350 €...!]] Don't be so scared! I'm on your side, I'm just trying to support your way. [[Abg. Steibbl: Wonderful!]] Why Make You don't split the family? Do it! [[Abg. Steibl: We have it in the program anyway!]] Do it! You are an announcement giant and a censure of implementation, Mrs Colleague. What can we do in pension law? – We need to double the value of child rearing times. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Next point: Family benefits. – Family benefits lose value year after year without being adjusted accordingly. If you are entitled to child care allowance today, you will lose €794 per year with family allowance and child care allowance due to inflation-related losses. It is therefore necessary to carry out a valorization. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day something very important: It is not only about money, it is also about how to deal with children and how to deal with the family! Therefore, it is especially abominable to go here in Vienna and take an excursion to the abortion clinic with a fourth class primary school so that the children learn how important the prevention is. Well, that's disgusting! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a very, very bad policy: that you drag fourth-class primary students into the abortion clinic, so that they see how terrible children are and that you have to avoid it. You know what? – Go with the primary students elsewhere, for example to the White Court Rehabilitation Centre, where people who have lost a leg who are completely burned, which are seriously injured, strive to achieve a decent life again with daily hard work. Life is worth protecting. Sacrifice! The students should not be dragged to the abortion clinic, where they will see: Well, you have to get rid of the children somehow as soon as possible! Make an excursion with the students to the birth clinic, where thousands of mothers receive their child year after year and are happy with the child! That would be the right way – and not the way to the abortion clinic!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e9969	The two by Mr Ing. Court of Justice's motions for resolutions – first of all concerning fair consideration of child rearing periods and second concerning the adjustment of the inflation of Austrian family benefits – are sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10139	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit – please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10161	Mr President. There are also students who take trips to Parliament, and my colleague Ridi Steibl asked me to welcome the Matura class from Voitsberg. All of them good for the upcoming matura work! I hope that, despite these discussions, you will be able to gain a good impression from the House. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the most important thing in family policy is to make sustainable decisions. It is true that we have discussed very much about it and have considered the possibilities of improving and developing childcare money. If my colleague Fichtenbauer said earlier: Children have a right to both parents!, then I would like to say: That is why we have also put forward this measure and discussed how we can offer young families a more flexible way of doing so. I believe that the three options that exist now are to decide for themselves on the questions: How long do I want to obtain child care money, how high should it be, or do I want to care for my child from the outset?, that is something that is the most important thing for families at all. As mentioned earlier, it is often not about putting financial components in the foreground, but above all about giving children time, and they should be given both by the mother and by the father. I believe that even though Mrs Bures said on the one hand that she could not prevail, and Mr Stadlbauer on the other hand said that this innovation is a huge success, one can agree to say that this is a huge step forward for families. Above all, I would like to thank Mrs Kdolsky, who, with all his strength and great commitment, has worked to bring this regulation to the stage as quickly as possible. That is also something young people expect from politics: concrete actions and not empty words!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10209	Next speaker: Mr Lutz Weinzinger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10234	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. Ladies, you can give me the applause, but I'm afraid it won't be with me either. It's interesting what we're experiencing here today: One throws something before the other and praises one's own people; the other throws something before one another and praises one's own people, and the third's slander over all. [[Call: These are you.]] But what we should put on the main interest is almost lost. Of course we want children, of course we have children because a state only works when children are born in it! Only in the meantime have we established an economic and social system in which this becomes almost impossible if the state does not intervene, in which it is almost impossible for a mother, the natural educational institution that has created nature for us, to afford children. [[Abg. Steibl: But there should be a father too!]] I know that nature makes everything smartest because it has tried millenniums, millions of millions of years around and then presented the result, and the result is now that we live as we do: as a man and woman, as a woman and man, both God is guided by nature the need for them to come together for the purpose of child production, although we try to prevent that. – That’s good! as you used to say in other circles when it’s not about making children. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore invited – we, the legislator and the government that we are mandated to do – to develop something that allows childbearing, child rearing; and I say deliberately: Children – not as a 42-year-old a child, but as a 25-year-old, 30-year-old, 35-year-old two, three or four children! – We must come there, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But this is a little too far! That is embarrassing to pretend women, at the age of 25 or 42...! That's embarrassing!]] It is our duty to this state structure – it is our duty! – that we give the appropriate facilities, and these are the families, support and give women, through this child education allowance, through this child support, the opportunity to actually acquire a family. Faith You're telling me: There are many women – let's start from normal conditions – there are a lot of women who are very happy to stay at home to have several children and to be able to care for several children well and properly. – We should go there, and that should be the basis of our discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10318	The next speaker was Mr Dr. One. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10339	Mr President. Dear ladies Federal Ministers! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As this is, so to speak, my last speech here in the plenary session of the National Council before I leave the House, let me first make a comment on the subject on which we are discussing. I think that one of the main challenges we face here in the House and I too have been able to face up to now is to find compromises that can be represented and which can also be explained. In the course of this debate, for example, I had some difficulties in the debate on the fight for benefits, because we already have to ask ourselves what the money for children was actually created for. And if the purpose of child benefit is to create the financial conditions for parents, men and women to be able to care for their children for a time, the question is, in fact, the urgent concern to open up their work at the same time. [[Abg. Mandak: Freedom of choice!]] That's something that's hard to understand unless you say right now, you just want everyone to get more money. That's a beautiful political motto, I'm just wondering if you can gain credibility with it. Let me make a second comment: I also believe that it is a huge step that has finally taken place a certain flexibility of child money, but, my dear friends Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, which has prevented you from agreeing to a complete flexibilization, I do not think you can explain to anyone. [[Abg. Steibl: taxpayers! Fees!]] Why we must now have three models, but we cannot have a continuous flexibility that really allows parents to decide how they would like it to be, is very difficult to explain. – I'm sorry, I didn't understand! But I'm leaving the National Council now; maybe you'll explain it to me when I've returned to civil status. Let me say one last thing: I have been very happy and very grateful for having had the opportunity to participate for 13 years in making policies for the people of this country, especially for those who depend on politics. This is one of the greatest challenges in this country! I am grateful for this, and I would also like to say this at the end of my political career. – I think it’s very important that this remains in our consciousness. It is also very important that, as far as possible, we are able to make this clear to the citizens, our electorate. One thing is already a bit strange, that is now, at the end, noted: Before I became a politician, I was a manager in a large company, and I decided to accept an offer from the then Federal Chancellor and enter the government. At that time, at my first appearances on the street, I was told very quickly by the electorate, which many of them think are from us, namely that we are withdrawn coffins that are somewhere far away from their reality – and that from one day to the other. I was, as it were, a well-respected citizen until day X, and from day Y – I don't want to say what. Now I return to the private sector, become managers again, and get a number of emails again, but now I only appear as what those who called me at the beginning when I became politicians have already believed. I think we should also promote that it must be possible to work a time of life for the state, for the community, for the citizens, without suddenly being condemned, if one does so, or even without being condemned for it when one no longer does. It's worth doing something for. – Thank you and all the best!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10392	I would like to speak to the honourable Member. Thank you very much also on behalf of the Bureau of the National Council for his work in the House, which was always carried out by a very high level of expertise. For this good cooperation, including with all the other parties in the House, thank you very much, and you very much for your next professional step and for the future. [[General condolences.]] The next speaker is Mrs Mandak; it is her second speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10423	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to thank you, on behalf of the Green Group, for your further work. We are very sorry that you, in particular, are leaving Parliament, your work will always be in our best memory. Thank you! [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] I would like to make another amendment. We have previously criticised the fact that the limit of merit has not been abolished, and have spoken of the fact that a reduction in working time, which can be used optionally, would be an opportunity to guarantee this freedom of choice between the profession and the family much better than it is now. Interestingly, there has also been a SPÖ proposal, which unfortunately was not on the agenda in the Family Committee and was therefore not voted on. We are always working towards constructive cooperation and we want to give you the opportunity, above all, of accepting your own request from the SPÖ. I submit the following request to the present Government template: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this request. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10496	The amendment tabled by Mrs Mandak is properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10557	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10579	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I propose an amendment which introduces the simplification of the administration of the childcare allowance. Short to the current situation: Any person and any person involved in child care allowance may apply for the grant and also obtain it without having to provide an income certificate in advance; the control of the amount of child care allowance shall only be carried out annually by the health insurance fund each year. In the absence of exceeding the limit of award, a valid credit has been created and the financial offices are obliged to bring this credit into existence within 15 years. If the amount of the payment is exceeded, the requirement of entitlement is not met, and the health insurance funds must take care of the recovery themselves. – This competence of two authorities creates difficulties in the consultation and administration, and the following request is intended to facilitate this. [[Quoted print version removed]] This amendment establishes a timeframe for the development of a system change and thus prepares the way for a citizen-friendly, administrative economic administration of the grant for child care.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10643	The amendment tabled by Mrs Hellerer, Mrs Heller, Mrs Riepl, colleagues, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. I announce that, as a result of these short-term amendments, a vote cannot be sufficiently prepared in the short-term and we will therefore postpone the vote. The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10673	Mr President. Appreciate women ministers! The discussion held so far clearly shows that the BZÖ and the liberals want women to stay at home longer so that they can live the rest of their lives in dependence or in circumstances also in poverty. [[Interim calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] - We don't want that. By the way, it is not ensured that the fathers can also take care of their children with the removal of the earner's limit. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... can!]] Fortunately, according to the latest IFES study, more and more women see their professional activity as a prerequisite for an independent and independent life. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Women must be supported in their desire to be active! Here we are all required. The current legislative amendment will help to keep occupational interruptions shorter and thus facilitate re-entry. ==References====External links== ==References====External links==* Official website Born January, the possibility of short-term benefits is to be given. – This is very encouraging. Ladies and gentlemen! These measures are a first important step towards a future in which parents could have easier access to better balance between family and work, but only if appropriate support is available on the ground. It remains to be hoped that the Federal Government's funding for childcare facilities and day-care mothers will also be sufficient for the communities, so that there is an actual option in rural areas as well. Finally, I would like to thank you, Mrs Kdolsky, and in particular you, Mrs Doris Bures, for the joint step. I hope for more! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10721	The next speaker is Mr Pack. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10742	Mr President. My esteemed women's ministers on the government bank! High house! The flexibility of the child care allowance in the amount and period of reference, the introduction of the scheme in the event of a breach of the obligation to pay: I believe that these points, which we have clarified today, must be welcomed, they are necessary and correct, and especially for young parents, these changes are a great improvement. But also, and this has already been mentioned by one of my previous speakers, the announced expansion of the care offer for those under the age of three is very important, especially for young parents. I believe that, as a headline on all initiatives concerning childcare and other areas, it is not a matter of whether to push anyone into a dependency or independence, but rather to say that we need to encourage young people to become a child again, and not to make threats in any way. I think we went in a very good direction with this template, which looks very good. We can also support this as a boy here, because it is very important for the boys in Austria, for the young families, for mothers and fathers that we have made these changes in the childcare allowance. At the end of the debate, I would like to make three points. First, in the direction of the BZÖ: In fact, this did not exist in the introduction of the childcare allowance – not that there is a false impression. If it were after the SPÖ, we would still talk about the care allowance and not about the childcare allowance. And: One thing has become clear again today: The ÖVP is and remains the only family party in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10796	Mr Praßl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10818	Mr President. Estimated women Federal ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. With this “Childcare law new” we bring more freedom of choice for the parents, and that is also good. Both government parties discussed in depth the changes that exist here, such as increasing the freedom of choice for parents, in order to make family and work more compatible, flexibility, increase in the limits of award, the creation of a grinding-up system and a uniform system of competence for the procedure and health insurance. – I also believe that there will be very positive effects here. The increase in child care fees for shorter periods of reference as well as the increase in the limits of earnings have a positive impact on Austria's location. I also believe that this new law is a visible sign that Austria will become a child-friendly and family-friendly country in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10854	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. Ladies and gentlemen, as announced: Since there are large amendments or additional amendments and requests for separate votes and a short interruption of the sitting to prepare the vote, I shall put the vote to the vote until after the vote on 9. Agenda item. [[13:30:45]] 8. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (214 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Labour Constitution Act, the Federal Act on the Post Employment Constitution and the Labour and Social Court Law (243 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10890	At the same time, we continue to complete the agenda and reach the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Kickl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10918	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! – The government bank is now lost! The government succeeds again and again, not only the Austrian population, but also us to be quite surprised; I must tell you, in the field of social and labour market policy, it is unfortunately not a positive surprise that we receive in addition from you. I am therefore saying this in this clarity, because the current developments show where the journey is going. It was not until these days that the last SPÖ total crasher, when the Minister of Social Affairs, who is becoming more and more a Swiss between a Minister of Promise and a Minister of Shame, finally broke the promise of a ban on hackers' regime ice-cold and, as a result, laid down once again a belly spot belonging to the category of the very first order. It is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, that the SPÖ has obviously made it their social policy credo, that one adds and calculates the subordination of which one itself is constantly saying that he has an underdeveloped social feeling – that is what you are over there. [[towards ÖVP]] For us liberals, I must say, this direction comes from the wrong direction. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In the past, it has been said by the Social Democracy side – if I may stay with this pension example – when it came to working time: working less, but earning a lot for it. – That was the credo of a social democracy from long ago. Today, it is said to look at the example of pensions: long working time, 40 years, 45 years, and nevertheless discounts. – For this, you can afford the luxury of a pensioner who is obviously already removed with his pension so much that he believes that a kilo of bread costs between € 10 and € 13. This too is a moral picture of social democracy, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Grill: The Blecha!]] I am therefore telling you this in the context of the current discussion, because all of this is mosaics of a missing labour market and social policy – there once a smaller one, there once a larger one, but overall it gives a picture of the regret, if you only look at things as they actually are. In this image of regret, of course, individual points in the area of the amendment of the Constitutional Labour Act are also appropriate, namely, there, ladies and gentlemen, where it is a matter of ensuring a consistent, continuous and thus effective representation of workers' interests as a result of the merger of capital companies. Ladies and gentlemen, it has not been clarified just as the representation of workers in the establishments, where there is no works council. Now we are all more or less in this House – one because they are happy to see the other, because they are annoyed – that wherever the EU, where the European Union stands, is looking for the social component with the magnifying glass. You won't find that in the headings, but you have to try the footnote device to distill anything social. Even if we can blame the EU for a lot, ladies and gentlemen, one cannot be accused of perceiving the spirit of social responsibility. I would say once that the EU has about as much to do with social conscience as the ÖVP perspective group has with the preservation of Austrian neutrality. Then we got it to the point, then we know how it is ordered. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Then it is, ladies and gentlemen, that this one comes up with a famous social policy swallow, which I would like to mention, which does not make a summer yet, but at least a swallow in the form of this merger directive, which tells us that we are finally defining rules for participation in these cross-border societies for workers. What to do You with this swallow? – They let them fly instead of taking them, and also leave this opportunity to finally achieve a guarantee in an area for workers. I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, this is a special piece of art. If you are still going to come and explain to the workers that they are free at any time to choose a works council themselves, and so to speak, to explain this problem as it is done from the world, then I must tell you that this is not a contribution to a solution to the problem, but it is a cynical comment on a situation that is quite serious, because you know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not possible for workers in businesses with less than five employees to freely choose a works council, because you know very well that you will not receive flowers and champagnes when you usually report to the entrepreneurs and come up with the idea of setting up a works council. With this reference, you're really just making things worse than she is anyway. From this point of view of the FPÖ, ladies and gentlemen, this law therefore has an essential and irreproachable defect and is also rejected by us.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10974	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e10996	Mr President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! Mr Kickl, if you think in your speech that this government template does not achieve a consistent, continuous and therefore efficient employee participation in the merger of capital companies across several borders, then your opinion is based on a ignorance of national and European labour law. What is the result of this government proposal? On the one hand, it is stated that in these cross-border mergers it remains in principle that the law of the Member State in which the company is established applies. In other words, in the case of a merged company based in Austria, the unchanged § 110 of the Labour Constitution Act is applied in principle. The new rules apply only in cases where higher protection has existed before the merger. It would be extremely systemic and inconsistency if we were now also to apply this regulation to establishments in which there is no works council. The basic regulation of the § 110 Constitutional Act also applies only to establishments in which a works council exists. The posting of workers to the Supervisory Board is only carried out by members of the Works Council. None of the members of the Board of Directors and employees of the trade union or any competent voluntary professional association of workers elected to the works council may be sent to the Supervisory Board. In other words, the provision of the scheme is included in the existing structure of the employee co-determination provided for in the Labour Constitution Act and is therefore in no way a social disadvantage for workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11033	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11054	Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I was able to hear this morning from Parliament's, according to its own definition, supposedly best speakers, that the ministers of the ÖVP were praised for their achievements over the green clover. I would remind myself that in Austria, apart from an economic minister, we are supposed to have a Minister of Labour; I have met the previous Minister of Economic Affairs in such a way that he is constantly trying, when it comes to the positive concerns of the workers, not to perceive them at all, just as it happened again yesterday – Mr Kickl also said it – when it comes to those who really have to work hard, not being able to retire after 45, 40 years of contributions, because the Minister Bartenstein, although it is an extra-partial concern of all the employees' representatives, has once again said: That's not in question for me! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein:... the Federal Chancellor said that, Mr. Col.!]] But in my speech, I would like to deal with the present government template, namely these extended co-determination rights in the case of cross-border mergers of capital companies. This government template is basically a positive one, since current rights of co-determination for workers will be extended. The EU directive on its implementation today provides that even in those establishments where there are no works councils, the workers – and only these! – decide who, if there is no works council, shall exercise the right to co-determination in this crucial body. That is to say, this government template once again bears the typical restrictive manuscript of the Minister of Labour, who always resorts to dubious arguments by saying: If there is no works council, there is no right to co-determination – and with that, basta, because there can be a works council in every farm anyway! The condition is that there are more than five employees employed there. In this argument, I am now saying the same thing as in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the case of the "Fall KiK" where someone has allowed himself to join the works council, since in this company, where 1,500 Austrians are employed, every day the rights and obligations of workers are trampled with the feet, and after the notice of the candidate to the works council, the temporary redundancies took place. This knowledge has to be said again in this argument of yours. I think it is good that at least the European bodies, the EU Parliament and the EU Council will adopt themselves in a positive sense in the sense of extending co-determination rights. And perhaps, Minister, take an example to the ladies and gentlemen in Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11122	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11144	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have already decided in the September-Plenum on the basis of the existing company law amendment law and are now trying to secure, through the Labour Constitution Act, the co-determination rights of workers in these merger processes. Unfortunately, however, only – this is particularly important and has already been mentioned by my previous speaker – the co-determination rights of workers and workers of businesses with works councils are defined, and that is the problem for us, because in principle we welcome this government proposal. Unfortunately, this is incomplete, because it lacks something very essential, namely the possibility of employee participation in businesses that do not have their own works council. Mr Bartenstein, you justify the absence of such a scheme by the fact that each workforce has the opportunity to choose its own works council; and if this possibility of co-determination is not used, it is almost to blame, as you, Mr Minister, it is to say, for itself. In a comment Your ministry says that it is not even possible to think that if workers want to have a representative of interest, there is no such thing. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is so, that this is not only imaginable in Austria, but for workers, it is just a matter of everyday life. I do not think I have to describe this to you in detail that there are entrepreneurs who do not just stand up to the establishment of a works council, but who, quite the contrary, are trying to prevent the creation of works councils. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you can certainly remember the case of KiK, which was also discussed in the media. And for the trade unionists among you, it is certainly not new that it is time and again that in the run-up to works council elections, at a time when potential candidates are not yet protected, these are simply cancelled in order to prevent their choice. - So please: Such situations are not only imaginable in Austria, but, unfortunately, reality! We therefore call for a legal regime for the appointment of the “special negotiating body” with employee representatives – this “special negotiating body” is involved in this particular situation – even if there is no works council in an Austrian company. In concrete terms, we propose that this representation of interests be exercised by the legal or voluntary representation of interests, i.e. the Chamber of Labour or the union. - That's our demand. Mrs Karl, you already know this request from the Committee, but you have rejected it there because you fear, as you say, that such a regulation could weaken or even undermine the position of the Works Council. – I find that very bizarre, and of course I cannot accept it either. That would be about as if you were to say that a mandatory defender is made available in a trial to someone who can't afford his own lawyer, the status of the lawyer would be weakened in itself. – Our proposal does not weaken anyone, but quite the contrary: The safeguarding of the interests of workers would be strengthened. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you, Mrs Karl, also fear a “system break” in the committee and today, if the over-company representation becomes active at the operational level, I must say to you: As a green person, I deliberately stimulate a system break when it comes to a stronger and better safeguarding of workers' interests. Therefore, in order to be able to make this suggestion formally effective, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Mr Spindelberger, I have just taken your opinion that you have nothing left but to accept this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11250	That of Mrs Magist. Treasured motion for a resolution is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11317	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11339	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The EU directive, which we are now discussing, is intended to facilitate the cross-border merger of capital companies in the EU. In view of Austria's obligation to do so until the 15th century. To implement December of this year, I think it is positive that this Federal Government has responded in good time. As regards the arrangements for the participation of workers in companies arising from cross-border mergers, it is appropriate to set up a negotiating and Entrepreneurship body which shall conclude agreements with the competent bodies of the participating companies on the participation of workers in the new company. Well, one can philosophise about whether works councils need to be used or not, but: In principle, this government proposal does not change anything in this respect. Austrian law, which means: There is no works council in companies of five employees, no obligation to create such a one – and otherwise, of course, we know the problem of works councils; the company KiK has already been addressed today. However, this is not only about KiK, because there are also other establishments that do not allow the choice of a works council. In my opinion, the interests of the workers are called for, on the one hand, by the legal representation of interests, namely the Chamber of Labour, and on the other hand by the voluntary representation of interests, namely the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, which, however, has more recently been concerned with itself than with the representation of workers' interests. I also have to say: The works councils are sometimes overwhelmed by things in firms, which therefore also have to return to the interests to be advised by them in the sense of workers' rights. I believe that in this context, in particular, a number of things are related to the legal representation of interests, i.e. the Chamber of Labour, so that it can give workers proper advice on labour law issues. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This directive, ladies and gentlemen, does not change Austrian law, but requires the legal representation of interests. This directive is basically positive.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11390	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11411	Mr President. High house! Very soon: What Mr Dolinschek said last time is perfectly correct: the implementation of this directive for the cross-border merger of capital companies has significantly improved. Mr Spindelberger, you know... – Sound technology is against me today! [[During the beginning of the statements by Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein, there are several tone disturbances.]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11444	It would have to work again now. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11459	Thank you many times, Mr President. – Mr Spindelberger, you know, of course, that what is decided in Brussels is decided by us: Either we design and carry it there with or...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11495	Mr Bundesminister, maybe take Try the microphone on the left hand side of the government bank and see if it works.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11534	Thank you, Mr President. Second attempt. – With the left hand side, I feel a little more difficult, but, Mr Oillinger, let us turn this around: [[Rejoicing and condolences with the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Oillinger: But that works!]] From your point of view, this micro is a little further to the right – and it works. It is also a question of the location and position as you see it. [[Abg. Oillinger: You're right!]] Once again, I should like to thank Mr Spindelberger, who was referring to the motto of what came from Brussels; and we should take a good example of this. . We, ladies and gentlemen, are Brussels; none is the European Union but the sum of its Member States. We also, of course, wanted this regulation, which will bring about significant improvements, as Mr Spindelberger has also pointed out. In addition to what you wanted, however, Mrs Schatz from the Greens went so far to say here: Yeah, that's a system break, but I want it! - That would be a system break. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little surprised that a page that is usually very happy to replicate on social partners and social partners does not want to note that the social partners have not reached agreement on this point because they do not want to break a system – contrary to the content of this Greens resolution. This would be a system break that, if there is no works council, things will be taken into control, so to speak, in order to send Austrian representatives to the “special negotiating body”. However, this is not necessary for the implementation of this EU Directive. In addition, I am pleased to inform you that, in total, a social partners' consensus has been reached on this issue, that we are moving very close to the rules on European society, SE. In fact, we are not entering a new country, but we can also build it on a proven basis. I am convinced that this co-determination in cross-border companies will in principle work well, on the basis of this directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11604	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11626	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! To previous speakers from the opposition series: I have the feeling – I am former Chairman of the Works Council – that it was not understood that the current cross-border mergers are in principle subject to § 110 of the Labour Constitution Act, and that is what is required by the existing Works Council. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The emphasis is hopefully on “former” works council chairman!]] We know how works councils are formed. Every one of us who has candidates for this knows how it is; and that there is always a counterwind against candidates, we know that too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So why should these special arrangements suddenly be different if we have an existing law?- Oh, my God! It cannot be said that an employee is elected by the workers – and on the other hand, we have a strong working constitution, but by the way, these things are well regulated. It is my conviction that the works council is co-determination. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] In addition to the implementation of co-determination, the reports of the directors of the companies involved are of interest. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] The report shall also be forwarded to the Works Council not later than one month before the corresponding meeting of shareholders. Any opinion of the Works Council shall be attached to the report of the Management Board and published in accordance with the relevant national rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11678	As the next speaker, Mr Ehmann is speaking with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11700	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Bartenstein, a small correction: The social partners have been very likely to point out this point in the assessment of the employee representation, but this has not become a dispute. We are dealing with the government template on the Federal Law, which amends the Labour Constitution Act, the Post-Business Constitution Act and the Labour and Social Law. This Directive of the European Union has been adopted in order to facilitate the merger of cross-border companies. Furthermore, the Directive in question must be adopted by 15 years at the latest. It will be implemented on December of this year. However, at a cross-border level, there is no right of co-determination for employees in the current working system. The aim of this government proposal is therefore to create the right of co-determination for workers in any case, something which we naturally consider to be welcome. However, it is also about creating a “special negotiating body”. This body will also have the opportunity to participate in the distribution of seats in the various supervisory or administrative councils. How can one be sent to such a body? – As soon as the Austrian share is 10 percent of the total number of all employees of this group or company, a representative may be sent from this part. As nice as this all sounds, it has a little beauty error; this has already been addressed by my colleague Spindelberger: Where there is a works council member, this is not a problem, but where not, it becomes a problem. The EU has made a requirement here and would have given us the opportunity to introduce this passport. I wouldn't have thought this was wrong, but maybe we will succeed next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11740	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11772	Mr. Federal Minister, we will not now clarify the question of where is left and right, but I am quite sure that I am usually on the right side and that the microphone that worked was also on the right side, but be it. Mr Federal Minister, since some previous speakers have also addressed a subject that is not directly related to the subject of the negotiation, namely the question of how we continue to deal with the long-term insured scheme, I have to tell you that your very fragile way of dealing with this issue or not is hopefully not just a matter for us. There are also colleagues in your own group who, beyond the party political dispute, would have wished that this question, namely, for people who have worked for 45 years, not only a regulation will be found by 2010 – this question will probably remain a topic of election – but that security will be created for those people I believe – and obviously many others, namely, a majority here in Parliament – that these people have worked long enough. Those who have worked for 45 years do not have a short working life behind them, and he/she has also deserved to be able to actually retire. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this sense, you would also be advised, Minister of State, that this issue is not put into an election campaign, but is created security, especially for the future. On the real topic: What is to be noted – and this is not our agreement in principle, but the fact that is already visible in the title of that law, which is now being decided, is also decided with our consent: The Labour Constitution Act and the Post-Business Constitution Act are amended. And the question is still: Why did the post have its own business constitution – which you wanted at the time – but why is there no common working constitution for all who are employed in private businesses? - That's one. The second is – it has already been referred to several times –: Why should we find a system for Austria that goes beyond the existing legislation? – Very simple, ladies and gentlemen: Because it's necessary! My predecessor, my colleague, my colleague, has already pointed out: There is not only the KiK example, there are many other examples that are not publicly debated. There were also examples in the past. At KiK, the Secretary of State – I would like to acknowledge this positively – was also involved in the fact that something goes on somewhere. Only: The solution, Mrs State Secretary – and this is not an accusation to you – is the result of the works council election, I say, is not very satisfactory. But whether it's about to go on in the thing – understand She also asked our request to be a start of thinking – that is, we have to deal with the fact that there is no works council in more and more companies; not because the people voluntarily decide against the works council, but because it is made very clear to them that he is not wanted. These farms are there, and you know that too. We should consider a solution to which we also want to stimulate our request: whether in those cases where there is no works council, it is also possible to think of a limited legitimacy, the Chamber of Labour – I think First of all, the Chamber of Labour, but it can also be considered about the ÖGB – the function of a council of territories should be taken over so that the interests of the workers in these establishments without the works council – and that is not only about the supranational level, but also about working in the company – do not stay on the track. In this sense, I would like to ask you, of course, to agree to our request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11849	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg, with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11870	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In addition to the increasing acquisition of companies by foreign competitors, the age of globalisation is becoming increasingly common to cross-border mergers of companies. This trend will surely continue to strengthen in the future. The danger of such mergers is from an employee's and trade union point of view that the interests and rights of employees could be partially or completely covered by the wheels, as workers' rights have so far only been regulated and guaranteed at national level. In order to regulate this cross-border merger of capital companies in the EU, the EU Directive on the merger of capital companies has been adopted. With regard to Austria's commitment to this EU Directive until 15. In December of this year, our Federal Government has presented a draft law amending the Constitutional Labour Act. This means – and this is particularly important – that workers' rights are guaranteed and guaranteed in the new, merged societies. This measure to protect workers' rights in cross-border companies is of great importance. We have already heard today that we workers' representatives also have the desire that, where there is no works council, interest representatives from AK or ÖGB can also be sent there. I would like to ask you, Mr Federal Minister, that perhaps you write a review here and send it to us so that the representatives of interest can comment on it again. In this way, we could jointly extend these rights. In the past, this business balance has been one of the key guarantees for social peace and the prevention of labour struggles. I believe that we want this successful path and we should continue in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11903	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 214 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to a sign in this regard. – In turn, this is the majority, so the draft law is also adopted at third reading. [[Abg. There are the Christmas wishes in there!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, on the representation of workers in establishments without works councils in the context of the constitution and the provision of a special negotiating body within the meaning of the Constitutional Labour Act. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:05:45]] 9. Point report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government template (215 D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Foreign Employment Act and the Labour Contract Act (442 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11956	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger with 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e11983	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) [[Abg. Amon: (in the direction of the officials next to the ministerial bank significant) There he is!]] Ah, there he is. Minister! High house! There's at least a little good news about this law novel: Subsidiary guardians will in future be treated as asylum seekers in terms of access to the labour market. – Longest overdue, finally regulated! Honestly stated: not a great deal of performance at all. The second thing you present with this novel of the Foreign Employment Act is already cosmetics. There is sufficient criticism in recent months that when it comes to the migration of researchers and scientists to Austria, it is simply a joke, as it is regulated, and that it is a shock. As a scientific location, Austria has already faced a certain amount of haema internationally. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But go!]] It is therefore high time for changes to be recorded here that bring real improvements to researchers and scientists. What you're presenting now is very nice. It is very good and right that family members of researchers and scientists also have access to the labour market. This could be an essential factor in whether a researcher or a researcher chooses to go to Austria or somewhere else. But it's relatively poor. Because what you do not do is that you give researchers the perspective to settle in Austria for a longer term or even permanent period of time and to settle here. They always say to the researchers only: You can come, you can work here, but you will always receive residence permits for one year each; there is no establishment permit unless the great piece of art succeeds in somehow entering the completely overburdened quota for key workers. That was not the case in the past. This will not change a slight increase in the key labour force ratio either. I just don't understand it and I don't understand it. What prevents you from simply saying: Yes, we want researchers and scientists in the country, so we also give them the opportunity to settle here indefinitely? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Are you afraid of the “hords” of third-country researchers who overshadow Austria? Or what's your paranoia with you? What I suspect is that in general you deal with the issue of immigration in such a restrictive way that you do not even make it where a desired call group is supposed to migrate, to loosen the system to the extent that it can. The great dilemma is that Austrian foreign law is a long-distance business and that one can also see on the labour market and on residence permits that it is about making people as difficult as possible, and that it is about being able to send the signal populistly into the right wing of the Republic: We want zero immigration. – And then you make exceptions on a regular basis; because a small piece of seasonal eggs, and because the economy is crying for more workers and skilled workers, you can allow even more seasonal eggs, that is, more people who work under unsustainable conditions under labour law. Strangely, the SPÖ agrees. They agree that there are people in Austria, workers with seasonal work that has been constantly renewed for some years, which is completely excluded from the normal protection of workers. Why is the SPÖ doing that? – I would be interested. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: What? That's not true!]] They also provide key workers whose number is strictly quoted, with very certain criteria which are difficult to meet. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Mrs. Weinzinger, that is not true!]] – Mr Minister, you can bring me your arguments afterwards, but I would ask you at least to let me speak out. The speaking time is nearly enough. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The basic problem is that you are shy about the issue of immigration like, if I can put it in salopp, the devil is the holy water, although the economy is now in a position and says we need immigration, although experts say: Economic policy, social policy, social policy Austria has always been and will continue to be a country of immigration. I should therefore like to make a motion for a resolution which aims to establish a reasonable system of regulated immigration for the future in Austria and to make some urgently needed improvements in order to avoid dealing with key labour from the flickwerk seasonal to the flickwerk and preventing desired immigration. I can therefore read the request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Give yourself a back! In the interests of many people who even knocked on with you, say yes to the areas of immigration where Austria needs it, and no to this populist argument against immigration.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12110	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Weinzinger, ladies and gentlemen, has been properly put in place and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12198	The next speaker was Mr Amon, who had two minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12220	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs Mag. Weinzinger, it's not about populist access, so to speak, against immigration, but it's about the difference we have on this question – and it doesn't matter that we have this difference either –: They don't want regulated immigration. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger:...not! How about listening?]] They say immigration can take place, however popular, immigration can be done through a right of residence that you sit down when you are only once in the country. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Do you want me to make an actual correction because you don't want to listen?]] We don't want that! We want orderly rules here. [[Abg. Oillinger: I'll tell you something!]] That's what it's all about. That's the subject and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, this is not the issue we are actually discussing, but it is the question of the foreign employment law. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: This theme is the most important!]] For example, this is a question in which you – which is not quite easy for you, as I have noticed – express praise for the Federal Government. The question is that the question of access to the labour market will be treated as asylum-seekers in the future. This is, I believe, a very, very positive measure, a very positive development. I would like to put forward an argument with which the FPÖ has also come in committee. They criticise the fact that foreigners in our country are constantly taking out only social pots without the same achievement. Here is exactly the opposite, it happens exactly the opposite of what you blame us. In fact, we allow foreigners who have a residence permit access to the labour market. This is, I think, a very positive measure. It's equally positive – that's what Mrs Mag has. Weinzinger also noted positively; I note this, I hope that you will also agree – that there will also be the possibility for scientists and researchers beyond the public sphere to be able to act in the private environment. The seasonal arrangement for agriculture and forestry has proved to be very successful. This is precisely the policy we have on this question: that we naturally want immigration and want people who find work in the country, provided that this is also useful to the Austrian economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12311	The next speaker was Mr Kickl, who had four minutes of voluntary speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12332	Madam President. Mr President, I am pleased if you start to take up at least once our suggestions from the Committee. But then you should also stick to the facts, not twist everything with everything and mess it up with the other, when it is really about you, because what you have spoken about cannot be the point at all. - But in a row. Ladies and gentlemen, I should now like to give an example. If our Lord's Secretary of State – otherwise you can't call him – every time he or one of his SPÖ colleagues makes a capital crash, out of anger, anger or disappointment a few hairs would rip off, then that would be his hair glory for a certain period of time – probably not too long, because it's a lot of crashers, but still – not to break down. So that wouldn't be noticeable. Only: Sometime – yes, I am on the matter – we would have to sit up there when he's back here, not a lionish social minister, but a kind of social-koyak. [[Abg. Dobnigg: on the matter!]] This is exactly the point at which a category comes into play, which also has an important function in the political field, namely the category of measure. This is where a quantity is converted into a quality, namely from hairy to glatty. It is also in other areas, namely the area of foreigners, the labour market and our social system, where we are faced with exactly the same problem. In fact, if you, ladies and gentlemen, make up all these systems for non-Austrian workers every time that Austrian interests are supposed to be protected on the labour market, to protect the social system and to protect the pension system, then it will soon be “enriched” with these systems. That's something we don't want Freeman! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, that is exactly why we have no joy at all, I say now, of this foreign employment law. Because you actually continue to play the game you have been playing for a long time, which you play very skillfully and always pack well, this game, which means nothing more than that you have the legitimate interests of protection of Austrian citizens – there is also: Austrian citizens! – systematically dig through and in a kind of salamitactic of this citizenship right from time to time cut more. Ladies and gentlemen! The government is on the wrong steamer in this area. We only need to take up the area of the so-called'subsidiary guardians': They go here and open the labour market out of completely misunderstood motives for a group of about 5,000 people – so many are now. These are people who have applied for asylum and have not received asylum for good reasons! That starts the whole story once. Now we cannot bring them back to where they came from for any reason, because they either planted us, did not tell us where they came from, or because they – and this is the worse case – may have become criminal among us, and if they are deported, they will suffer a terrible punishment in their homeland. [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] That means people can stay here with us, not even though they have become criminal, but because they have become criminal! You want to sell that as a social-political achievement?- Oh, my God! – If this were to be understood by the Austrians to the full extent of this dimension! It's really a disaster what you're doing! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] By the way, they also devalue the real asylumers, you devalue the asylum status: They mend immigration with asylum. And you are yelling just beyond the borders an invitation to the organized tow bands that you come in to us because there is something new positive that you can sell in this Austrian social system. They can immediately increase the prices for the tow because the offer has now become a better one! Ladies and gentlemen, for us from the FPÖ it is quite clear that, when it comes to work and foreigners, there must be a combination between work and stay. This is the principle of what we call a reasonable employment policy. Access to foreign labour has to be done only then – and now the crucial point – if we are able to resolve this shortage in the medium term, with all our own forces in advance – but not in the way you do it: with the fade of all the previous forces. That is the crucial point. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is what we need to ensure, in the medium term, an Austrian labour market, which, in your view, only consists of deficits in the health system, starting with care, through skilled workers, with the list becoming longer and longer, up to the professors, compensated by foreign forces, but at the same time letting you miss any measure to address these internal deficits through a sustainable policy. The fact that you have not done this shows that we are facing this problem at all, because if you had done a little bit of a forward-looking policy in the past, we could save ourselves all of that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12424	The motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12515	The next speaker was Mrs Csörgits. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12537	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to say the following to my previous speaker: The measures of the Federal Government are beneficial from what you have proposed here, because we always have the heart at the right place in addition to all the economic and labour laws and conditions and try to take into account and respect human beings, ladies and gentlemen, those who, for whatever reason, are looking for protection. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kickl: “For whatever reason” – this is very interesting!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Austria is a bit small!]] I now come to the current amendment to the Foreign Employment Act and to the Labour Contracts Act. It should be noted that this means that the provisions of the Government Agreement will be applied on the one hand and that, on the other hand, changes will also be made in connection with a judgment of the European Court of Justice of September 2006. As far as the Government Convention is concerned, there is on the one hand an extension of the derogations for scientists and researchers, which has already been mentioned, and there will be a change in the employment opportunities in agricultural seasonal areas. With regard to the EU-wide design of the labour force scheme for enterprises based in a Member State of the EEA and sending workers to Austria for temporary work, there will also be an amendment by Mr Wöginger in connection with a judicial statement. I would like to start with the positive and maintain that it is really welcome that, in connection with the AVRAG, the penalties have been increased. What is also welcome is the clarification in the context of the company's submissions that, if it is established that Community law does not meet conditions, it is an illegal employment of foreigners and therefore must be penalised. What I regret, Minister Bartenstein, is: To this end, the social partners have negotiated and put forward proposals, but what I still lack is that even better and tighter measures should be put in place in connection with wage dumping. It is important here that we continue to work in this direction. There is also a protocol note from the Council of Ministers, which I would like to make briefly – I quote –: In view of the gradual opening of the labour market, discussions with the social partners should also be held in order to counter wage dumping. - Quote. I don't think it can be our concern on the one hand that the social partners bring good conclusions to the collective agreement and that the whole thing will be undermined on the other. Finally, I would like to return to the EU sector. Unfortunately, it is not possible in the European Union to keep our good procedure, which we have decided together in Austria, with the prior registration of workers. It is also regrettable that the European Union does not recognise the fact that posted workers already have a translational work permit when they start their work in Austria. It is very pleasing and a good step in the right direction, however, that a manual will be prepared by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour together with the Federal Ministry of Finance until the end of the year, which will in particular facilitate the work of the KIAB. I think that this is a good step in the right direction, and I also believe that, in connection with the provisions in this Handbook, we are at least making a good contribution to the fact that people with wrong or wrong work permits are not working here, because that would not be the common concern of this bill. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12593	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12614	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The Foreign Employment Act now concerns eligible scientists and researchers. It concerns seasonal kidneys – the seasoning permit – and it concerns maritime and inland navigation, which is extended to cross-border companies based in the country. This last point is not understandable to me at all, because it does not concern anyone in Austria at all, not even the Danube. To the eligible beneficiaries: They should now be equated with those entitled to asylum. The explanatory statement shows that the one-year waiting period has, so to speak, proved to be an obstacle. I have been told that, according to the information provided by Mrs Marek's Secretary of State, there are 5 000 eligible workers in the Employment and Social Affairs Committee. So far, we have always opposed these benefits because they cannot be postponed on the one hand and have no residence permit in Austria on the other. Of course, the situation in the labour market is always the same, and in our case, Austrian workers and Austrian workers are the top priority. If the labour market allows it, why not? If he doesn't allow, this must be checked at the respective moment. We don't want a hollowout anyway! As far as scientists and researchers are concerned, derogations should be made for family members, spouses and children. For me, the question is how the activity is defined, because not every activity in a laboratory is a research activity. How exactly this is defined is a mystery to me right now. There are also no further criteria which should normally be laid down by the Federal Minister. In any event, we are not aware of what conditions these persons must meet, and it is also unclear how many people are finally given access to the Austrian labour market through these provisions. A corresponding opening up of the labour market is of course a matter of course for key workers, but then we have to introduce this so-called Green Card, then this is not to be supported, otherwise not. As far as the extension of the seasonal kidney scheme to up to nine months is concerned, I must say one thing: Under the current legal situation, the Federal Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs sets the employment permit for a maximum of six months, can also extend it to six months, and if you look at the labour market situation in the rural area, there is a need mainly for crops, not in other areas. In other areas, it is quite simply necessary, Federal Minister, to implement qualification measures, because these people have to be employed all year round, and for this they need skilled skilled workers, and they should be trained in Austria. If we extend this to nine months now – nine months in rural areas are practically something like a year-round employment – we should consider this already, because pressure on the domestic labour market should not be increased in the rural area, as this increases the risk of further thinning of the rural area. This is my opinion, Minister of State: Qualification before citizenship and before additional unqualified immigration.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12665	Mr Bartenstein spoke next. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12687	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! That's not what we want! We want, if immigration, then qualified immigration. And the thrust, ladies and gentlemen, towards researchers is in principle undisputed. Mr Dolinschek, the experience shows that we have not had any problems in the field of researchers so far. In this way, I believe that, apart from the fact that their activity is also defined, we will not have any problems here in the future. It is also this expansion of the access of researchers not so much new, but we simply note that researchers for the private sector, for the medium-sized private sector, are to come here to Austria and can express this invitation. And in particular, we say: You can also take your families, your spouses, your children, and they can also be active here. So the overall environment for researchers is to be improved and improved. We want to be at least interested in the best and most talented in the world for Austria – everyone will probably not come because other countries will keep it similar. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it was one of the reasons for this novel to the Foreign Employment Act. I'm still coming to talk to others. It is important to me, however, to note that this is one of the few areas selected, where we express concrete invitations to immigration to third-country nationals. Towards EU Member States, towards new EU Member States, this is quite another thing. In the direction of third countries, I believe that we should be particularly reticent, but at the same time be targeted, and therefore also want to address researchers beyond key forces. I do not see further immigration except for anything else, and this is absolutely not in line with, or is diametrically opposed to, the resolution tabled by the Greens, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Weinzinger. Apart from that, my calls were merely an expression of my misunderstanding for your inconsistency, because you said that seasonal eggs had no worker protection in Austria. As Minister of Labour, I say to you: They have full worker protection. They are, of course, subject to all the protection provisions of the Workers' Protection Act in a positive sense. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: As Minister of Labour, you should know this better!]] With your motion for a resolution, you want to open the borders for immigrants without asking for top qualifications. And that, I think, doesn't need it except for anything else, we don't want it. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! According to the researchers now on the topic of renovation in the sense of an ECJ knowledge: Sentinel Directive. We are a little more than an annual period, i.e. on 21. In September of last year, the ECJ condemned us – we lost the procedure – according to which our control provisions in the field of the Entrepreneurship Directive, i.e. the posting of staff to Austria, were not EU-compliant. We were different, but there is something like that – we have lost the procedure. We would thereby violate the freedom to provide services and thus one of the basic standards and freedoms of the European Union. We have tried very quickly to reorganise this area, including through a correspondingly modified practice of the AMS, have also developed a government template and had to determine – and that is essential to me now – that, although we are of course, the Federal Government, I, as Minister of Labour, my house, and also the Constitutional Service, has held that the EU-conformity has opposed the EU Commission. If in a few minutes, as I hear, an amendment is tabled which is prepared according to the best of knowledge and conscience – no question – there is probably an OK and a Go of the Constitutional Service towards EU conformity, but it is not necessarily a guarantee. They were senior officials – in the case of officials – in my house a few days ago in Brussels and have specifically agreed with the EU Commission and have received the Okay for concrete formulations. For example, there is much legal certainty that the EU Commission does not take action against the formulations it has approved itself. But we are now going further with this amendment and here, as has been said, we are on the safe side of the Constitutional Service, but not necessarily in the safe port as far as EU conformity is concerned. I didn't want to hide here. I would also like to say that I do not want to hide Mr Kickl: When it comes to 800 eligible persons, please do not speak of 5,000 and put false figures into the world. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was said in committee!]] I find your comment particularly worrying, honourable Member: Because he has become a criminal, he becomes a subsidiary guardian. In the sense of freedom of speech, almost everything can be said here, but from my personal point of view, the corresponding political rules of opposition are in violation. I can only tell you that, in our opinion and in our legal situation, someone is entitled to subsidiary protection if the asylum application has been rejected or if the asylum status has been denied, but in the event of a return to the country of origin – for example, Chechnya or wherever – a real risk of human rights violations or a serious threat to life must be given or the integrity in the context of arbitrary violence in the context of conflicts. So not because a person has become criminal, he becomes subsidiary protectionist, but from very, very weighty, human rights considerations. And you should also confess to this, Mr Kickl. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it has said something right and important to Mrs Csörgits. I recognise that, as far as possible, we are not only developing reasonable rules on wage dumping, but in agreement with the social partners, as far as possible. I can only tell you, even because a German parliamentary delegation was with me just yesterday, in Austria, who also belonged to the former German Minister of Labour Walter Riester – Riester-Rente is still a term to you – that our instruments versus wage and social dumping are quite, quite different from the German one. We have compulsory membership – not yet in the Constitution – of employers' structures. This means that collective agreements in Austria are binding for almost all employers and thus for almost all employees. I know there are exceptions, but most workers are subject to the word in a positive sense. No one can opt out there – in Germany employers can opt out of collective agreements. We have implemented in Austria – second difference, ladies and gentlemen – the sentencing directive long, long time ago – that has nothing to do with me – for all sectors, while in Germany this has only been done for the building industry and, I believe, for the construction industry and the friends in Germany have a lengthy discussion about extending the validity of this sent-in directive. And in Austria we have the right to work, which also prescribes the local wage. Now I already know: Rightly there is only where it is implemented, but the legal framework in Austria in terms of protection against wage and social dumping is a good, a very good even, and above all an unevenly better than in our neighbouring country Germany. The minutes from the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, are, to a certain extent, in implementation as the first round of social partners on measures against wage dumping on 10 October. It took place in October. . I get here a picket of my dear Mrs. State Secretary: Secondly, there has also been an expert round on reporting research activities. So here you are working in the sense of these minutes. In this way, this is an important, round legislative project with these important premises: easier entry and therefore a warm invitation for the world's top researchers to come to Austria, a loss of the one-year waiting period for eligible workers for access to the labour market, an EU-compliant implementation of the Entrepreneur Directive and extension for seasonal workers, but please only from the EU Member States, from the new EU Member States, for agriculture and forestry from currently six to nine months to nine months. – Thank you very, very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12752	The next speaker was Mr Donabauer, who had two minutes of voluntary speaking time. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12774	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The good news first: We have a great labour market situation; we have good employment; the economy is developing. The second message: Of course, we need to take precautions to meet the needs of the labour market. To this end, I would like to say: This is, among other things, the impact of a good policy in recent years and, last but not least, the tax reform which has been criticised here in this House by many groups and parties. Only by this has it been possible for farms to remain here, that new farms have come from and that we have a positive overall development. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I think we need, above all, qualified jobs, and here I would say that it might also be good to give young people a better attitude in schooling, a better overview of the working world than it is. It is noticed everywhere that too big a trend is being taught in fashion professions, in favorite professions and far too little in general. Another proposal: In the context of the training and re-training of the AMS, even more attention should be paid to needs in the labour market. I think that this government template, which is in fact a continuation of the government programme, where we have said we really want employment, we want a value added in our economy, is a good presentation. The researchers and scientists – this has been criticized in the committee; I was surprised that they were the greens, but that's their business – are not only about bringing in the personalities, but also about taking their spouses and children. What the seasonal kidneys are about, please, is that all those who have been here for more than three years in the six-month period can stay here for nine months. That's not a special position of anyone, that's just an improvement of the state of the world, because people work mostly in industries that already have a longer range than six months due to vegetation. That is why this government proposal also refers to it. Overall, a good thing for a reasonable and good further development of our economy, our country and the labour market.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12831	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12852	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We Greens do not dispute at all that there are individual brocades in this law, to which one can agree, but the temptation to swallow the whole catch for that, that is not very big, Mr Federal Minister, because there are also some poisoned baits inside. I declare this to you, Minister of State, as far as our position is concerned, as far as Mr Weinzinger has not already done. There is an extension of the seasonal kidney rule. First question, Mr Federal Minister: The seasonal scheme will be extended and integrated asylum seekers will be removed? Wonderful! That's the resolution. So I imagined when it was said that qualified immigration should take place: Those who are here and have at least qualified for language, we send them home, we do not want them, and those whom we bring up, each can only stay here for six or in a more favourable case after three years now for nine months. What is more, Mr Federal Minister, is that they are all the same, and they are just as good as everyone else! - Well, not at all! The time-limit for a contract of employment is, of course, a bad one when it comes to an unlimited contract of employment, if you want to do so. But that's still not the point. Of course, you all, too, Mr Bartenstein, know what it actually looks like in some sectors. I'm just saying, Strawberry harvest in Lower Austria or Burgenland. There are books that have been written about it, there are films. There are also wage conditions for this industry, which provide about €5-6 per hour. On the other hand, on the other hand, the strawberry workers – which are almost just women, but there are also men in it – are deducted from a correspondingly high fee for living and eating. These are realities, and I am not yet talking about what else happens in the area of extravagants. For example, for the duration of time they work here as harvest workers, the passports are taken away, as well as in newspapers. They come from the new candidate countries. This is, as it were, the way in which Austria receives the people from the new accession countries: If you want to work here, then in all cases you pay badly, in a worse trade, not qualified. That's what we think of the people here. On the other hand, you, Federal Minister, say that immigration is only real in the qualified area. This model has nothing to do with qualified immigration, and the rules of the researchers can't hide the fact that, on the one hand, researchers who have already been treated here in accordance with the law of establishment have lost the status of establishment and residence and have been transferred back to the residence regime over the night, at the turn of the year. Even if you say that there is now the possibility for family members – we also see it as good – to receive residence and employment opportunities here, it cannot be overlooked that the right of residence in the field of research is not an attractive alternative. I'm sure not! If you want top researchers here, you can't tell them: But you have to apply for a new residence permit each year. This is a disaster, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So you want to get top research into the country? And through the right of establishment, access opportunities are so limited that you certainly do not receive additional researchers in corresponding quantities in this way. But now something that is not inside this regulation: the asylum seekers. Positive, I admit: The eligible guardians are now inside, they can work here. Good. But what about the asylum seekers? I read to you from the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 9. ==References== This was the ÖVP that made this the subject in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”. “Asyl seekers are only allowed to do sex work – Salzburg’s ÖVP wants to make towing harder and ban the prostitution of asylum seekers. As a cleaning woman, asylum seekers are not allowed to work, as prostitutes very well.” Valid Austrian law, which we somehow handle by looking away. That's it. These people who are asylum seekers here who want to work here, who also want to integrate, a job opportunity to refuse normal work and say at the same time, but you can still try it in prostitution, that is pure cynicism. But it's even stronger. ==References== October, that is, just a few days after this article “Asyl seekers are allowed only sex work” in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, it is then in the “Presse” – and this is not about Austria, but about the messages with which the deportation of people here in that country is justified – under the title “Deportion Notice for Baby”, that a woman with her baby has received a deportation notice to Nigeria. And in the notice it says: “In it, the officials of the Ministry of the Interior explain, among other things, that in the former capital of Nigeria – quote – “a hiding-place is easily possible” – this justifyes the deportation, according to the official, “and lists jobs.” Quote from the notice: "In many of these business areas, young women are mainly employed or employed. Young women are particularly successful because they attract male customers.” – Quotes. “And for childcare, it says: ‘It should be noted that sex workers are usually dependent on child care by third parties.’’ I say to you that in this House, the word “sinning” is obviously not allowed, but that is really a cleaner! Such notifications are issued in Austria. With such modesty, but also with valid law, asylum seekers are told in Austria: In the field of sex work, prostitution you can try it. We don't really like it, but, well, should be. Then the people are postponed, and they are told that you can do the sex work or prostitution in Nigeria. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Maybe this is true!]] – Perhaps it is true, you say, Mr. Graf. You know that's the next cynicism about these people! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Maybe the facts are right!]] This is once again the next sourry you commit, Mr Graf, that you want to somehow associate women with prostitution. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] No matter whether women come from Austria or from other countries, Mr Graf Member: You can't act like that! In Austria, for example, neither asylum law nor foreign employment can work. And that's the real problem. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You used the word “saury ” twice! That's an order call! That's a double order call!]] – Mr Westenthaler, I would be quite calm in your place.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12951	Mr Oellinger! Unfortunately, neither the word “snowry ” nor the word “sausage” are permitted in this House. I therefore need to warn you and give you a call for order. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's it! Bravo! Such a primitive thing!]] The next speaker is Mr Riepl, who has three minutes' speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e12986	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! A topic of the novel of the Foreign Employment Act is, as already stated, the EU-compliant design of workers posted to Austria. What's this about? I would like to briefly describe this by means of an example. We looked at the problem very carefully a few years ago. An Austrian company orders an investment from an Italian supplier. The Italian supplier receives the order, but has no staff to disassemble and install this facility in Austria. He hires 100 Asians in Asia, takes them one night after Milan to the headquarters of this Italian company and sends them to Austria the next day as a permanent employee of the Italian company. That was the problem, and at the time we found that we had already had the biggest problems under the old § 18 of the Foreign Employment Act – before the conviction and before the amendment now – to carry out the corresponding monitoring of the data and facts and to establish the legality of this posting. I wrote you a letter back then, if you remember, Minister of State, and asked for a special examination of this matter. Today we have a new situation in the sense of changing the foreign employment law, but I am not convinced – and I would like to express this here – that the new situation is now really helpful in holding back certain practices. In that case, they were not rewarded either with us or with the Italians, but in the home country they got their wages on a collection account of an agent, and when they returned after three months, they hoped that they would really find money there. That's what it looked like at the time, and the Italian company, of course, said: Don't check us! We are in the EU. Everything's going to be all right. It's none of your business. So that's the problem, and I think we're going to have to make sure we're going to have to make sure that, as it's so nice to say, the employer's legal status or legal standing there, having a work permit, having social security, and that our wage and working conditions are also respected. I have received information from another sector that is already waiting for this law, namely from the temporary employment sector. It will probably now be tried by the Europe-wide lending companies to grant the Austrian branch of the same company from the Italian branch, from the Hungarian branch or from the Polish branch to the Austrian branch of the same company, so that it could then be completely open, completely without difficulties, a transfer of labour, depending on the needs. This is also a matter where I would like to ask you to really keep the promise in time. They said – that's how I was told – that They are ready to discuss these issues with the social partners. As far as possible, this should be done in this year, so that we may come up with a further coordinated procedure in connection with the opening of the East, with the need for skilled workers and with all these points. That would be my request on this matter today. I do not wish to give you any advice, Mr Federal Minister, but I do not think I am entitled to do so because of your speech: A little more courage towards the EU Commission! And if you need a support, say it. Maybe we could do that. Subject: Who knows whether they are still accepting this amendment? So we can trust ourselves a little more courage, I think. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13037	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz, who spoke at 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13058	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! This bill extends the circle of those who have access to the Austrian labour market. On the one hand, these are those entitled to subsidiary protection. Mr Federal Minister, it is already as honourable Member Kickl has said: Subsidiary guardians are those who have not received asylum, who have no grounds to escape, who are not refugees, but who are still unable to bring them back to their homeland. Why? What can be the reason for this? – One is that the persons who do not give us any information about their identity and origin, and the second, most preferred, are the persons who, because of crimes they have committed here or already in their country of origin, threaten a punishment in their country of origin which we feel is disproportionate. This is particularly true of those who come from Nigeria and who have been guilty of drug trafficking here. There is a VwGH judgment, which says that the penalties there on drug trafficking and damage to Nigeria's reputation abroad are such that we keep these people here in the country. Mr Kickl is right. By the way, in contrast to what your security politicians are always saying here, they are not only making an immigrant out of the asylumist, but now also from the subsidiary protectionist. This is an immigration instrument. Those who gain this title have identical rights – even in the social field you are increasingly trying it – like Austrian citizens. Second point: the seasonal kidneys. Here too, there is an extension that actually means a abolition of this status. In both cases, this opening up of the labour market, ladies and gentlemen, will bring strong pressure from SPÖ, especially the lower wage segments. We do not want to do this, and therefore I would like to make the following request: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] [[Quoted print version removed]] We are bringing in this amendment because we are convinced that the phrase “Austria needs” must be “need Austrians”. We are aware that, as Members of this House, we must have in mind the interest of the Austrians in this House. We meet others with respect and respect their dignity, but it cannot be that – quote – “whoever has taken a foothold here for any reason” enjoys the same rights as a citizen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13144	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Rosenkranz has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13222	I am now interrupting the session for a minute. Then we start at 3:00 p.m., with the call of the urgent inquiry.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13259	I will start the sitting again and interrupt the negotiations on item 9 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:23]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Justice on no mercy for child abuse and against dangerous early arrests (1644/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13296	We arrive at urgent treatment of the written question 1644/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13623	I give the floor to Mr Deputies Ing. Westenthaler as the first questioner for the reasons of the request, which according to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13676	Madam President. Normally, a minister or a minister appears when a urgent request is made to a member of the government. [[Abg. Parnigoni: She's already here!]] [[Further calls.]] I wait until she is here, and give her a speech for it, so kindly that she too may listen to what I warmly welcome you, Mrs Federal Minister for Justice, and may inform you of the latest crime figures: [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] In Austria, 441 851 crimes were committed by January until September 2007. Conversion would mean: 67 crimes per hour we are currently reporting in Austria. A crime record without equal! In the federal states there are enormous increases – in August compared to the previous year –: in Upper Austria 12 percent, in Vorarlberg 8 percent, in Burgenland 7 percent, in Lower Austria 6 percent, in Tyrol 5 percent, in Carinthia 4 percent. [[Abg. Riepl: Are the host shops also there?]] It's really incredible, in Vienna, only a quarter of the crimes will be cleared up at all – only more than 25 percent, Mr Riepl, but you don't care, I know you've never had much left for security. Only a quarter of the crimes will be cleared up! Vienna, the Eldorado of the bank robbery, over 60 unexplained bank raids in the first half of the year. The whole thing is garnished by cruel child abuse cases like last one of those by a freeman at a Vienna school who raped a girl there. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Marizzi.]] We have increased risk of terror by fundamentalists, we have the first arrests in Austria. We have 13 000 criminal asylum seekers in the country – no one is worried about the victims of these criminal asylum seekers. The organized gang crime from the East is also flourishing. – Ms. Minister! And what are you doing in this phase? – You think in old Brodasian manner – Broda is your great example – about milder punishment and milder punishments, yes, you even send a so-called prison relief package for consideration, which in fact would have to be called quite different, namely, “indemnification package”, where from the relaxed execution of punishment about the premature release, the conversion of imprisonment into fines, the milde for offenders to increased discharges, and also about others I will come to talk about. Mrs. Minister, as Minister of Justice, you are responsible for protecting the population and not for the well-being of the perpetrators. You should be concerned about the victims and take seriously the fears of those concerned and not put the understanding of the perpetrators in the foreground, for if you do, then you should not be a minister, but a probationist, then it would actually be your dream job. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Minister! In Austria, we have 2,000 cases of child shyness every year – the number of darkers is much higher, namely about 10,000 cases, as the experts have already noted. Almost daily we read about such acts, and almost daily we shake our heads over mild judgments, conditional punishments, or even punishments of a few months that such offenders are ultimately “mounted up”. Why is this the case, Mrs. Minister? – Because we don’t have minimum penalties for all these crimes, and if so, only a few months. We need to set clear signals against child abuse! That is why we will now also make an initiative to increase all minimum penalties for sexual offences against children to at least ten years' imprisonment. This is fair and also provides protection for our children, is ultimately a preventive process that we want to enforce. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, we also want to double the criminal framework for all crimes – I say deliberately: all crimes – that are related to children at all, in order to send a clear signal here. Mrs Berger, an incredible scandal is currently – I do not know if you are aware of this and if you know it –: In the sexual field, we have criminal offences such as § 207 Sexual abuse of unmistakable, but also § 202 Sexual necessity and § 92 Quals or neglecting unmistakable, younger or defenseless persons. Do you know what connects these three cruel crimes? – All three do not result in life-long punishment in the event of death! At § 207 to 15 years of age, at § 202 to 15 years of age, and at § 92 there is only the possibility of a maximum of ten years of imprisonment for quaals or neglecting unmistakable, younger or defenseless persons until death! It is a scandal that people may be killed in us and that one or the perpetrators will not be able to find out about it for life! You have to do something about it! And that is what we are asking, Mrs Berger, to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why we also want to increase the level of penalties here. We want all these crimes to be the minimum penalty with death, of course, for life, Mrs Berger! This is our demand to send a clear signal here as well. Lastly – I mentioned it earlier – a freeman went to a school and raped a girl; a particularly disgusting offense. Now I could ask you, Mrs Minister: If the releaser is sentenced, when will he be released after your release package, do you know that? Did you figure that out? Or: You have said that you want to provide such conditional discharges with shackles in the future, because this keeps the perpetrators from doing so. – Do you think that – I would have said this: this element – this person would not have gone to school if he had been wearing foot shackles? Do you seriously believe that you can put a driver in the barriers? How come it is, Mrs Minister, that you, the judicial body, the judicial enforcement body, were not at all aware that this criminal has already been a number of times – already several times! – was displayed for sexual offences? One did not know that, and that is why he was finally released. This is a scandal of justice, as he says in the book, ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] I'm really wondering: Have you already checked how many sexual offenders are currently running around because of a conditional release from detention or are going to be released from prison? Did you check that? Have you taken such measures? I say it quite openly: Whoever destroys the souls of our children does not have the right at all to enter into a relaxed execution of punishment! He has done the right, he must be behind the lattice and mustn't get out! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This is a very important measure that we demand: a ban on the loosened enforcement of child abuses and – now it comes – a ban on child abusers who are returning to freedom. Mrs. Minister! ==References== In May here in this House, four parties, against the votes of the Greens – four parties; Mr Cap, also you and your party and Mr Klubobmann Schüssel and his party, adopted a motion for a resolution calling on the government to take place until 1. A report on how it intends to implement the ban on children's children. We do not have the report until today. There's no report! I wonder, Is this just sluggishness, or is it really a conscious increase in Parliament when resolutions, Mr Cap, are not taken seriously by the government? That's a strong piece! This is not parliamentaryism, as we imagine when deadlines are set, when resolutions are decided, but the government does not stick to it in these cases, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Another point is the question of detention. Have you ever looked at this in Switzerland? There, by a majority in Parliament, it was decided that for life-long condemned sexual offenders no arrest test is allowed! That means that this culprit is also really behind bars for life and cannot be released by any tricks of lawyers. That's something we're standing for. It would be right to say: If a person commits such an act for which he receives life-long – and this is a particularly cruel act when a judge decides once for a lifetime – then he has always lost the right to freedom. Human rights to freedom have been lost by such a person who has suffered from child abuse for life and must therefore not even be given the opportunity to return to freedom via a detention test. That is our demand, too, and we ask you to consider it. Mrs Berger, you are a self-declared Broda fan. As I know, shortly after you take office in your premises, you have inaugurated a "Broda Shrine" and now pay tribute to it; probably you pass by every day. You yourself said he was your biggest model. – There is good and bad about Broda. The good thing about Broda was, he took Parliament seriously and made reform projects, legal proposals of the judiciary very, very long in Parliament, which is in your current detention package, already with 1. January 2008 is to enter into force, not the case. You don't let us discuss it in detail, you want to go through it, go over the opposition, and you don't want to discuss it with us at all, because it's just things that are scandalous – I'm coming to talk to them. Mr Broda was in office from 1970 to 1984. We know: prisonless society, let's all be free – wonderful, we don't need prisons. But do you know how much crime has increased in the years of Brodas? – By 22 percent! This was the result of Brodach's crime or imprisonment. That's not our policy. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Do you know how crime has increased in the six years where you have ruled? – More than 30 percent!]] Therefore, this detention package is in fact a dangerous way if you say you generally want 10 percent fewer prisoners. These are 900 prisoners, according to the current stand in the detention centre, who are simply released over the comb. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have demolded the executive and make yourself there! That's a joke! That's incredible!]] I tell you, if you make this completely indifferent, then the credibility of prosecution has been questioned. And you know what happens then? – Then you have to ask yourself, slowly, whether a judge’s sentence is actually only a recommendation and nothing else, even though judge’s judgments and judgments are so eroded and undermined. Their aim is to raise the number of conditional redundancies indiscriminately. The prerequisite – for example, this is also stated in this draft; you have to imagine that! – the condition of failure of a conditional release, so that someone can no longer be released due – that’s what’s inside! – should only be the action of a criminal offence with serious consequences. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] What does that mean, Mr Donnerbauer and the ÖVP, which is a security party? Does this mean, in return, that criminals who have been in prison for crimes without serious consequences already have the resulting discharge in their pocket at the time of the announcement of the judgment and already know that they have come out earlier on the basis of the new proposal by the Minister of Justice? – It really can’t be! It also states that the minimum retention period is reduced from three months to two months. - The next easing. In addition, it says that a conditional dismissal should also be possible, even in the case of partial penalties, if there is a non-conditional part. It's a little complicated, but it is. Even there should be a relaxation, a reduction, a possibility of conditional dismissal. - That's not what we want. Or: They are also involved in judicial independence. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: such a nonsense!]] Do you know what's in it, ladies and gentlemen? In the future, expert lay judges who are sent by the Minister of Justice by the Federal Ministry of Justice will decide on the conditional redundancies. No longer prosecutors, no more judges, but lay judges, who essentially come from the parole aid and perhaps also from the school Brodas, you do not know, and then, in case of doubt, always stand out for a conditional dismissal. And we already have it: Hundreds of arrests, hundreds of criminals released to the population. – It can't be! This is not safe, it is insecurity, Mrs Minister, which we are fighting in a massive way. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: a legal claim – that must be broken on the tongue – for foreign offenders, who can generally be released after the half-punishment, if they declare themselves willing to leave voluntarily. That is to say, foreign professional criminals and gangs who are committed by the police are set on foot against their promises after half the term of punishment. – Identification You're the 'Joe-Brown-Phenomene', Mrs. Minister? Do you know what that is? Ask your officials or the foreign police officers once! The so-called Joe-Brown system means that there are a lot of Joe Browns that look the same as those that have the same measurements. And do you know who these people are? – These are exactly the perpetrators who will be responsible for the country, already now, and two or three times, coming back after a few weeks and being arrested again, all under the same name. In experts one speaks of a “Joe-Brown phenomenon”. They want to set foreign offenders on foot after half the term of punishment and tell them that they can go. Then they come back in some way and commit a crime again. – It really can’t be! This package is a real attack on security in Austria! I really wonder why the ÖVP, which is always so concerned about safety, agrees with such macheloikes at all. It cannot be that such an uncertainty package is supported in such a way. Mrs. Minister, if we are already on current questions, I must say that it also moves us to find a very up-to-date story that can be found in the newspapers today – that is also good for that – namely: “Justice is practicing massive criticism of the new addiction law”. ‘Plan: Mild for Dealers’. – This is the latest version prepared by the Ministry of Justice in relation to the drug law, namely that in the future road dealers, i.e. those criminals who give our children drugs, sell them, seduce them to take drugs, get a milder punishment. We'll pardon them. We invite you to: Come here, no problem at all, with us you only get conditional punishments. Mild for dealer. – Mrs Minister, what a new “gag” is that you are planning? It would actually be a gag if it were not so sad and if not our children and our families would be affected. This is the next scandal that will ultimately be executed in this Brodach penitentiary. Ladies and gentlemen! We've made clear demands in the room. We have also made a proposal for what you could do to deal with the miser of the small number of detentions. Yes, this miser is given: 9 000 prisoners, and we only have 9 000 seats, okay. But why not consider how to wisely create new prison rooms when crime increases? If crime increases, if we have more organized crime from abroad, if we have more crimes against children, if we also have more crimes, as far as banks are concerned, if all crimes so rise, why don't you convert a barracks into a detention centre? That would be reasonable tax money. In Austria, there are currently six German army casserians who cannot sell the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft because they do not buy anyone. They've been empty for many years. I ask you, Mrs Minister, to contact the Federal Property Society and take on such a barracks, equip her to a detention centre – and you have new places and don't have to let criminals run around freely! This is a wise approach that we support. This is a wise idea that you should actually implement. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But we don't have another possibility either – that's also interesting, you should consider that too, that's also an idea –: Why can't a court have sex offenders today if, for example, one in prison insists that this is a particularly dangerous guy to put into a closed institution? It doesn't exist. There's no such thing as that at the moment. That's what I'm asking myself: Why is that? – We have also asked you this question: Why is that? Why don't you get smarter and don't put the courts back in here after an end to a prison sentence, so that it doesn't just make any predictions by any people who won't take responsibility if it comes back out? Why can't the courts decide whether this person needs to stay behind the castle and bars or whether he's being delivered to a closed institution? We need – that would also be an interesting approach – of course more judicial guards – here we are with you, we demand that too. It's right: If we have a higher attack on crime, if we have more prisoners, then we also need more judicial guards, then we need a better budget for the justice sector. In this regard, you will have us as an ally. In the same way, as an ally, you have us when it comes to making international terrorism in our country with better methods of arrest and to lay the craftsmanship on it. There too you have our support. Current case: We welcome the fact that there is an agreement between the Interior and the Justice Department that in the future advanced tracking methods on the Internet, in the PC area, will be possible. But if I hear when this should be possible, I am very, very skeptical again. I hope you chose the circumstances in such a way that you can apply it. Because we know today, not only because of the surveys also our state police, that recruitment and the start of a terrorist act are currently taking place on the Internet. That's why it's just right – and that also distinguishes us from the FPÖ, which does not want it. We want this. We want to put the executive in the hands of better hunting methods to protect the population. That's what we're standing for! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Minister! The population has a right to safety! This right is massively undermined by your detention program, it is undermined. This right will be no more, if this is so decided – I ask the ÖVP to take a serious look at it again – because then we let criminals go of the population, then we do not increase the punishments, but lower them, then we have not taken up the fight against child abuse, but we have put the slide on them, and then this is not an announcement against crime in this country. We strongly warn against this policy of excusing these serious boys, of criminals in these areas. Mrs Minister, think carefully whether you are going through what you are planning! If you do, you will at least get to know us as bitter opponents.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13866	In response to the question, the Federal Minister for Justice has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e13888	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you for the opportunity to comment again on matters of criminal law in this House on the occasion of this urgent question. The situation I found at the start of my office is indeed a massive overbureau in the judicial institutions. Our analyses have shown that, to a large extent, two thirds of the population are due to this overburden on prisoners with short sentences of liberty. Also in international comparison, the detention rate in Austria is very high in relation to the population and the development of crime. And the example of Switzerland as a positive example shows that we have much higher prison rates than Switzerland. Excessive prisons are in themselves a security risk. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Let's build a new one!]] The less intense the execution of the sentence can deal with the individual prisoner, the more unfavourable is the prognosis of relapse and thus the security development in the large. In view of this situation, from the start of my office, it was a priority of the judicial body to deal with the execution of the sentence. I have been able for the first time in the budget negotiations to achieve a significant increase in the staffing level for judicial institutions for the first time in years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This has been reduced by 5 percent among the previous governments, although the number of prisoners has increased more than significantly. I should like to thank the Minister for Finance and the House once again for supporting this issue. With regard to additional detention capacities, I should also like to point out that prisons have been closed in Vienna and we can now, unfortunately, with some delay, because new construction is necessary, build a youth court with a youth execution facility. [[Abg. Scheibner: There has not been the building closed!]] We will create additional detentions for young people there, we will create additional detentions for women. We will therefore provide for 450 additional detentions for the first time. To the ever-increasing barracks idea, I can say that this idea has been rejected under Federal Minister Böhmdorfer, because the barracks in the structural state in which they were then already did not meet the security requirements of judicial institutions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's where you have to invest!]] I should also like to point out that one of the further priorities has been the extension of the protection of victims since I took office. We have significantly expanded process support, coordination, emergency call, the creation of victim protection centres, in particular support for child protection centres and the appropriate psychosocial and legal opportunities in this area. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The aim of criminal law policy must be to reduce the fallback rates and thus achieve greater security. The aim of all current criminal law projects is to increase security through more targeted measures. For example, it has been shown that the short sentences of freedom mentioned above have an extremely adverse impact on resocialisation. On the other hand, we have had the experience that even in very difficult groups of perpetrators, such as the sexual offenders, with the use of tailored therapies and parole aid, the relapse rate could be reduced very strongly, namely in the single-digit percentage range. The Court of Justice has a special facility, which is also very successful internationally, with the expert service for sexual offenders. With a decree published only a few days ago, I ordered the extension of this service station. In this context, the resulting dismissal is also an important instrument, since it can be linked to the conditional dismissal and only to the conditional dismissal and not after the full penalty of treatment orders, probation aid and judicial control. Experiencedly, this combination of measures leads to significantly lower withdrawal rates than the mere withdrawal of the entire criminal period. Then the prisoner goes back to everyday life without any control and surveillance. In this context, I should also like to remind you that in 100 sexual offences, we have 99 first-class offenders and only in one case a relapse offender. That is, we must focus our whole attention in this area on the first perpetrators. That can be the new companion of the woman, that can be the teacher, that can be the nice neighbor, the good uncle. In the fewest cases, in one of a hundred, it is a relapse culprit. I can also say that, in particular, the questions raised to me, 5, 13 to 21 and 23 to 34, show a fundamental misunderstanding regarding the package of measures for greater security that I have tabled by improving the enforcement and prevention of relapse risks. Without prescribing the discussions in the House on the first draft, I would like to take the opportunity to explain the intentions here. I therefore answer questions 5, 13 to 21 and 23 to 34 as follows: My desire for reform in the field of criminal law is characterised by the basic idea of achieving greater security in society through better design of the execution of the sentence. The ministerial draft sent to the general review – the assessment period will not end until 22 December. In this context, October – provides for a bundle of measures that are subject to the objective of increasing security after the release of detention. In principle, therefore, penalisation considerations should be put in the background and replaced by considerations based on the effects of implementation and accompanying measures to ensure freedom of life. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who evaluates this?]] The government programme is already saying that “in the field of substantive criminal law, the possibility of a conditional dismissal should be improved while strengthening the prevention of relapse for persons who are permanent, in particular by enabling conditions”. This order is in compliance with my draft. The focus, therefore, is not on facilitating the conditional dismissal, but on a better assessment of the individual personality of the condemned and of a strongly expanded accompaniment and control of life in freedom after dismissal. It is essential that the forecast to be made is not, in principle, a general reduction in the duration of the fine. It is intended to be assessed in particular in the individual case, how the previous execution has affected the person of the convicted and whether there is a reasonable prospect of no further criminal action being committed by arrangement of probation aid and instructions, such as for the continuation of medical treatment. I emphasize that the danger of any relapse is to be taken into account, and not just as you meant, a danger of action with serious consequences. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But stand in there!]] You have a wrong text here. Please look at the text that went into review. As far as the aspect of the general prevention in the question is concerned, such considerations should continue to be taken into account in serious cases, namely if a convict is to be released from a more than five-year term of imprisonment. We are thus approaching the judicial decision-making practice. Studies have shown that general prevention considerations in the decision on conditional redundancies are, in any case, only used in the area of serious crime. A conditional redundancie after the execution of two thirds of the penalty only from general-preventive considerations seems inappropriate because a long execution already sufficiently fulfils the purposes of the General Prevention and the resulting discharge in the absence of a much shorter sentence does not put the convicted under pressure during the probation period. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Who says that?]] I also pay particular attention to improving the assessment of sexual offenders. The already established and scientifically recognised service for sexual offenders should be extended to an assessment and evaluation body for violent and sexual offenders. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Is that a quote now, or is that your opinion?]] It is important here to realize that in the case of convicted persons who have been observed and treated by this body in execution, the decline to a margin of less than 5 percent could be reduced. Now we are taking another step by ordering, in the procedure for deciding on the conditional dismissal, that sexual offenders should be required to obtain an opinion in this assessment body. This will make it possible to take precisely coordinated, individually effective measures and to issue instructions that will also protect the population from dangerous offenders. In the future, this assessment body will also be heard before any decision on steps in freedom such as output, interruption or release. These measures should make it possible to refrain from taking steps as you have referred to them in question 5. This will also be the next aspect of security, namely electronic monitoring. Consciously, the focus of the draft is once again on an individually correct assessment of the danger of the convicted. If, after an opinion of the assessor, first steps in freedom – all of this serves to resocialize by improving the preparation of a life in freedom – the control aspect is to come to the fore, which is being expanded by the use of electronic surveillance measures. Of course, we have to use an applicable and functioning technique here. Here again, I can refer to the example of Switzerland, where these funds are used very comprehensively. Individual, non-schematic assessment of a convicted person also requires a high level of expertise in social work. That is why we propose that the decisions should also include professional lay judges in this area. However, the majority of the decisions will remain with the judges. The decisions shall be made by two judges and a professional court. The problem of overburdening our detention centres is also due to a high number of non-residence-fixed foreign offenders. In this area, special preventive considerations cannot become effective, as there would have to be a suspension or a ban on residence for Austria. In this situation, the early release, under the threat of the immediate execution of the remaining penalty, should therefore be possible if the person concerned does not comply with his obligation to leave the federal territory or returns. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't release after half! That's incredible!]] It is also our concern, of course, that we benefit from all the opportunities we have at European level – in the last two years they will be much better – and that we will see within the European Union that we have the implementation in the home country and that this principle is generally enforced. Finally, I can say that, as mentioned above, the debt relief package is still under review. This House will determine the final timetable. And, of course, there should be enough time to carry out detailed discussions here. The date of entry into force will of course also have to be based on the discussions here in the House. Now to questions 1 to 4: In the period 11. January 2007 to 17. A total of 10 086 residents were released from the Austrian institutions on October 10, 2007, of which 1,368 were due to redundancies. In the relaxed execution we currently have 1 458 inmates. The extent to which these groups are divided into the individual crime groups was unfortunately not possible in the short period of time available to us to answer the very detailed and very long questions. We'd like to do that in writing. On the question of the number of residents who are also asylum seekers in Austria, I can say that we do not conduct statistics in criminal proceedings. In question 6, it must be pointed out that all personal data that may be used in a rule of law is accessible to the judicial authorities. The Penalty Management shall endeavour to base all relevant and exploitable facts of the decision on enforcement reliefs. It should not be overlooked that such information constitutes only snapshots of the moment and that the decision should also take into account the conduct of the prisoner during detention and his willingness to cooperate in the pursuit of the purpose of detention. Therefore, the institutions usually have a much more extensive knowledge of the passenger's personality than this results from individual statistically considered events in the past. In addition, the criminal enforcement administration, with the assessment and evaluation service for violent and sexual offenders already mentioned several times, has scientifically trained care staff, which in future is increasingly used for technical advice on decisions regarding execution reliefs such as exit or release. On questions 7 to 11, I would like to point out that the group of measures for greater security I have tabled is only a first step. We will propose further improvements in a further step, in particular in the fight against violent crime, which aim to combat long-term violent relations in the focus of criminal law in the sense of victimised criminal justice. To this end, we have had a legal comparison of the Swedish model and want to present its results in a wider environment in an already used working group, because only by introducing a new crime stock can the entire spectrum of violence in women and children be ill-informed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the life sentence, I would like to maintain that it is provided everywhere where it corresponds to the need for sanctions of the most serious crimes. Again, I believe that every human being deserves the opportunity to understand and therefore the life-long imprisonment should be limited to a few exceptional cases. They refer to the Swiss people's will. I do not think that it can be valid for Austria, and it cannot, in the end, change commitments derived from the European Convention on Human Rights. I should like to point out once again that, if Switzerland is already referred to, we could also take a lead in the very advanced models that are to be applied in Switzerland in the execution of the sentence. On the question of alleged imbalances in the relationship between property offences and the offences against body and life, I would first like to point out that there is a difference here as to whether the question of the criminal framework of the criminal code or the question of penalties imposed by the courts is addressed. As far as the criminal framework is concerned, I believe that the current system of the Criminal Code is characterised by a long-term, broadly balanced balance between property offences and crimes against body and life. The criminal frameworks are also absolutely in line with European law, as far as the minimum maximum penalties are concerned. In fact, the existing criminal threats in the Austrian Criminal Code do not go beyond these requirements at present. As an example, I would like to mention the national implementation of the EU Framework Decision to combat the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography, in which the maximum penalty provided for in the Criminal Code is usually two to three times the minimum penalty provided for in the Framework Decision. On the issue of the criminal framework for sexual offences, I should like to remind you that a debate in this House took place in May that the majority of this House agreed on an evaluation of the changes in this area that were introduced in 2004. I believe that the criminal code in particular should not make great changes every year. We will carry out this evaluation. I have already promised, on the occasion of the debate at that time, that I can quite imagine that, in particular in the case of two criminal offences, where, on the occasion of the 2004 criminal law amendment law, the minimum frameworks you are now calling for have been abolished, the minimum penalties have actually been implemented. To the extent that the question of the criminal frameworks concerns the penalties actually imposed by the courts, I would like to point out that the award of penalties is an independent case law, which has to be taken into account in a number of circumstances which are largely excluded from a purely superficial-linear view. For example, mitigating and mitigating reasons have a significant impact on the specific level of penalties. In the case of property offences, it is often the numerous relevant pre-conceptions that sometimes give the public the impression that the property offences are much higher in relation to the offences against body and life. Question 12: The Novelle on the Addictions Act was now under review. We have got about 40 comments on this. There has been a misunderstanding that the system of criminal offences has been amended in accordance with EU law. The impression that there is a reduction in the trade in addiction is absolutely wrong and is based on the fact that the new draft has not been assessed in its entirety. Questions 21 and 22: The BZÖ's display, based on these questions, of 10. October 2007 is currently being examined and edited by the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna. On questions 35 to 37: In the resolution you referred to, 3rd reading. On May 31, 2007, it was not about the immediate implementation of a professional ban on sexual offenders. ==References====External links== I am allowed to report that, together with Mr Platter, I have a working group in which we from both resorts collect comprehensive proposals to improve what we can still improve in order to avoid sexual offences in Austria. At the end of October, we will present a common result here. On the one hand, as far as professional bans are concerned, I should like to point out which provisions are already in place here, on the other hand, the ban on working time is too short. We have documented – especially in current cases – that it is not only a matter of pronouncing individual professional bans, but also of ensuring that people who work as youth caretakers are kept away from children and young people in whatever areas; in the sports sector, in supplementary education, in many voluntary areas; and in many sexual offences. We will only be unable to achieve this through individual professional bans. Here, too, it will be possible, by increasing the use of the instrument of judicial instruction, to apply commands for appropriate conduct. The package of measures proposed by me to increase security is already trying to take this much wider approach into account by increasing the emphasis on the arrangement of probation aid and the granting of instructions, which should also be used – and in particular – in the area of reduction of retroactiveness in sexual offenders. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14093	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes and that each club has a total speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Scheibner. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14121	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, as I heard this lecture in response to our urgent request, I thought: What would another government have told a Clubobmann Cap or a clubman Gusenbauer, colleague Parnigoni or others here at the speaker's desk if we had heard such a response here in the House, as we have heard now? [[Abg. Parnigoni: Actual!]] Mr Parnigoni – Yes, so it is. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is, in fact, an insult to Parliament!]] Perhaps you can then provide us with the manuscript so that we can read a little more, but it should also be this manuscript – you may not care now, Mr Krainer, but I can remember that at the time you did not care if you did not hear the opinion of a minister here, but only what some secretaries have written down. [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Krainer and Mr Parnigoni.]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We don't even care about that. We want to hear the opinion of the competent and responsible Federal Minister. Mrs Bundesminister, perhaps You can read these manuscripts at least once before, because then you might feel like it – yes, it's incredible! – that there are some contradictions. [[Abg. May. Worm: That's incredible!]] First of all, one of a hundred sexual offenders is spoken of as a relapse, and in a later paragraph – apparently made by someone else – we hear of a goal to reduce the relapse rate to five out of a hundred. So what's right with you now? [[Abg. Krainer: You didn't listen! “Single percentage range” means between 1 and 9!]] [[Call the SPÖ: Listen!]] – Yes, we have listened in contrast to you, but again, in contrast to you, we do not believe everything that is read to us. That distinguishes us from you, thank God. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! – Yes, I tell you, there were two... [[Abg. Krainer: “one-digit” percentage range does not mean 1, but 1 to 9!]] One out of a hundred, you're right, in another passage was about the single-digit area. - Good. The fact is, ladies and gentlemen – and we are now again unfortunately – that there was a good era of Justice Ministers, from party-independent Justice Ministers, from Foregger to Michalek to Böhmdorfer and Gastinger, who have made judicial policy for the citizens and not for any ideologists and ideologies, ladies and gentlemen. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] Now, at once, these boxes come out again – Klubobmann Westenthaler has said it, and your nervousness shows that I am right – where we have to ask the fundamental question again, ladies and gentlemen – and here we distinguish ourselves – Dear colleague Parnigoni, we are not talking about transport policy or other, but about justice, and there is just a fundamental distinction. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What you have made available to politics is a bad story!]] Why does anyone become a criminal? – To do this, you and your left ideologists say: He's just a product of society. The society itself is guilty that it has become so and therefore must also bear the consequences itself, namely, the victims of crimes. That's your motto. Deduced from: Who carries the residual risk, for example, in the event of a relapse? Who carries the remaining risk if you release a criminal – you say that’s so great and important – due to the fact that he becomes arrears? Whether these are five or ten out of 100 is not so relevant. Who carries the residual risk? With you, society bears it because it is to blame for it. [[Abg. Krainer: Who carries the risk after holding?]] It's not the perpetrator, it's the company's fault that he's become guilty, so those who are guilty must also bear the residual risk. We, the Minister of Justice, are supposed to bear the residual risk of the perpetrators' fall back and not the society that has not been blamed. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That is why, ladies and gentlemen, does this principle have to be said – perhaps you will also speak now? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] Look, Mr Parnigoni, I'm almost as long in Parliament as you are. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You're too young for that!]] Almost that long. I'm not going to get you out of the concept if you're talking about something here that you hopefully know what it is, but you're not going to get me out of the concept either, you can still try to intercede here so often. And, colleague Krainer, you might be able to get a Vienna countryman out of the concept, but I certainly don't. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Back to justice policy, ladies and gentlemen: That is why it is not our goal to release a criminal as quickly as possible. If you say, Only in the event of a conditional dismissal can one still impose conditions. - Who says that? [[Federal Minister Dr. Berger: The law!]] The law! It's wonderful! We are the legislator here, ladies and gentlemen, after that we will amend the law in this way That is not true, there are also measures in place, for example, when instituting criminal offenders into an institution for mentally abnormal offenders, where measures can still be taken after the penalty has been committed. Of course that would be a measure! The culprit should pay the penalty due to him, especially in the sex criminal law, and then, of course, there are the conditions to go down to life-long conditions, because we simply want to prevent women or children from having to bear the residual risk of a relapse of this perpetrator in this area. This would be a proper judicial policy that we demand from you – in the interests of the righteous citizens and not always in the interests of the perpetrators. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's exactly what goes on when you say there's an overnighting in the detention centre. What's your recipe? - We release the perpetrators. Our recipe is not to release the perpetrators, but to create a new infrastructure, so that all those who are sentenced to prison can also pay them; also foreign offenders, Mrs. Justice Minister, say: [[Abg. May. Lap: You have locked the Jugendgerichtshof!]] It is a model to prove this with a ban on residence, and then they are released as a result of half the penalty and say they have to leave the country, otherwise they will be put back in prison. – I don’t think you’re so naïve, Mrs. Justice Minister, that you don’t know the reality. Mr Parnigoni, you also discussed at the time when it was about dealing with this question of how to carry out deportations. We have often discussed saying to the people: So, you now have a residence ban, you still have a few hundred schillings – then still, then Euro – where you buy a train ticket and go back to your home country. He took the money, said thank you, and immediately went to the nearest center where he could report, and drifted into the illegality. That's exactly what's going on, Mrs. Justice Minister. You can't go all serious and say, A model to deal with foreign offenders is to release them and tell them: You have to leave the country. - That's exactly what creates this uncertainty. We don't need to talk about general prevention. This is a general invitation for foreign offenders to be punished in Austria because nothing happens to them anyway. That's what we're asking you to do. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] When we talk about the conditions in prisons, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister for Justice: Of course, modern punishment, therapy, no question at all, is necessary. Prisoners should be treated decently, no question at all – but we also expect rigid controls accordingly. Not that then these rulers from the criminal cells still telephone mobile phones, organize their contacts, continue their business and thus prepare themselves for a life of freedom. There I could give you hundreds of cases in which there are still complaints about such things and in which these rulers continue to carry on their business – and nothing will be done. Mild for drug dealers is the last thing at all. People who care – just like the children’s children – for our children’s future to be taken into account with mildness, that’s really last-class, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you’re just thinking about something like that. In the other direction, there has to be a clear signal that these offenders, drug dealers – do you look at what this looks like, what kind of serious question you have – yes, what I put to this minister? [[Abg. Krainer: The opinions you make!]] [[Abg. Binder-Maier: What do you put in the mini-in?]] [[Abg. Krainer: The opinions you make!]] – That they care too little about the rights of children. That was once again your topic: that you care too little about how to protect the children from drug dealers. I would like to put that before you, and I would also like to accuse this Minister. There you can now yell from your place what you want. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] This would be an important measure: to ensure that you, together with us, prevent criminal offences, ensure that offenders receive the necessary punishment, and prevent anyone who is not absolutely safe from doing so, in various offences, especially in child abuses, from being able to return to freedom and endanger our children. “Praise protection against perpetrator support” should be the motto in a modern criminal law. At last leave your utopias from Broda’s time with the prisonless society! We all want this. We want no one to be imprisoned anymore, but then everyone must judge and stick to the laws. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] As long as this is not the case, put your utopia in the night box and in your section discussions, but here we are about protecting the population from criminal offenders.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14424	Mr Jarolim has been mentioned as the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14455	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I do not want to address the statements made by my two previous speakers. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Also a Broda student!]] Mr Westenthaler, there have been questions about how to become something. I think you might be able to make an additional contribution to the debate, because you are not, I believe, completely unaffected. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is the SPÖ Justice Officer!]] I would like to ask a brief question at the outset, Mr Scheibner, and this is unagitated. I would also like to thank the Federal Minister for this because she presented a concept in a very detailed and understandable way that is linked to Christian Broda, when the word “reason rather than simplicity” has shaped. I believe that this is only possible by approaching it with objective penetration. By the way, I would just like to say, perhaps also to those who do not know it and who are interested in it: Christian Broda was a Minister of Justice from 1959 to 1966 and from 1970 to 1983, and there was – and this is also a sign of the quality of the judicial debate – no major project that was not unanimously decided here in the House. This shows with what intensity, with what openness and with what interest to carry on social events together, has been worked at that time. [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I think before you adapt Broda, you should actually be aware of its size and then relativize it to what you are. [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] As you have now tried to bring more or less disinformation to the people: There is a statistics on the development of criminal proceedings. From 1992 to 1999, we have a falling number of criminal offences from 500,092 to 490,000 in total, i.e. all crimes, crimes and crimes. From the year 2000, we will have a dramatic development from 516 000 to 605,000, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are still proud of it!]] I would have expected you to take a position on the development that you had never seen before, namely on this rise in criminal offences, because that was your government, Mr Westenthaler. You were in the government yourself, and I think you really do not need to be proud of this development. I think you can say that here, too. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Today, when we talk about the predecessor of the current Minister of Justice and about the sensibleness of measures, I think, we must also mention what happened there; something that was anything but meaningful. The Minister mentioned it. The blocking of the Jugendgerichtshof, namely that institution, which was Europe-wide the model of the integration of juvenile offenders with the lowest rate of relapse across Europe, shows that there was no interest in reality at all here. [[Abg. Parnigoni: But he was there too, the Westenthaler!]] Mr. Westenthaler was there. I don't know if he understood what it's all about, I don't think. You've got to count that on him. In this respect, one must thank the Minister on the one hand, on the other hand also the coalition partner, for the creation of this European institution with this new model. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Perhaps it's still a memory, because you always forget that, ladies and gentlemen: We do not have the very best budgetary position, but the Minister has succeeded in negotiating a greater amount of investment. We – that is, Böhmdorfer – without anyone ever asking for it, then locked up the Riemergasse, causing 250 million € to be needed by the super-white construction of the justice tower that no human needs. Of course, the money is still missing today. If you, ladies and gentlemen, or Mr Westenthaler now call for an increase in the number of judicial officers in your question and address this more or less than an appeal to the government or to the Minister of Justice, then I really do not understand – we have heard that you have the wrong papers with which to use them. They have prepared themselves – what this appeal is supposed to be, because it has already been carried out in itself. Thank God for a long time the staff stand has been increased for the first time, and Otto Pendl will certainly, in his inimitable way, point out the quality of this decision that we are doing what is necessary, namely increasing the staffing level, because we simply need it. The call for – this has remained away from the other inaccuracies in space today – more punishments, higher punishments, away from any materiality, every cause – If I take into account how I protect people from sexual offences, of course I also have to take into account that the vast majority in the immediate environment is happening and one has to deal with it very carefully. This means not simply responding with the call “You must increase the penalties”, but looking at it very carefully and sensitively and reacting in the individual case. Therefore, we also welcome the extension of the peer review centre for sexual offenders to an assessment and assessment body for violent and sexual offenders, since even in the execution agencies with expertise is already being worked on what you are calling for for in the future, namely, consultation with the offenders, so that there can no longer be a relapse. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this is also the idea behind the package that Mrs Minister has presented – and it is not presented in any way in specialist circles as a security package. It contains a number of highly respected international proposals, partly also successfully practised. We all know that, for example, non-profit work is a real success story instead of a replacement sentence, instead of punishment as a whole. Since you mentioned Switzerland today: In Switzerland – with a much more intensive programme of non-profit work – there is a very, very low relapse rate. – That is why it is to be described as the right way for Mrs Bundesminister Berger. A short while ago, in the direction of those who believe that the construction of prison homes alone would improve something: In the U.S., to mention this very briefly, there are 700 prisoners in the population of 100,000; in Canada, 100 are in the population of 100,000. And no one's gonna say it's very unsafe in Canada. You, Mr. Westenthaler, have been reserved to make a nine-fold pre-punished person your bodyguard – and because you knew of the tendency of violence, because you knew that the risk of a relapse is very high, you have done so. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You'll have to correct that because that's wrong!]] You, Mr Westenthaler, abused this person and misused the victims of sexual offenders for your cheap populism, as we have seen today. Actually, you should be ashamed – as long as you still have time in here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14586	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14607	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, particularly Mr Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen of the BZÖ: Don't worry, because the ÖVP participation in this government coalition is the guarantee of security and the maintenance of law and order in our Republic. In this sense: no danger! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But to say clearly, ladies and gentlemen: Crime and crimes will not be mastered by false or empty words, but only by right actions. For us, right actions are the result of the ÖVP: consistent persecution of crimes, criminal offences and organised crime. For us, right actions also mean sufficient legal bases, but also resources, both human and material, for the police and for law enforcement authorities. In a few months, to give just one example here, the new provisions on criminal proceedings will enter into force, which we decided here in the House a few years ago, and these provisions will form an integral part of the Mr President, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President of the Commission, for his excellent report. However, right action also means strengthening the capacities of the courts – and, of course, of course, the expansion of judicial institutions, but above all, strengthening and providing assistance to colleagues in the judicial service, who are sometimes forgotten, those colleagues who make a serious and dangerous job every day in the interests of the security of our country. But right deeds for us also mean: measures to reduce relapse frequency and improve resocialisation. It should not be forgotten either. There are, of course, quite different opinions in this government on these points, there are discussions that we will still have to discuss; I can also express this openly here. While our government partner and also Mrs Berger from the beginning – and I have therefore publicly criticized this – the aspect of prison relief, i.e. the discharge of prisons, is the most important aspect of the Austrian People's Party's Party's security of the population and security gain through such measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But there were also very fruitful discussions about this – and I am convinced that we are also on the right track. We from the Austrian People's Party, in order to say this clearly, do not give ourselves to the illusion of a prisonless society, as the former Minister of Justice Broda, who has already been glorified several times today, but, if necessary, we of the ÖVP also stand for the expansion of prisons when independent courts find such penalties necessary. In this sense, I am also very pleased, Mrs Minister of Justice, that you have been building another prison in Vienna in the last few days. District, have announced. We are convinced, ladies and gentlemen, that we must not send false signals to repeaters and organised crime. In Austria, it must be clear to all “commercial” criminals, who come to us from abroad too, that they are persecuted and punished with the full hardness of the law. It must be clear to the population and also to the weakest in society – especially the families, the women, the children – that protection must be guaranteed and guaranteed by law. This is a matter of violence in the family, especially children who often suffer from the consequences of such crimes for their lives. For all these reasons, including the address of today's questioner, in the sense and in the service of the security of the citizens of Austria, this sensitive issue of justice, as well as in recent years, should not be used as a political change of small and medium-sized enterprises, but we should all work together to work together and finally implement meaningful measures. This also includes, of course, an objective approach to various measures, which are already included in the package discussed today. I think it is wrong to reject or not accept important measures for purely party policy or day-to-day policy reasons, for example the obligations provided for in this reform package in the future. For all cases of a conditional dismissal, or from our point of view, the general referral of the evaluation body for sexual and violent crimes prior to redundancies; a point which we could claim from the ÖVP in the run-up to God was thanks to this reform package. In summary, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the common foreign and security policy must be: No mercy for incorruptible violent criminals and “commercial” criminals, but help and support for those who are willing and also strive accordingly to integrate themselves positively into society and find themselves on the right path. But at any rate – this is the clear foreign exchange of us from the Austrian People's Party –: Priority to the security of citizens in the face of an indiscriminate opening of prison gates! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14705	Next, Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14726	Ladies and gentlemen! It is naïve and dangerous to believe that more detention brings more security. We have record numbers, currently over 9 000, we have few conditional arrests in the European comparison – and yet we have an increasing crime in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] These are numbers that even the BZÖ leads in his current urgency. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] So let's hold on: More prisoners obviously did not lead to a reduction in the rate of crime! As the BZÖ comes to the opposite conclusion, I remain enigmatic. In any case, reality does not last. [[Inter-calls at the BZÖ.]] You may even have to clean up a little with the romance of political rights that believes high prison sentences scare all the perpetrators – and those who don't let themselves be deterred we stop for a long time; then they come out as better people! Reality looks different. The execution of the penalty is in fact in a crisis. The Enforcement Act can no longer be fully implemented. We have declining and too few in-house job offers. Qualification measures in prisons do not work: There are 70 vocational school degrees per year in the Austrian prisons – this is extremely low and extremely weak. We no longer have a continuous separation of the groups of perpetrators. Although the implementation plans are partly drawn up, they cannot be implemented in reality. That is to say, we have a mere custody exercise, also due to the lack of staff. The staff there are trying to do the best possible, but there are too few staff. There has been a gradual reduction in staff from 2000 to 2006; there has been an increase in 2007, and 2008 is now again a reduction. Interesting – and that has already been tailor-made – I find the period from 2000 to 2006. At that time planning sites were dismantled. And we know who was in the government at the time: It was the orange blues. We know who put the Minister of Justice: It was the orange blues. And we know who at least sometimes was Clubobmann: That was Mr. Peter Westenthaler. You, your party bears the main responsibility for the execution of the sentence today in the crisis! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Where were you at that time?]] That is why it is quite obvious to call for the increase in the number of police stations! – But maybe you learn from your own mistakes. That would be a positive contribution at least once. [[Abg. Scheibner: From you we will learn a lot more! That's what I see!]] What we need is a policy that protects against dangerous perpetrators, but more security is guaranteed by a lower relapse rate. And I'm asking you: What do the resulting detention and voluntary non-profit work have in common? – They both have a lower relapse rate than in prison. That is why this is a sensible way to go. We need a gradual release preparation. This begins with the social training, which goes into freeways, half-prisony, and then the support of the conditional release. We need the resulting dismissal because this is the only way to continue to care for the perpetrators in freedom through the aid. And that's exactly what reduces the risk of relapse. And the numbers speak a clear language – even if you claim the opposite in your request. There is a study in which the relapse rate of robbers has been studied: Due to a conditional redundancie, the withdrawal rate is 43 percent, according to the BZÖ's ideas – the detention is excluded – results in a 65 percent decline rate. And then there's something like an inner Austrian field attempt. You know, in the West there are more conditional redundancies than in the East. Yes, please, I'll ask you: Where is the security risk in the West, where is the crime rate in the West higher than in the East? The resulting dismissal is not a grace, but, if it allows individual prognosis and behaviour in execution, a sensible measure that offers three benefits: the incentive to join during detention; the incentive to join after detention; and the possibility of after-care for instructions. What is the alternative? What does the BZÖ want? – No conditional redundancies, so no aftercare, and that means a high likelihood of relapse. As you have addressed the openings: There is also a very interesting number. – By the way, the case quoted by you was not a release, that was an exit; but that obviously makes no difference for you. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That makes no difference for the victim, too, Mr. Colleague! For the victim, that's totally what it was!]] Between 1999 and 2003, the number of releases doubled. I personally consider openings to be an important and adequate means. But from 1999 to 2003, the number of releases doubled. And now we can play it down again, who was in the government, who was the Minister of Justice and who was the clubman at that time. That's what we're saving, we know. It only shows how doubling your policy is. [[Congratulation with greens and SPÖ.]] On sexual offences: You always discuss with the BZÖ. The BZÖ then says: We represent the victims because we are elected by the victims! – That’s what you have to say: Outside of Carinthia, you don't represent anyone because you're not elected outside of Carinthia. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens and SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very superlative! – You were once too...! They were at 4 percent for many years!]] But if you look away from this little thing, you have to look at it carefully: We know – and this has already been mentioned by Mr Jarolim – that 80 percent of sexual offences are committed in the family sector. And there, the experts say, the increase in the criminal framework would have the opposite effect because there is a great shyness to show the father, the uncle, the brother. You have to think about it all the time. On the other hand: You can demand longer prison sentences, but eventually the offender will come back to freedom – except you want for all life-long; that's only so far with genocide. I don't know, maybe this is the next step to get media attention with even louder screams. But eventually a sexual offender comes into freedom, and then the crucial question is: [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: When it comes to us, don't!]] What happens then? I think we need three measures: We need a comprehensive culprit therapy. This has nothing to do with grace, but it is active protection for potential future victims. And here, too, you have to hold on: The relapse rate is significantly lower in therapeutic sexual offenders. Without therapy, we have a relapse rate of 10 to 25 percent, with therapy below 10 percent. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I believed only one in a hundred!]] [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. Scheibner.]] But I can also tell you a story about your past government. Perhaps the association "Limes" will tell you something. The association "Limes" is an association that works with juvenile sexual offenders. He had to lock up during your Justice Ministry because he didn't get any promotions! – So looks [[Abg. Oils: That's what it looks like!]] Your active policy! And to all your demands there is a story from your time of government! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] What else do we need? – Of course, we need sexual offenders, where there is an uncertain forecast, a follow-up through the probation aid. This could guarantee that professional bans, which are actually necessary in a certain segment, can also be controlled by means of probation aid, and can also be controlled in the voluntary environment in which a person moves. And one last point we need: We need an extension of limitation periods. One thing I do not understand is that someone who commits a rape is indirectly favoured with a ten-year limitation period. There's a lot to be said about government work. There was now a lot of media justice entertainment available: The Minister for Justice has presented something, and the ÖVP's Judge-General said: You only distribute sugars to criminals, you should take care of something else! – Now there are obviously proposals that need to be examined. The fact is: What has happened so far was too little. What the BZÖ wants is dangerous, because you are preoccupied with simple proposals solutions that do not bring anything, do not make our country safer and thus deceive the Austrians in their safety needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14899	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), who - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14931	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear callers! This is an issue that every Parliament will certainly deal with every legislative period again and again and with new approaches. And it's a luxury to try to do – which I send myself to do – to get away from the polemics and bring in a seriality note. How do I put it on? – By trying to compile the building blocks according to their logical contents. Don't mix two things: These are, on the one hand, the criminal catalogue, which may or may not be present in the criminal code and in secondary laws or, on the other hand, probably or safely, criminal consequences for the fulfilment of the criminal record, i.e. the criminal framework, and, on the other hand, the element of enforcement law. First of all: It is certainly justified and gives reason enough – in the form of new insights – to use a reform screw on the previously used content of the criminal catalogue. For example: It is not new, but it is time and again to stress that we have a serious misunderstanding between the legal consequences in the field of property offences and in the area of body injury. At the time, there was an old Supreme Court President, who was not known by God for mildness, but rather the opposite, but he once expressed in the courses the very memorable sentence: The cheapest in Austria is human meat. – So: Woe, it steals a 50,000 s, then he was in prison for a few years. But serious body injury with everything around and around, well, if you get away a little bit well, then that's half or three-quarters of a year. This has been going through Austrian criminal justice for years and decades. It would be time to make a change on these criteria. There is also the famous East-West gap: Traffic accidents under heavy body injury lead to a prison sentence in the East, but not in the west of Austria. This leads me to another view, Mrs. Federal Minister. It is always said a little bit like that short prison sentences are missing the purpose or purpose of the sentence. I'll allow you to stop that from happening. It is just too typical for the crime type of the traffic accident offender with alcohol – disco and so on, and drink a little about the thirst – that the short sentence – four, six, seven, eight weeks – is very, very, very effective. So I warn you that with a generalization effect, it is considered inappropriate. Of course, the six-week prison sentence is of no use to a hard-ass guy, but it depends on the type of crime. In addition: There is no “right romance” to assume that more prisoners would mean more security. – Sorry, this is nonsense because it affects a principle of criminal justice per se: This is the aspect of general prevention or special prevention. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Many authors doubt the sense of general prevention at all because each subjectively determined perpetrator is always convinced that he is not caught. This is exactly the social trap in which criminal justice is in principle. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Like it is always worthwhile – now a luxury that I allow myself to do by pointing it out – to build a little historical thinking into what you're talking about. We are currently in a kind of missing-link ratio: Criminal law as a prison law is very short in legal history. It starts only at the beginning of the 19th century. ==References== Previously, the prison was only the place of detention until the death sentence was executed. And in 200 years, people will laugh about us the same way. Probably then there will be chemical interventions or electrochemical, mechanical things in the brain to extract the criminal energy. [[Abg. May. Steinhauser: Well, hopefully not!]] But that's future music. Put to the point: The core of the right of enforcement must be to have victim protection and social protection on its content. And it must not be done with the lawn mower method, but with a specially adapted response of criminal justice care to the act. And a last sentence: Half of all Austrian residents are foreigners. I repeat my proposal, which I have already made some places: I believe that this is also an EU problem. At EU level, non-EU citizens should be accommodated in a place to be defined. If that succeeds, we will no longer have half of the people living in Austria as a burden in the domestic prisons. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e14995	Mrs Haubner is now speaking. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15016	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I would have expected in your lecture on answering our questions as a politician at least one sentence that, I believe, would have been very important: that offences, sexual offences and abuse of children are among the most serious crimes and that you see here a constant need for action so that these crimes do not happen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I would have expected this from a Minister of Justice, because, given the repeated annual cases of child abuse and a much higher darkness, as we know, there is a need for massive action. I think it's too little that when we learn again that children have become victims, we have to say sorry in daily reports, but we have to do everything we can to reduce these terrible acts on our children and so that we can prevent them, because a psychiatrist once said: Abuse of children is a murder of councils. – And this murder on councils must be avoided as much as possible. It must therefore be done in the form of support when children have become victims, but also – and I say so quite clearly, and that is not populist, and that is not real-life, and that is not somehow romantic –: No excuse and no tolerance to the perpetrators! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] For us from the BZÖ, Mrs Federal Minister, three areas are very important. First: Everything to invest in the education of the parents, but also the children, so that the children become strong and so that they also report the smallest attacks themselves and say that something is wrong. Financial resources for the good jobs, the victim counsellors, child protection centres, intervention agencies are very important and necessary, but also something else – and I am curious that no one needs action because of this case in the public school here in Vienna, where a six-year-old girl has been abused. No one sees need for action! The President of Vienna City School Council said she had no need for action. I haven't heard from you, Mrs. Justice Minister, either. We have therefore made a request that, as part of the training of teachers on this issue – violence and its consequences – the teachers should be better informed about it, but we have also submitted a request for effective access controls to public schools. I think we should do that. We should all be busy and not go back to the agenda. The second is victim aid, and in this respect appears to be in the government's programme that a great deal should be done for victim aid. You, Mrs. Justice Minister, also said that a lot had been done in your term of office. I would like to hear the details of what happened here. One thing I would like to say: In the last government, among the ministers of justice who were then in office, the problem of victims has come into the criminal proceedings considerably. This victim is a real and important step for those who have become victims, for example, process support, free legal assistance or the right to gentle treatment, and very often this is children and young people. I think, however, that the best protection for our children and young people is also the perpetrators who do not fall back again. Therefore, I believe, it is necessary to treat the perpetrators too, during detention – not to release them early and then to treat them, but during detention. And I think the resources should also be invested here. I also expect you, Mrs. Justice Minister, to introduce minimum penalties, which are particularly applicable to child abuses, minimum penalties of, for example, ten years for sexual offenders, and that sexual offenders can also make no easy criminal action and no grounds for mitigating them. This is necessary and important, because it is very often so that these perpetrators, when they are first perpetrators, are unchallenged and these reasons for mitigating are then borne. [[OBJECTIVES]] And that can't be. I also hope that the two applications, which have been decided by the four parties here, will be implemented quickly in respect of the professional ban on sexual criminals, but also on the sexual offence file. It was here in Parliament that we had a first report on 1. September promised – today we have 17th. October. So I also see here a disdain for our parliamentary initiatives, and I ask that we put a little more pressure here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, we from the BZÖ will not let go of that! We want comprehensive and effective measures to protect our children. We do not want political change, but we all have responsibility for our society, for our youth and for our children. That must apply to all of us: not look away, but look, act instead of talk. And if there is action in the field of prevention, victim aid, but also in terms of the level of punishment for perpetrators, we are also your allies from the BZÖ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15099	Mrs Stadlbauer's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15120	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to say something to Mr Haubner: If you say that it is so important for the BZÖ to expand the victim protection facilities and to increase the number of victims, then I have to raise a little awareness of what it was like when you put the ministers. [[Abg. Ursula Haubner: Family advice!]] What did Mr. Böhmdorfer do? – He just wanted to starve the victim protection facilities financially. He questioned whether it was even useful for all of us to have them, and wanted to use some roof bandage to eliminate the others. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Family advice!]] Thanks to this, God did not succeed because there were several years of contracts and therefore he could not simply erase them. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On point two, that the issue of victims under your ministry has come into the criminal proceedings, I must say: This may be a formal vote, but I was a member of this subcommittee at the time. If it had happened after your Minister Böhmdorfer, nothing would have happened at all, which would have contributed to the improvement of the rights of victims, quite the contrary: This has only succeeded because the NGOs have put the corresponding pressure on us and we have supported it in the opposition – at that time the Greens and the SPÖs. [[Abg. Scheibner: “Of course”!]] - Of course! I know, because there I was: That's how it was. [[Abg. Oils: Yes! Very right!]] It's really a joke to say that's what Böhmdorfer and Gastinger did! This has to be remedied once. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: At that time the opposition had...!]] As with this example, today we are again experiencing a very worrying process, a political procedure of the BZÖ: In the urgent request, unscrupulous information is given, partly also serious information. But the whole thing is mixed, fears are startled, mooded and, above all, tries to dust off politically, without helping those affected – and I mean first and foremost the victims. This means, for example, that the BZÖ in the request – and I think this is a special treat, and that is why I would like to quote it – that “through a greater distinction” “the possibility of resocialisation between different groups of offenders” – the BZÖ distinguishes since between professional criminals and concerned citizens – “returns can be better avoided”. I think that's where the experts are now. [[Abg. Scheibner: These are you!]] The question is: Who then distinguishes between black and white, between the good offenders – I suppose these are the troubled citizens – and the bad offenders? I suppose you call the professional criminals that way. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You are experts!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you also distinguish between first fathers...!]] Maybe you? You from BZÖ? [[Abg. Scheibner: Criminal law, Mrs Colleague!]] I think that would be a pretty dangerous way. I think you have to look at the whole thing much more differentiated. And I think that we need to try to resocialize all the perpetrators in principle. By the way, that is the task of the execution of the sentence anyway. So we can't get out of the house like this You want that! – exclude a certain group. What you're demanding is simple and just a security risk. You can't let that happen. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are primers!]] It is of no use to the victims in particular if the perpetrators are still detained longer and longer and longer, for demanding punishments and ever harder punishments alone, the evil does not take root. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What's the use of the victim then?]] That's the unsavory thing about your statements. With this request, which is available, you prove once again that you can only deal populistly with the issue of sex criminal law and do not achieve anything positive with it. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's the best thing you can say about it!]] We know very well and have already heard from some that criminals who are being treated have a much lower relapse rate. That must be our goal: to stop the relapse. We can't do this with the implementation of the parole: ‘Life-long must remain for life’. Because “life has to stay for life” means that this is the way to incalculable prisoners, because they can’t lose anything because they don’t have a perspective anymore. It can't be that you really demand it. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... when you're locked away!]] [[Further calls for Members of FPÖ and BZÖ.]] We achieve a lower relapse rate only with accompanying measures. – The worst thing is that you are now calling back so much in between and not getting to know what would really lead to low relapse rates. But I say it again: During detention there must be therapies and after the arrest there must be a care or some kind of judicial supervision for sexual offenders, which would again speak for premature dismissal, because care is always guaranteed. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: If you listen to a family whose child has been disgraced!]] We definitely need more therapists and therapists, more psychologically trained staff for the care of the perpetrator, but also for the care of the victims. And I think it's very, very important to take measures to reduce the darkness of sexual offences. Victims must also have the opportunity and the courage to repay ad. To that end, we must support and support the victims. And that – and that's the big difference! – works by the Federal Minister Maria Berger. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As one of her first measures, Mrs Bundesminister Berger called for a comprehensive package of victim protection. She has also been referring to what it includes. And she has also announced, among other things, an intensification in the event of long-term violence – and sexual offences often fall in there. It is logical, however, that this cannot be implemented from today to tomorrow, but that work is being done on it. I think you should support the Minister in this if it is your concern to fight sexual offences. But with the insatiable attacks that we have experienced today, just block and distract from the real problems. Furthermore, I would refer to the March 2007 motion for a resolution by ÖVP and SPÖ, which called for, among other things, one to look at, how the penalties are pronounced for crimes against body and life and other property offences. I can remember that too. I also know from my own experience that your wife Minister Gastinger was more than deaf on this ear. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is not my minister!]] - Good. I believe, however, that the Minister Gastinger has turned away from you and not vice versa. Now you'll do it the other way around. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's meaty, but it wasn't my minister!]] The fact is, she never wanted that. I have not just pointed out to them that it would be important to evaluate this. Here again we see a difference: If the political will is there when reasonable judicial policy is made, then there is also a lot going on in the interests of the victims. I really find the way in which the BZÖ operates the opposition policy. They were in the government for seven years. [[Abg. Oils: Long years!]] For seven years you have been inactive, have allowed that there is an ODP single government, and have nothing of what you demand today to implement in any way. [[Abg. Grill: That was a good time!]] I would also like to remind you of today's children's money debate. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You already know who introduced the child money!]] So you should sit quietly on your opposition benches and think little about what you have done over the past seven years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15443	The next item is Mrs Franz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15464	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It's really our job to protect children from criminal offenders, from sexual offenders, from child abuse. And we have everything to do with the fact that they also receive the necessary punishment and that there is no repeat offences. It is about safety, especially for children – and this has to be a special concern for us. I come from a community with about 2,000 inhabitants, and there was a case of child injury a few years ago. As a stepfather, a respected man has sexually abused the daughters of his second wife, which, of course, leads to a huge uproar in the Community has led beyond the community, because the media have also accompanied the whole story. It's clear: In a small community everyone knows. There's been a lot of insults. The rumor kitchen was bubbling. The call was huge. The result: The culprit had to sit for three months and was released. You can imagine that the outrage of the population, which, in turn, was very, very great. No one has understood that violence in the family, sexual violence against 12-year-old girls is not punished higher. Remember that these children are traumatized, sometimes suffer severe psychological damage and often suffer for a lifetime. Not only in this case, but also in various decisions of judicial and investigational authorities, the impression may now be that the assessment of crimes is too mild, insufficient and therefore unsatisfying. Above all, the danger potential of the perpetrators is also assessed very differently. The Criminal Change Act of 1996 and 2001 and, to a particular extent, the Criminal Change Act of 2004 have already laid down measures to combat the sexual exploitation of children and adolescents until the completion of the 18th century. To make life-years more punishable. In doing so, the legislator has made it clear that he wants to see a more stringent criminal aggressment of sexual offences. Unfortunately, the courts have often failed to take this issue into account. Children deserve the special protection of our society because they are our highest good. It is therefore necessary to step up efforts against child abuse and also to consider the issue of relapse prevention. Now we all know that there is a conditional discharge, which represents a certain risk potential; we have already heard of it. And the current case in a Vienna folk school shows us that clearly. If we make changes in this area, then the main objective must be to reduce the risk of relapse. This is to be achieved through instructions and greater involvement of parole aid. In the future, therefore, the granting of an instruction should be preventive from relapse, for example, an instruction to undergo therapy. However, the actual effects of conditional redundancies must also be evaluated when changes to the legal framework are made. This requires a specific crime-related, not just a general relapse statistics – and this should be done very quickly, after all, in the government agreement. As this urgent request also mentions the case of Kampusch, it is urgently necessary to implement a penalty for long-term and painful restrictions of freedom, but also for heavy violence. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But stand inside with us! That's what we want!]] ==References====External links== A resolution by Mr Fekter and Mr Jarolim on these important demands was decided on March this year to carry out an in-depth evaluation of sexual offences, to implement a recruitment statistics and a relapse statistics provided for in the government programme, and also to establish criminal penalties. In the course of the budget debate, there has also been a four-party request for a professional ban on sexual offenders, and this is also very important. The fact that people with pedophile tendencies are also seeking professionally the proximity to their possible victims has been proved. It is therefore necessary to prohibit the professional activity of such persons with children, so that there is no risk of repetition. In order to protect children, a sexual criminal file must be introduced which forms the basis of restrictions in vocational training. This sexual offender file should be located in the Ministry of the Interior and have the following content: The purpose is to store legally condemned sexual offenders with place of residence, with DNA, with Tathergang and risk assessment, to provide automatic advice on any redundancie by the judiciary, to automatically report the change of residence to the security authorities and further conditions. The fight against sexual offenders, against child abuse, is a personal concern to me, because it is primarily about children who urgently need the special protection of our society. Whoever breaks laws to cause children untold suffering and hardly to repair, must expect consistent persecution and severe punishment. I call for greater protection of victims and the rapid establishment of the sexual offence file, because data protection must not be used to protect perpetrators.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15501	The next item is Mrs Zwerschitz's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15522	Madam President. High house! When it comes to children, it is always about a subject that affects all of us. I would like to make it clear to all of us here in the house that we are certainly not concerned with legitimizing or apologizing any acts against children. I would also like to point this out, if it is somehow swinging in the room, once again. It is, of course, about protecting the children. The question of the BZÖ is not about the protection of children, but about the persecution of the perpetrators. It's every single case a tragedy, we all know: It's bad for the kids, it's bad for the family, it's bad for the environment! That's right. But what ideas do you have to protect these children? You have the idea that if you lock them out, the others will probably not do anything. They are the ones who say: The family is the most important, the family is the highest good, and only the family can protect us! And precisely in the family there are most offences that are located in this area, exactly in the family happens most because people like you overshadow the families with their demands on how the healing world à la FPÖ, à la BZÖ should work. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They require women to stay at home with their children, that parents take responsibility for their children constantly, that they work out their pension rights at the same time. You are not willing to do something against poverty, you are not willing to do something for people to better integrate here, that people are less tempted to commit thefts, not only to act, because they simply don't understand that they can't do anything, but because they also need the money. You are the ones who are very much promoting with your behaviour that the conditions are such that crime must rise automatically in certain areas, although I may say: [[Intrusion of the Abg. Disc]] Depending on the period of time you look at, the level of punishment is, the crime cases have either increased or even fallen in the meantime. It always depends on how you look at it from the beginnings of the year. This is in itself a floating area where there will never be the same number next year. Youths and children are particularly affected – that is true – and they are in two ways: Youths and children are also perpetrators. They were the ones – we have heard this many times now, but I would nevertheless like to strengthen it – that have abolished the children's and youth court that has existed since the turn of the century. They were the ones who meant: We don't need any extra treatment for young people, we don't need to see that young people have any opportunity. Youths should be punished as much as everyone else. – And now you are the ones who are still in favour of a criminal offence that happens in the youth age landing in the pre-punity register and burdening young people for their future. On the other hand, we are in favour of making sense to do a lot of non-profit work in this area, to bring young people to see their actions they have committed and to make them up again through the compensation of punishment. But they absolutely want everyone to be locked up, to build walls – as high as possible – and that no one ever comes out again. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your representatives have called for us to be imprisoned!]] What do we have if people who can't pay for their punishment have to place a replacement sentence in prison? – We don't have any of that at all. It can only be useful here if, instead, non-profit work is done; then perhaps others would once work and less civilian servants would be exploited. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I think it's absolutely right if you try to minimize the penalties with the perpetrator's compensation. The situation in prisons is a horror especially for young people. They only make it possible for young people to continue growing into crime, because everything they have not yet known about criminal opportunities, they learn through this way of dealing in prison. It can't be that someone who has committed a crime as a youth will be detained until the end of his life. Of course, it is important to make therapies, make arrests, make probation aid. These are important measures, but precisely in the area will be saved. Where else is saved – and this is the only part I can understand in your request –: It is saved from prison staff, and not from those who monitor, who control, but in many prisons, psychologists, therapists, social workers are already missing. We would urgently need this to help children and young people too. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But now continue to protect the children. . Madam President, Mr Haubner meant that it was just too little thought about what we could do in schools now because we had this case, which you all certainly know. As a former teacher, I can't welcome the proposal to close schools now, everything with a security gate, because a way to open the schools is to have a lot of people there. [[Abg. Scheibner: The children will be very happy that you are now in the National Council!]] Most cases happen, as said, not in schools, but in families. And you will never be able to create any laws that protect against any case and from any possibility. You know that as well as we do, and the whole polemic doesn't help. Prevention measures at schools, such as the action “My Body Belongs to Me, ” strengthen the children, thereby learning to say no when they are confronted with such a thing. That's important, something like that is strengthened. I can also, as I would like to mention, a picture of how it is drawn by the BZÖ, that Austria is at risk and that there are numerous offenders, even in the youth sector, as Minister Platter described with his “keep clean – youth okay!” campaign, I cannot understand this picture of numerous potential offenders in Austria. And I am very glad that we will therefore not need these measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15598	The next item is the speech by Mr Vilimsky. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15619	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, don't be so angry with the Minister of Justice – she has done something really good today, yes, something impeccable: She has also read beautifully the answers that a ministerial officer has brought to her paper. And this is one thing that needs a certain appreciation here too. [[Abg. May. Lap: Haha!]] But if one tries to judge the matter materially and from the content, this is all but funny, because we have a federal government here, where on the one hand the Minister of Justice is trying to put the criminals on the street due to the overcrowded prisons, and on the other hand, the Minister of Transport is trying to bring the transport sinners who have a little “pressed on the tube” into prison. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz:... the Federal Chancellor!]] This is a policy that is to be rejected! This is a policy that does not correspond to the rule of law of a tax-paying Austrian public! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, with a shot of humor thought: Let us be glad that the matter is not yet a law, because otherwise your high party chairman, Alfred Gusenbauer, the “Sandkass Chancellor” who once said in James Bond manner: “My name is Gusenbauer, Alfred Gusenbauer”, and since perhaps a little bit of a speed has developed and only recently at 200 km/h with his driver on the motorway would be affected. If this law were already legal, we would at least risk that he and his chauffeur are now behind Swedish curtains and perhaps a Nigerian drug dealer on the other hand “represent” the place. [[Cheerfulness and applause at the FPÖ.]] Fun aside – let’s look at what the problem is in fact! The prisons in Austria are half of people with non-Austrian citizenship. Now one could come to the idea that immigrants who have come to us would in principle have a higher criminal energy than is the case with Austrian citizens. That's absurd, of course, not like that, but: For years, over many years, you have lived a policy where you have positioned Austria as a country in which there was little police, ever lower punishments. And now we are experiencing the highlight: Criminals get a 50 - percent “ off discount ” on their punishment! They are allowed to spend half of their punishment on a free footing somewhere because the prisons are full, because you are no longer masters of unrestricted immigration and, after the almost invitation to international crime, can no longer follow these in Austria accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mrs. Minister, what about your plan when the Islamic terrorist is doing an attack here and in the course of the course of the course of her generous offer, if he commits himself to leaving the country? – I would say: Pfoh!, who will be very impressed, leaves the country with 50 percent penalty discount and continues to Germany, Italy or France. – This is a policy that can no longer be overcome by absurdity! This policy must be rejected, we also say a threefold no! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, there was no such thing as early dismissal at all. It has good reason for judges to impose certain penalties here. And the legislator is also concerned about why certain punishments have a certain framework. And there is no way of pursuing a policy that, just because the prisons are full, the persons concerned with half the term of punishment or lower fines are put back on their feet. Nor can the argument be that we have too few prisons. The solution is a simple: Instead of putting people on a free footing, it would be good if we were to set up new prisons so that the Austrian rule of law is actually lived, and so that it is possible that those who have a judicial sentence can also punish them from the first to the last day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Austria is a small country, but we have a lot of green space, many mountains. In the area of asylum, Swiss people have the model of reducing incentives, which make their asylum care centres somewhere in "high air". This would also be a model for building prisons in Austria, building container villages to at least ensure that those who have behaved here are behind Swedish curtains from the first day to the last day. The following are also to be addressed: The care of a prisoner costs the Austrian taxpayer 100 € a day. And there cannot be the solution that we are setting the prisoners free, but the solution can only be that we are thinking about requiring those people who are spending their punishment in Austria, and where we do not yet have the opportunity to ensure that they are given a prison sentence in their countries of origin and countries of origin, to do work so that the Austrian taxpayers are least taxed. This would be a policy in the interest of Austrian taxpayers, and not a good-human thinking that is not acceptable. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Someone has once brought this motto of “sweating instead of sitting” into the debate. I think it was Mrs Gastinger's minister, where you no longer know where she belongs. Should be. The motto, however, cannot be “sweating instead of sitting” where people are stopped early for any work, the motto for these people can only be: “Sweating and sitting”! That's the decisive thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is unacceptable that a policy is now being pursued in Austria, which is heading in the direction of creating here a "wellness package" situation for strikers and putting them back on foot after half the term of punishment. There is a threefold no for this, we reject that! We have not thought that this government, as it is now installed, can be even worse than the past, but that it is actually even worse, you have proved with your current policy. That is why we are committed to bringing you back as a government as quickly as possible and to selecting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15711	Mr Dolinschek. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15733	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Arrest Cells in Austria are full. It is thought to move criminals to neighbouring countries and to arrest them there. Wherever it is possible, one can do it, no question, but everywhere it is not possible. The fact is that half the number of inmates of the Austrian prisons is persons of foreign origin. That should make us think. This should be especially for the Greens, because the more we welcome, the more we get in, the more we open everything in all areas, the more of course there is also the risk that criminals and those who we do not want to have so much come to us, people who risk security in Austria, whether in the context of violent offences or of invading crimes and so on. In fact, we do not want to have such persons, and we have to put a bar on such conditions. Since I was here in this House – and this has always been since 1990 – we have always been committed to giving the victim all the help, and that we have to deal with the perpetrators with hardness. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Bundesminister Berger, you said it was an objective to reduce the number of relapses. That's your opinion, too. The number of relapses should be reduced. The subjects belong to therapy, belong to treatment. This is especially true for child abusers: These are sick people who have to be treated. But they must not be free – they must be treated! This is the only important thing in this area. Instead of imposing a short term of imprisonment, I think we should consider, for example, whether it would be more sensible, as the Swiss say: ‘Sweating instead of sitting’. Mrs Stadlbauer, you asked what our ministers had actually done at this time. – Mrs Colleague, it is too little to show pity for victims of crime, but it is a matter of taking people's need for protection seriously. Victim protection must not only be a keyword, but also a criminal process reform law that we have to implement with 1. ==References====External links== Remember in this context: Here, people who have been exposed to physical, mental, sexual violence and also their relatives and relatives of killed persons will be actively involved in criminal proceedings. You have a right to information on the subject-matter of the procedure, rights in the proceedings: information on appropriate victim protection facilities, understanding of the progress of the procedure, participation in the proceedings, presence in each party's public evidence, control, file inspection and gentle treatment of the victims. All this has been implemented over this period, Mrs Colleague! I would also like to say the following: At this time, associations have been promoted by the Federal Ministry of Justice, such as the TAMAR Advisory Centre for Abused and Sexually Abused Women and Girls in Vienna; the Advisory Office for Sexually Abused Girls and Young Women in Vienna, in Theobaldgasse; the Institute of Social Services, IfS Vorarlberg as a non-profit GmbH; the Association “Der Lichtblick”, Women’s and Family Advisory Centre, Obere Hauptstraße, Neusiedl am See; “Die Möwe”, independent association for physically, psychologically or sexually abused children in Vienna; the association “Women for Women” in Hollabrunn or the Kinderschutz-Zentrum Salzburg, help for children, teenagers and parents. – Everything implemented in our time! Or the “Weisser Ring” association, and there are a few more, Mrs. Colleague. In addition, it was Federal Minister Herbert Haupt, who also established a family and man-advisor office in the Social Ministry at that time, which was carried on by a woman Federal Minister Haubnerin. [[Rejoicing]] Take note of this!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15778	I would like to congratulate Mr Dolinschek on his gender-based speech. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Next speaker: Mr Pendl. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the 7 minutes; Total period of residence of the Group: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15809	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! A very serious and important issue is discussed here, and I believe it is therefore not suitable for cheap polemics, for untruths or half-truths. I believe that we are jointly required if we take it seriously to solve this problem too. For the sake of good order, it should be mentioned that your Minister Ofner Christian Broda has put up as a great reformer and judicial politician, and he was also, ladies and gentlemen, and we would be glad that Christian Broda would still make politics with us. And in all the tough discussions here, ladies and gentlemen, there was always a unanimous decision at the end of the day, without polemics. I would also like to make this clear once again. When we talk about it, ladies and gentlemen: Since 1983 – since 1983! – There was no Social Democratic Justice Minister until the Federal Minister Berger took office! It was mostly your ministers, Mr Scheibner, to say this in full clarity. As some issues have been raised today: I am really surprised, because in the meantime, a conditional discharge is a legal stock of decades, and the output is Uralist law. There are topics today as if you were entering New Zealand, but all of this I already know how many years. Ladies and gentlemen, you have discussed over your own decades here. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for being the first to recognize immediately after taking office, where the starting points are, and where justice policy, especially as regards the criminal part, must be dealt with. Ladies and gentlemen, you have left your own ministers to hang! Your last budget has been cut down on the last planning points of the Justice Department. The colleague Gastinger was very desperate, and you left her in the rain! We had an interesting debate at the time in the judicial committee and in the plenary session. So please don't pretend Mrs. Minister of Justice Berger is reinventing something here today! She's been the first one to realize where it's going for 23 years. Congratulations on this, and we should help her together if we are serious! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I beg you – we are in the High House! [[Call: Go?]] The case you keep describing, what happened in school: That was not a conditional release, but that was an outcome – old law stock with us, please! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: It doesn't matter!]] That's the way it is! And that's what I'm looking at, my colleague, if you... [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: What can the child do for it?! Exit or conditional dismissal, that doesn't matter! A scandal, this argument! That's for the child whether it's an exit or a conditional release!]] I do not want to know how you would react if you had been acquitted, but an authority would take you into a cartel after a legitimate acknowledgment! I ask you to consider at least the quality of this discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We cannot continue to hold serious debates with cheap polemics. I think you have to say that in all clarity. It has already been expressed today: You lock a port, make fun of our concerns, and today you think it's a new Minister of Justice who immediately said: We need the new construction of a judicial institution in Vienna! That's where I have to say: Bravo! You have suppressed and forgotten everything that happened here a few months ago and one, two years ago. Dear friends, you have one of the most modern, internationally recognized Jugendgerichtshof with best results after long discussions, even here just nothing saves me, you nothing, and all our arguments regarding the transfer of young people to the most burdened execution facility in Vienna, all of our arguments and all the arguments of the professionals have come to you, that didn't interest you! The staff have been reduced in the budget, the judicial board and the special services have been left in the rain. That's the truth! And today, the new Minister of Justice – I hope, together with us – has to try to rebuild what you have broken in the interests of humanity and human dignity in a manageable period of time. Mrs Bundesminister Berger, my warmest thanks to your entire staff, but especially to colleagues from the Justice Department, the Special Services, who, using their lives, are doing a heavy service for the Austrians. They don't make it easy, and they didn't deserve us to make fun of them. We should say this again today with all the emphasis. – Our support, Mrs. Federal Minister, you have!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15885	The next item is Mr Pack. I would like to speak on behalf of the Group of the Six minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15906	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Sexual offences belong to the most disgusting crimes there are. The fight against sexual crime must be a personal concern to all of us, because this is about the weakest of our society, namely our children. In public perception, almost exclusively the perpetrator who is often unknown to the victim plays a role that drags the victim away and causes him violence. Unfortunately, statistically speaking, it is quite different: About 70 to 90 percent of the perpetrators and victims are known to each other. The perpetrators are often family members, such as the mother's companion, householders, neighbors, acquaintances or friends of the family, the babysitter and, unfortunately, also educational or authority persons. So they are mostly people from the social area of the victim. It is a sad report that since 2001, more than 24,000 ads have been paid for crimes or crimes against sexual integrity or self-determination. In the specific area of child pornography alone, for example, it was already 350 cases this year. The need for action in this area also shows a view beyond Austria: Thus, more than 50,000 sexual crimes were reported in Germany alone in 2006. We must focus on the investigation work of the crime prevention, but also on victim assistance and international cooperation in police investigation. In spring, our police succeeded in breaking up an international child pornography ring through good international cooperation in the ‘Flo’ operation, bringing both the perpetrators and, so to speak, the users of a punishment. Ladies and gentlemen! It must also be said: In this area our executive is very good on the road. The education rate is more than 77 percent, even more than 80 percent in the field of child pornography. With this in mind, it is also necessary to express great thanks to the officials of the executive who clarify these cases, because if you need to clarify such cases, you also personally go to its limits. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Sexual violence and sexual abuse have devastating effects on the lives of victims and their families. Everything must therefore be done to prevent such crimes. A clear signal must be that there are tough measures in the case of sexual offences. There must be no tolerance here. Furthermore, therapy, prevention and education are important and necessary. As my previous speaker, Mrs Anna Franz, has already mentioned, we therefore urgently need the announced sexual offender file with the objectives of preventing and protecting, facilitating and supporting the education and professional bans. It is clear that a child’s malignancy or a pedophile man must never work with children again. – I think we all agree! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] High house! Our Minister for the Interior Günther Platterhat prepares a final approach, and now the Minister of Justice is called to act. Ladies and gentlemen! Measures in this area are not just in the government programme. It has been mentioned several times today that we have decided on two motions for resolutions which were correct and important. Mr Westenthaler, by your question you want to operate purely party policy and swing the populist cue. It's nice and nice that Mrs Haubner is trying to clarify this and oppose it, but that's what it is! – We believe that life and mental health of children are too valuable for party politics. This is where we must take a lead, for the benefit of our children and for the protection from crime! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I would like to take a very brief look at the comments made by Mrs Zwerschitz: Their statements at the beginning of their speech have confused me a little. What you said today, ladies and gentlemen, is kind of funny! They have said that a father and a mother who chooses to stay with their children to raise them and protect them should be indirectly guilty of child injury. – Mrs Colleague! That is very confusing, and I ask you to clarify that! We don't want – and for that the ÖVP Garant – to excuse offenders. We don't want to be mild, because that's the wrong signal. Mrs Minister, there is more important to do! Quickly implement the Platter concept against sexual criminals! This will save us in the future such populist requests of the BZÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e15988	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Zinggl. 6 minutes desired speaking time. Total residence time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16010	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Whoever acts and bets against the prison relief plans of the Minister should know – and know it – that this is a game with the fears of the people, that this game of course is supposed to bring about political change and that this policy, in fact, will ultimately prevent exactly the constructive judicial policy that should improve our co-existence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon.]] Such fears, which concern, for example, the foreign, the EU and, of course, the criminals, are constantly being startled. Yesterday in the club, we have swirled, which today will be the urgent question of the BZÖ topic: Then it was again the criminals, and it was doubled in the request by the emphasis of the evil foreign offenders. That's a good thing then! Mr Westenthaler is no longer here, so that is his “threatiness. ” - Ah, there he is! . I wonder, Mr Westenthaler, what do you mean when you write that punishment for foreign professional criminals should not come. Why should this concern only foreign professional criminals? Do you think there should be criminal relief for domestic professional criminals? That would be against the principle of equality! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] I don't think you mean that, but you double that once again the fears! It's also strange that you're always talking about already condemned foreign offenders. Apparently, only these are always the evil ones. On the other hand, I have never heard criticism of anyone from your side about the judgments concerning those four torture police. I can only tell you: That was a very serious torture here in Austria, and the sentences of eight, three and six months due to these policemen really surprise us! But I've never heard of that before from your side! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] There was also no opinion from you on the fact that the Human Rights Advisory Council called for the suspension of these officials, but did not grant this suspension. they are still in service and even their fine has now been reduced to only three months' wages. That scares me, and it scares many people in the population! If you have always been talking about the population – which you cannot really represent with your few percent from the south – then you should also criticize such judgments! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Nor do I hear any of the sanctions imposed on parliamentarians who make false testimony. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] Mr Commissioner, do you not think that such representatives should be examined a little more precisely and should not enjoy special rules of advantage? I therefore make the following request in this context: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you've always been talking about the population: I believe that a large proportion of the population would agree with this, and I hope that you too will agree with it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16116	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16170	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. Confirmation time: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16192	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If you follow the discussion, you think if you look into the left half of the empire, we're here in Alice's wonderland. This calls for eighty-eight policies: Clearly, crimes are only more reactions from individual members of society, society itself is guilty of such reactions, and according to this mentality, one has to think about how people who have broken back into society those values that society has set up. On behalf of Mr Steinhauser of the Greens: You said that higher prison sentences do not bring security. – You may be right in your opinion, but I believe that an earlier release of criminal offenders does not bring any security for a state at all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It is even the question to ask whether one wants to punish offenders, or whether one may now come to the seat of the eighties from the seating policy, that one simply joins with appeal agents, judges and prosecutors, and once discuss the problem of why one has committed crimes at all. Do we want to go over to that? My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, you should consider exactly what the execution of the sentence looks like. – Once again, I can tell you a little bit from practice and recommend it to you: Go to a detention centre and carry out mandatory defence of persons – I am now holding to your language doctor – migration background! Do you know what such people often say when they are told that there will now be a detention trial in which Mrs. Rat, the judge, will decide whether or not to continue their detention? – For example, you often hear the message: A judge – that is, a woman – I do not accept at all! – How do you want to resocialize such people with us? Do you know what these people do when a parole officer comes and accompanies them? – They will in any case laugh at it with their fellow prisoners, with whom they sit in prison. – They therefore endanger the security of our state. And that's what we're going to do. That will not allow the population to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] Penalties have been executed, as well as the laws have to be implemented and deportations have to take place. You can't make any differences. And, of course, it must not be an economic decision whether or not a conditional arrest is made earlier. In fact, there was a practice practiced for decades in the previously conditional dismissal, which can be said without practicing populism. However, it must also be pointed out quite clearly and clearly that it has always been said that the resulting dismissal is possible if the execution of the criminal remains is not necessary to prevent the offender from further criminal acts. This has now been changed. Now the point is that the execution of the crime remains is necessary if the offender is thereby prevented from doing criminal acts with serious consequences. That's where I ask you: What are “heavy consequences ”? When can you expect them and when not? Clarify Get me over it! What's that? I think that is very worrying, and I am really curious about whether this will withstand a constitutional review! I would like to say to the non-resident and condemned foreign lawbreakers: How do you want to impose an exit obligation here? Let these people be released earlier, and perhaps even put money in their hands and say: Here are a few thousand euros, but please leave our prison and our country!? – I say to you: Be glad when he's with us longer, because he'll be back soon enough! That is the reality. You know that very well! Regarding the Jugendgerichtshof, I wonder why it is always praised: These are only available in Vienna. There is no judicial court in the other courts. Are the other federal states worse? Are other young people being disadvantaged? – You should also question that! We will continue to support prison sentences and ensure that people who have violated the values of our society are also detained by this society in order to protect our society!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16271	Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes desired speaking time; this is also your entire remaining speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16292	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Regardless of whoever wrote the answer to the urgent question for you, you are not prepared to use an official for it: The way in which you have read your reply, as you have read it out of the leaf in such a debate completely rainless and unemotional, was, at least, naive, non-reality, contradictory, and marked by a heart and emotional indiscriminateness to the victims, the children and the affected families. If, moreover, honourable Member Pendl and also the Green Member, whom I do not know, as he is called, because I do not know him, here are all serious arguments that we are wrong, because the perpetrator who was in school was not a normal freeman, but had only exit, then I will tell you all and all those who believe this, something: Do you know that the minor girl and his family are completely angry about whether this is a freeman or an exitr? He doesn't have to be there, And it is also this relaxed punishment that we do not want to have! That's why we criticized it! That's why we want you to take a sharper drive in here. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mrs Berger believes all serious that the relapse rate is 1 : 100. I don't know who's telling you that! Who's claiming that? I would like to know the source! Who's so naive to believe that? What scientific findings are based on the claim that one in a hundred will fall back? A comparison to this: The Charité in Berlin says that there is an 80 percent decline rate: Saxon Justice Minister Mackenroth says that half of the discharged sexual offenders are again sentenced to another 35 to 45 percent in the first five years after they were released and with extended risk of relapse. The medical journal of Springer Verlag speaks of a relapse rate of up to 70 percent. In view of this, Mrs Minister, I ask you: How do you get the claim that only one in a hundred will fall back? I now quote someone you know, the former Federal Chancellor Schröder, SPD, who said in his term of office: As far as the treatment of sexual offenders is concerned, I feel more and more that adult men who pass on to little girls are not therapeutic. Therefore, there can only be one solution: Lock away forever. - Quote. That's what S & D Schröder says, Mr. Cap! You should be a model of him! The safest thing to protect people from relapses is to lock these perpetrators away once and for all and never let them go to society again. That is our demand, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Minister, it is not possible to argue that one in a hundred will fall back, nor with the fact that 10, 20, 30, 40 or 50 percent will fall. If only one in a hundred will fall back, then we have committed a wrong here, because then a child was again abused by such a person, and therefore we speak out against it quite massively. They say that 1 368 prisoners were released early in these few months when the woman's minister is in office. 1 368 is a remarkable number! In addition, you say you know that only one in a hundred will fall back. But tell us that unfortunately you do not yet know how many of them are sexual offenders. – Mrs. Minister! Obviously, your loosened execution of the sentence gives rise to a free run of condemned sexual offenders who have been released in advance. And you're sitting there calmly and saying you're going to deliver the numbers to me! That's a scandal! These people are locked up and must not be released, so that they run around freely. How can you give such an answer at all? It's really a mystery to me! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Second point: Asylums. – You say you do not know how many of the foreign prisoners are. We have the next communication leak between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Justice! What is the matter, Mrs Minister, if you sit down with your colleagues and let those foreign offenders get through the asylum cards? Then you know at a button how many asylum seekers are in prison for whom an asylum procedure is pending. Nothing else we wanted to know. These also belong to punishment, and this number is relatively easily recoverable. Last point: Mrs Minister, you just drove over the questions and didn't answer them. I would have expected you to answer at least one question: Question No 10. Mrs Minister, do you not think that a criminal who has sexually abused a girl and caused his death is at the lowest level of injustice and should therefore be punished exclusively with life-long imprisonment? That's a very simple question, Mrs. Minister! But they've gone over it! I expect you to comment on this question, Mrs Minister! If in Austria a minor child is killed by a sexual offender, this sexual offender must be sentenced to life. I want to know how you stand, Mrs. Minister! This is a fundamental question which has to do with how we protect the people, the children and the families here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] You, Mrs Minister, have, in any case, really failed with this answer to your question! That has not been an answer! That is why I say to you: I expect you to speak and comment on these points and not to hide behind a reply from an official who has written anything to you in official German. That's too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16390	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Berger has been mentioned for a long time. I now give her the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16411	Madam President. High house! I would like to take this opportunity to clarify some conscious or unconscious – I do not trust in any judgment here – misunderstandings. First of all, I would like to thank all those who use this debate to really deal seriously with this issue. If we want to prevent sexual offences in particular, we need to look closely at the causes, we need to look at the victim groups, the perpetrator groups, and consider how best to prevent sexual offences. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] In this context, I have pointed out that in 99 cases of the perpetrators, hundreds of victims are not a pre-criminal offender, the well-known relapser, but persons from the nearer environment of the child, the family. That can be the stepfather, that can be his own father, that can be the teacher, that can be the priest, that can be a youth caretaker, that can be someone from the voluntary field and unfortunately many other persons too. If we want us to prevent sexual offences, we must also start with this group and lead everything in the way that we, on the one hand, – and I thank you for these clues that have come – strengthen the children that they immediately prevent the first minor attacks, that they are confident that they go to the mother, that they go to the teachers in school. We adults must have an attentive eye to immediately perceive and intervene on behavioural changes in children. On the other hand, it will also be a matter of expanding advice and therapy for potential perpetrators, who may not feel quite comfortable in their skins. I am for everything that helps us to prevent relapses from exactly those perpetrators we already know who were with us in justice. That's exactly what the number has been referring to. Those who are already in prison with us as a sexual offender, which we can take in therapy, are currently 5 percent of the relapse rate. The numbers you mentioned refer to unthemed sexual offenders. A high number of non-therapist sexual offenders is of course a big problem. We need to expand the therapy in this area, we need more capacity, because this is the only way to reduce the return figures here. I am also opposed to really false precepts, because what you said about the drug law is simply wrong. I can only ask you to look closely at the classification. We even have some intensifications in this new draft of the Drugs Act; I really ask here not to spread false facts. On the question of non-residentated foreigners, who are in the Austrian execution, because the proposed measures have been criticised here: I ask all those who believe that this is not feasible to take into account that we now have far-reaching residence bans, that we have common border controls, where these residence bans are also controlled, that we already use fingerprints to a large extent, so that we have this problem of false papers increasingly less and less. So I would ask you to take these facts into account in the debate on this issue. On the question of the further procedure for reducing sexual offences. I should also like to mention a few figures in this context, so that nothing is spread wrong in this respect. The number of convictions is slightly declining: We had seen all sexual crimes in 2005 679 convictions and in 2006 570 convictions. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How much was not indicated? Do you know how many are not even shown? 10,000!]] We know that the dark figures are very high, and of course we will continue to strive to increase the ability to display by strengthening the victims. This is not funny for the families – I really ask you to take this into account – when a girl shows his own father to the police. This is the most likely and most common constellation that the perpetrator of his own father, the stepfather et cetera, is and I ask you to take this circumstance into account when considering appropriate measures. We are trying to do even more; therefore, it is a common concern of colleagues Platter and me, the various proposals that exist, such as the sexual offender file – we are now also looking at what there is in the Federal Republic of Germany all the additional rules – to pour into a common concept. It was also my proposal not only to consider professional bans, but also to include voluntary activity. As has already been said, we will make a proposal here at the end of October. What the criminal frameworks are about – I have already said in advance –: We have the mandate of this House to evaluate by the end of the year the impact of the 2004 Criminal Law Change Act, to see to what extent the courts have used the amendments that were then made, and on this basis we will continue the debate on new measures to be taken. I would also like to point out that this is a real concern for me. We are focusing on everything that is involved in legal process support, psychosocial process support. We are expanding the gentle agreement, giving it not only in the case of sexual offences, but also in the case of all acts of violence, where the victim is particularly gentle to treat. I can point out that the funds we have available for this will be increased from € 2 million in 2006 to € 4.5 million in 2008. I hope that this number will also serve as proof that victim protection is indeed a central concern for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16460	Mr Aspock is now speaking. 4 minutes desired speaking time; Total residence time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16481	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If I let the discussion on this point take place today, I could give her the following headline: Discussion of the Realists with the Illusionists. With “the illusionists” I mean the left part of the SPÖ, not all, and the greens, the “watermelon”, which, although wearing a green skin, is inside and through blood red. [[Calls to the Greens.]] Mrs. Bundesminister Berger, an interview with the “Press” I take from you that you say you see yourself as successor Christian Brodas. So there's a hint of nostalgia, since you've been in this ministry, by the Ministry of Justice, because you've taken Broda as an example. Nostalgic considerations are, however, sometimes very dangerous, ladies and gentlemen, because in nostalgic consideration the contours float very often and one no longer perceives what was actually thought and done at that time. I would not like to make Mr Broda's Minister of Justice bad on the ground, but I would like to remind him of some things. One was a typical left-wing dream, as many do: society without prisons. – As long as there is humanity, if you think realistically, there will be people who behave differently in society, that is, not in accordance with rules, and therefore there will never be prisonless society. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I would also like to mention what was done at that time, at least in part. For example, the following have been done: A number of criminal proceedings were defeated at the time. As much as I can remember, it was about 250 throughout the time. – This is how you can decriminalize. However, this is not our free access to decriminalisation, that justice ministers, as they did at the time, may simply beat down 250 criminal proceedings to protect their own people. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, I have the feeling that you want to continue this path now – not as spectacular as Broda, but gradually and creeping. And in this I see the next danger, because the citizens of this country, of course, do not immediately recognize what is going on, and that there are illusions that will eventually end up there, that we have the whole chaos in Austria, because the executive is no longer working, which has been systematically diluted for a number of years, and the execution and the judicial system are no longer working properly. You want premature redundancies, and for foreigners you want the even more premature redundancies. I can only hope one thing: that independent judges will draw their conclusions from it and, in this redundancie that you automatically attach to it, will use the framework of the existing laws accordingly so that our country does not suffer too much damage.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16533	Mr Mayerhofer is now speaking. 4 minutes desired speaking time; Total residence time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16555	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! An appeal at the beginning: No experiments at the expense of the citizen! – Most judicial institutions are massively overcrowded; You've confirmed that yourself. We must also follow this development. One point is the lack of guards. I have still held discussions with colleagues in the judicial executives today, and it is called on vehemently to remedy this, and Parliamentarians should be reminded – all of us and, of course, as officials of the security executive with 30 years of service – that the apparent lack of detention due to the lack of the super-necessary judicial guards will be further aggravated. There is no increase in the level of staff – or only to a small extent. On the contrary: Officials are confronted with overtime savings, while judicial guard schools are too few. What about the tree alley? Where will the officials needed in the tree road be removed? Will he be taken up for his own staff? Further: The therapies and many special programs require a lot of personnel and effort. The recruitment of treatment staff is obviously more important than the reception of judicial officials. Or: the problem of early detention. What does the competent government member do in the face of the entire government? Can this problem be addressed by trying to empty the overcrowded execution facilities with early detention? Does this mean that one is thinking of early release of sexual offenders? At least one goes here and tries to get that into the discussion. The balloon has risen, but not taken up by all. The interested citizen knows where to go. To simply hide alcoholized car drivers with 0.8 Promille in detention facilities is a dangerous threat to the driver. It can't be that on the one hand, sexual offenders are running around freely, thinking about how long before they can be released, and on the other hand, drivers are imprisoned. To remain in the field of personnel and labour costs: Which safety executive do you want to implement this new criminal standard for the drivers? With which non-existent personnel in the field of security management? With what staff in the field of judicial administration? Is an exchange of prisoners your political goal: Sexual offenders out and alcoholized handlebars in? – I repeat, but you can’t say that often enough so that the citizen can hear it too. Where does proportionality remain in the assessment of debt? Do you want to plunge the drivers into the total social abyss if they have committed an administrative breach, namely, that they have drunk too much alcohol, and are shown? Do you want to throw more family owners into the social abyss? Another logistic problem: Nearly half of all up to 9 000 prisoners are not Austrians. By the way, today also mentioned, but you cannot mention it often enough: also an impact of your policy! That must have been said here once. That's why my appeal is: Don't change anything that doesn't need a change! Don't swirl around if you're not yet aware of what personnel you're supposed to do with! Don't just think about the prisoners in This country, think also of your employees in your resort, who perform their service daily under the most difficult conditions – to the safety and well-being of those citizens who act lawfully at every hour. I therefore make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16641	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16705	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Pilz. Total residence time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16727	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! If justice – it is not about grace or not grace at all – is based on criminal law and criminal order, and I assume that this will be the case, then many things speak for the fact that today we have heard one of the last speeches of the Westenthaler Member in this House. The last word is right in the case of justice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Only Members who, for probably very good reasons – at least good for the rule of law – have become cases for justice and are likely to become clearer now, which means if they do not demand grace. Mr Westenthaler, you could soon get to the point of grace, but we have approached your proposal in one point, because one of the people in Austria does not understand: that, in many cases, politicians and non-politicals, influential persons and non-influenced persons are treated differently before the courts. [[Abg. May. Hakl: You have been in this situation more often, Mr Pilz!]] On the basis of our motion for a resolution, we have found a great deal of happiness for the National Council, which means: “An incident on the evening of the last National Council election could not harm the national council’s reputation only because of the lack of reputation of the elected Member.” However, we do not want to build on the fact that it is repeated in the future. And I say one thing to you very clearly: Despite the political unhappiness behind this urgent request by the BZÖ, despite this dangerous game, which is now being used again and again with foreign crime, with sexual criminal offences, with many other offences by so-called marginal and external groups in this House, I think that this request is much more serious, and I would ask the House's Members to consider carefully whether they should not agree to a simple request, a request that means: “The Federal Minister for Justice is invited to ensure that, in the case of politically motivated host companies and false statements in the interests of the reputation of politics, perpetrators are no better treated as non-politics with political agents.” I would recommend that this be taken seriously, without any regard for the Group, and that it should be accepted as far as possible. - That's the first one. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second, to the answers of the Minister of Justice: I think it is important for such delicate issues as the questions: How do we deal with sexual offences? How do we prevent them? How do we deal with this in court? What does the execution look like, what does the probation look like, how does the possible resocialization look like? It is discussed in a calm, reticent and objective manner. The Minister of Justice has done so today and in the past. And I think this is also the only way to deal with questions of this kind. It is always about prevention, protection, punishment, enforcement, rehabilitation and reintegration. And the worst and most dangerous politicians and those who create the most insecurity are those who don't care about the protection, who don't care about the execution, who don't care about reintegration, but who just say: Penalties, punishments, punishments, punishments, no matter what happens before, no matter what happens afterwards! But it's for the children, and it doesn't matter what happens before and after. And we know, not only from Austrian experiences that only punish and not think about what happens before and after, is the most dangerous for those who have already been victims, and the most dangerous for those who can still be victims. The greatest uncertainty is that politicians from BZÖ and FPÖ do not understand that justice is above all a protection – protection of people, protection of a society and protection of the rule of law, to which all who have to do so must rely. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] There are rare points where I say: All right, in this legislative period, I can say that I think that is the appropriate and reasonable response of a member of the government. In this case, it is the case. And I hope that the ÖVP today announced a recordr concept for the execution of the sentence. We need to protect justice in a sustainable way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16784	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Total residence time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16806	Madam President. High house! I would like to encourage, as a summary of this debate, the following: A real debate is to be held, which is really serious! I remember some of the statements of the then Minister of Justice, Harald Ofner, who, in a very serious way, dealt with one of his predecessors, namely Christian Broda. It was the term “prisonless society” a concept of fighting, because Christian Broda never wanted to be the prisonless society, but it was a concept of fighting where one wanted to assume that there are people who do not want to protect the citizens who do not want to protect victims, who simply want to exercise demagogy with the threats of unlimited punishments and who do not want to have more security and more protection in the population and for the population. That is what I am proposing to the applicants for this urgent request today: that they do not really want to have a serious debate in the centre, where at the end of the day we will find common solutions for greater security and for greater protection for the population, but that this issue will be used to cook a little soup here, which does not help us all. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I can only say one thing: We also want to express our strong support for the positions expressed by the Minister of Justice today by our group, because we believe that this is the right way forward. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We also do not like the fact that in some of the statements made here, we and the Minister of Justice are in fact under stand that it is the coops of potential offenders. That's not all right! So you can't have a discussion if you want to lead it seriously – and not with us at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We didn't say!]] I would now also like to say something to my previous speaker, which I sometimes very much appreciate, because he brings some funny attitudes into politics. Only: This motion for a resolution must be considered more precisely. This is actually not funny, because he underlies the Minister of Justice that she would allow perpetrators to be treated better with political offices than non-politicals. - Where? When? Who? I'd like to see that once. We will still have to deal with these Causa in the immunity committee today, and then justice will go its way. Off. But there's something going on where I'm wondering why that's there. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The second, which I also remember, is the fact that there is a connection between the really serious point of the question of child injury, which has been a subject here, and the debate of an arbitrary innkeepery and the accused false statements. I don't think that belongs together. Even since my appeal: If one wants to discuss seriously, then one should really go to the core of the matter, to cause research, to social psychological causes, to social causes, to the question of how to perform, how to lead a resocialization – all that the often very demagogically gifted Peter Pilz has had in his speech in it, but has mixed it with those points that I do not think are serious. [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: The Westenthaler? Go, please!]] Then: This issue is too serious, especially the issue of sexual offenders, with all the related consequences. This is too serious to carry out a cheap party policy polemics here or to make jokes here. Well, once again: Our full support for the Minister of Justice! She's really on the right track.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16890	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, on no mercy for host workers and false speakers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. This request is therefore rejected. We now come to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues and colleagues on chemical castration of child abusers and other sexual offenders. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[17:57:35]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16948	We are now entering the brief debate on the request made by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, the Justice Committee for reporting on Mr Mag's motion for a resolution 3/A. Lunacek, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law establishing the Federal Act on the Civil Pact and amending other laws, a period of time until 4. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. The floor is now given to the applicant, Mrs Third President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e16988	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This morning we discussed very detailed family concepts, family concepts and freedom of choice and so on, in detail and how families divide their work among themselves, but there is a large group of people in Austria who cannot even choose their families freely and are still discriminated against in their family choice. These are gays, lesbians and transgender people who are still unable to support each other freely in Austria, even in international comparison, compared to other countries. Unfortunately, it's still like that, although you say it's wrong. We have been discussing equality for more than ten years now, including in this House, over and over again about advances and requests and debates. We've been discussing very, very long. There have now been numerous developments in the rest of the European world: In many countries there are similar institutions, registered partnerships, an interesting development of family law. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Unfortunately, it is not only in Austria – and also in Italy – that you have to say it! Austria is losing touch on an important human rights issue and has now become the final light of Europe in this area, the final light of the European States. This is very sad, because it is a fundamental right, namely the fundamental right to private and family life. As there have recently been some comments both from the SPÖ and from the ÖVP, I believe that the time is ripe for us to reach a decision here in the High House in this area too. That is why we propose that this deadline request for a deadline be set by December of this year for the Committee on Justice to deal with the requests for discussion in many ways and to forward a report to the Assembly. This is primarily a request from Mr Lunacek for a civil pact. It's about opening the marriage. But I believe that other Members in this House can also make important contributions to this issue. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] After having spent a year in the perspective group of the ÖVP, it has developed the perspective that there are people who want to live equally in partnerships with each other, who need to submit their life situation to legal certainty and to regulate the commitment of each other to the assistance of et cetera. This perspective has not then been excluded from the Vice-Chancellor and the Head of the ÖVP Party. On the contrary: It was said quite clearly and clearly: These are not points of discussion or discussions, not grounds for discussion, but clear orders for transposition into political reality! – This was said by ÖVP leader, Deputy Chancellor, Finance Minister Wilhelm Molterer. So: Clear jobs! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then we'll work too! We're very happy to answer this. We always work very, very much, especially when it goes on in the field of social policy. Since many of the SPÖs can now also imagine equality and have always taken a stand on it – whether this is my colleague Wittmann, whether this is the First President Prammer, whether this is Mr Jarolim, whether it is the Minister of Justice Berger – I think we have a very, very broad majority here in the House for opening the marriage or for introducing a former-like institute for the same-sex people in Austria. That is, I think, something we can be pleased with and where we can now start working quickly in the Committee on Justice, so that we can have an advance here by the end of the year. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: What do we need a short debate here?]] I hope I didn't make a mistake here right now. “What do we need a short debate here?” that is a good question. I would have expected to be able to confirm from many sides that this is not a discussion, but that the clear task is that you, as a judge, might become active yourself and already provide a presentation for the first reading here, because we have been discussing for a long time. There are also many good international... [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: We have been active for a long time! We don't need the greens to do that!]] You don't need us to do that? – I know you don’t need good ideas from other parties in principle. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Good ideas, but not yours! We're making good beats!]] But I think that is not a quality that distinguishes your work, but rather: Unfortunately, it is a feature of this great coalition that one never wants to resort to good proposals and debated proposals at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am sorry, but this is a really old-fashioned understanding of parliamentarianism and has nothing to do with modern involvement of colleagues in Parliament. Sorry! I would like to explain once again our idea, the civil package, but also the opening of the marriage, once again. I never fully understood the arguments to be put forward here. From the ÖVP side, it often came like this: The Institute of Marriage has a special “touch” – under quotation marks –; I do not want to call it “holy” now. It is essentially a legal institution. The question is: Why not open it to homosexual partnerships? There's nothing against it. The FPÖ argument, which says that the Institute of Marriage only serves reproduction, I cannot fully understand either because marriages are closed for many reasons. I do not want to know exactly why they are being closed. That can be a wide range of considerations. I don't want to look into people's hearts or brains. It is their right to join forces. And why should we refuse the same-sex people? There is no reasonable reason for this. 65-year-olds certainly no longer conclude marriage from reproductive considerations, but they should still be allowed to marry. I think the argument is ad absurd. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In many ways, social parenting is often taken over in families where gender partnerships are lived. It often has women who live together, from previous connections children. There are social parenthoods that you definitely want to exclude from legal equality, because both sides of the SPÖ and the ÖVP were not an option. This is very bad, because, as I mean, love, giving and promoting children are not dependent on whether the father and mother are, but it depends on whether the will and will are given and the ability to give the children something. That can be two women or two men just like a man and a woman. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There are many happy children, who do not have both parents, often have no parents at all, and I mean, if there are people who want to take over responsibility for children, then they should not be hindered, but they – on the contrary! – support and support this. To conclude: I believe that the complete implementation of the fundamental right to equality before the law also has a human rights dimension, and we cannot deny it in the long run. The fundamental right to private and family life in Austria is at risk in many ways, whether it concerns people who are married to people who do not have the Austrian passport, or whether the children who are not recognized as a family ingredient, as was the case recently with a Nigerian woman who has a six-month-old baby, where it is claimed that this is not a family. Of course it's a family! All these families need protection, and all have protection from a fundamental right, both in the Convention on Human Rights and in Austria, with a long constitutional tradition. Private and family life – the state should not interfere, as we should grant maximum freedom, freedom of movement and support! On the other hand, I would like to see this large majority, which is now obviously present, expressed in a law, so that the discrimination, which has gone over many, many years and is justified by nothing, is finally abolished.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17096	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of the Members who are speaking from now on is 5 minutes. The next item is Mrs Ablinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17121	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Glavischnig, I think it is a real concern to use the short debate to make this important point on the subject. That's not a question. I also believe that we have a consensus on many issues. We agree that we finally want to end discrimination against homosexuals, that it is time to do so. I also know with us the long discussions about getting movement within. But we also agree that this is a parliamentary majority that we want for it. Since 1971, we from the SPÖ have repeatedly initiated, committed ourselves to many success of equality with regard to lesbians and gays – whether it was the abolition of the total ban in the 1970s, whether it was the abolition of certain discriminatory criminal offences in the 1990s. And now we are dealing with legal steps to recognise equal opportunities for men and women. We, Mr Heinisch-Hosek, together with Mr Cap, have put in place a very well-designed bill in the last GP on the subject of registered partnerships. We were then able – in order to make this clear – for the first time to have a corresponding confession in a government agreement. The first thing that has happened is that Federal Minister Berger has also put himself on this issue and clearly said that it is about ending discrimination against lesbians and gays. Now, in the perspective group, the ÖVP has shown that it is moving. Hurra! And the next step was: Mrs Berger immediately responded and said: Then we press on the gas, we finally do something! It is our common urgent concern – and I believe you will not deny this – to end this discrimination. That's certainly where we agree. But we are talking about a majority in this House. We want this to be decided by a majority. That is the crucial point! A majority in this House now stands out for the registered partnership. Now, at last, there is movement in the ÖVP on this issue. I can recall times when we have fought with the EIA on other issues of discrimination against gender partnerships. Now there is finally also in this area in the ÖVP movement, and we are now at a stage where there are many questions in the negotiations, in the talks. That's why... [[Abg. Oillinger: Now there is another piece of work!]] No, no, no, This is the crucial point, and I think that is very serious: If we want a majority in the House to do so, then a deadline proposal is now counterproductive. [[Abg. Oillinger: Why?]] You know very well that it is a matter of negotiating seriously and making a presentation together with the EIA in this matter. And this proposal would be counterproductive, and you know it. That you are using the short debate on this issue is okay, I think that's right. But if we want to adopt the law together, then a deadline is set until 4. ==References====External links== - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17184	Mrs Dr Karl came to speak. Your maximum speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17205	Mr President. High house! The reasoning of the Civil Pact Act can be found under the heading ‘The Beings of the Civil Pact’: The Civil Pact is something for life partners who can “make the way in which they live and shape their relationship with each other completely free and subjective. ” “There is no catalogue of duties as for marriage”, the resolution of the Civil Pact takes place briefly and painlessly. After the resolution, “there is no more obligation to maintain the life partner’s standard of living.” Only if one of the two partners of life can no longer take care of their own survival, whether because of the management and/or the education of children, should the institution of marriage described as an antique be used. The marriage is thus reduced to a facility that serves only the purpose of ensuring the maintenance, it fulfils a kind of social assistance function at civil law level. On the other hand, if you decide on the civil pact, you will pick the raisins out of the institution of marriage. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's not true!]] In the light of the reasoning behind the Civil Pact Act, a contradiction to the request made by the Greens for the opening of marriage to couples of equal sex is evident: The explanatory note to the Civil Pact Act states, for example, that marriage corresponds to non-green social policy; rather, green social policy is based on the idea that “social security systems operate on the basis of individual security and that people do not become ‘involuntary’ economic dependence through their emotional relationships”. [[Demonstratative condolences with the Greens.]] [[Abg. Oils: Yes!]] Furthermore, it is stated that the “trust in the maintenance claim due to the management of the budget or the abandonment of one’s own future, as traditionally expressed to women as an ideal” proves to the marriage as “absolet”. [[Abg. Sburny: Yes!]] As negative, it is also stressed that “marriage procedures are about full existence and are led with corresponding hardness and mutual accusations. ” [[Abg. Oils: You didn't understand!]] After this description of the nature of marriage, it is actually amazing for me that another request from the Greens calls for this marriage to be opened to same-sex couples. Consequenceally, you should be glad that same-sex couples are protected from this unreasonable marriage. [[Call the ÖVP:Genau!]] On the other hand, we see... [[Abg. Sburny: You can leave it open to them!]] – Listening Once upon a time what we understand by marriage! On the other hand, we see marriage as the foundation of the family. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we do not want to narrow the central meaning of marriage and are against a “marriage light”. We want... [[Abg. Sburny: You landed in the wrong century if you have equal sex partnerships...!]] – If you listen to me, I will tell you how we imagine our further action: We want to give people in equal sex partnerships the opportunity to take responsibility for each other! [[Abg. Oils: So we're getting married!]] In the previously mentioned perspective group paper of the ÖVP, it is proposed to create a partnership law for similar couples. The aim is to create a new legal institution that gives the relationship of same-sex couples a legally guaranteed framework, with a clear demarcation to civil marriage. – The implementation of this project is currently underway. Mrs Glawischnig, you see that we actually see the perspective group paper as a clear task for the implementation into reality, but you also know that it requires the amendment of a number of different laws. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Where is she?- Oh, my God!]] I have criticised in the Committee on Justice the social security changes associated with the introduction of the Civil Pact legislation as faulty. We want to avoid such mistakes in our draft partnership law and therefore we are addressing this project with the necessary care. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This takes time, and we want to take this time! That is why we also reject the proposal for a time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17366	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17403	Ladies and gentlemen! For 21 years, the ÖVP is now in the government, and there is probably no working area in which it has left its handwriting more clearly by putting it on a standstill. It's actually scurry: By doing nothing, showing his handwriting, is a political achievement! But we have to find out, she succeeded: Austria is now lagging behind the development of European law, not only in the area concerned, but also in divorce law, in rights of name, in the regulation of communities of life, but also in the issue of equality between heterosexual and homosexual partnerships. [[Call: That's right.]] – It has already been mentioned: In almost all countries, these institutions already exist – Poland and Italy are the major exceptions – even in Catholic Spain, no one is afraid of a gender partnership that is legally protected. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The crucial question – because this deadline request clearly makes such problems – is: What are you afraid of? – I think the times are over, where fundamental socialists tell us what is good and right and what is unique. If two people want to stand together, it is up to policy to provide the appropriate legal institution. We don't need special laws for gays and lesbians, but we need real equality. We need the regulation of communities, the civil pact and marriage, because they bring together a different intensity of commitment. With what authority is the opening of the marriage denied? – Now I have finally experienced it firsthand: Marriage is the foundation of the family. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Yes!]] – Which prepotence do you define ‘family’? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Why isn't the same-sex love also a form of family for you? How many heterosexuals Marriages are childless? Is that a family or isn't it a family? – According to my definition, such marriages are also a family! – If you are frustrated because your world view is swimming slowly, then discuss this in your circles, but forgive us! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless, there are also things to mention in praise: There is obviously something like a delicate liberal plant in the ÖVP. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: What does this have to do with...?]] The first leaves burst, but now there is a great danger that some of the lawn mowers will be thrown back. We'll see if the plant can grow or if the lawn mower is coming. Also exciting is the finding of the perspective group because it means a quantum leap for the ÖVP, the ÖVP is, as it were, from 19th to 20th century. ==References== [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Back!]] – Let’s look together at how long it takes until you arrive in the present! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger:... minority!]] Mr Ablinger's access to the deadline request is also exciting: While one obviously already has a basic consensus on this – the ÖVP has moved, the SPÖ has been long for – that something has to do in this area, it is said that you need time. – I would remind you of the Banking Investigation Committee: There was suddenly a hot thing about it, and the deadline request was suddenly a suitable means of “pressing down ” the entire story within two days. Obviously, the time factor has not played a role. [[Call:This is a warning]] Trust something! Voices You must submit our request for deadlines! This will ensure that the ÖVP remains that there is no time for the lawn mowers to throw. I believe that we will then come to a result which is a broad majority here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17556	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer. 5 minutes maximum speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17577	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the High house! Two souls live in my chest: To agree to the deadline request would be tempting on the one hand, because then the opportunity would be given that this issue, which is constantly being boiled up, would finally be offset by a clear, hopefully negative decision-making situation in the judicial committee. On the other hand, this is one issue where the Freedom Party nowhere can recognize even the slightest approach to agree with it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Not at all!]] It's a big mistake – a big mistake! – just because in the ÖVP perspective group a choice of words was made, which I am not pleased – but should be – to suspect some kind of liberal plant somewhere. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: word donation!]] If I want to look at the understanding of the principles of freedom and liberality of the Greens, it is worth a bit of looking at in the historical memory book: What have we heard?- Oh, my God! – release of drugs, years of intense fights for drug sharing drug shops should be established, the release of marijuana, until finally it has prevailed that marijuana, for example, is a dangerous entry drug. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: It's about gender partnerships!]] Now we have a new social-disturbing event: One wants to break the marriage by equalizing the same sex partnership of marriage. [[Abg. Brosz:... Entry drug is!]] I explain the point of view and speak for the Freedom Party, so that once and for all there is clarity: The Freedom Party confesses with joy to one – what was called it? – fundamental socialism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There I am with joy fundamentalist, for marriage is and remains an indispensable foundation for the operation of a society that at least corresponds to our model! [[Congratulations with FPÖ and ÖVP.]] Of course, the resolution of marriage is pursued by certain marginal appearances that have established themselves, just as one likes to build minarette, as one would like to see equality of Islamism, as one introduces the wearing of a head cloth, as one would like to take off crosses in school. – All of these are certain elements of destructive action, which is why one is doing this because one wants to recognize his world order in it. [[Abg. Ollinger:... Conspiracy theory!]] [[Abg. Sburny: World Conspiracy!]] The truth is: If it were to be wanted that same-sex couples wish to give each other similar or similar obligations, they can, of course, already do so today. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] They can go to any notary, close a notarial act and enter into mutual maintenance obligations, they can determine a common household and housing – all of this is possible of course! Granted, they can – God help this house that never happens! – adopt children, but they can never replace marriage as the foundation of society with their gender scenario. And from the point of view of the Freedom Party, it remains with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17714	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Its maximum speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17736	Ladies and gentlemen! It was now nice to see the enthusiasm at the ÖVP about Mr Fichtenbauer's statements. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That was a selective enthusiasm!]] – Maybe that's why it's selective, because there are other tendencies and moods in you right now. [[Calls.]] – Yes, but if it's too big, then you don't keep it in the hem, that's a problem. [[Abg. Oils: Iran's judicial policy is that!]] [[Further calls.]] That's easier to do, you're right. It's perfect! We can stay with a clear line – the smallness sometimes also has its advantages: Only if you hear how long the club meetings take for you – until all the groups and sub-organisations have made their preliminary discussions – that is, for so long that we cannot make committee meetings at all on a club meeting day – but only by the way. [[towards ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: You'd be glad if you had so many sessions!]] - No! So many meetings of sub-organisations, that is too laborious. We prefer to make a policy of content rather than deal with ourselves. That's much better! – With that on the content of the application. Once, in principle, for the formal: There is a quiet or not so quiet discussion... – Mr President, I think of it once again when you make such calls. [[Abg. Brosz:... battling!]] I actually wanted to say that, on the basis of fundamental considerations, we always agree with the deadlines of the opposition parties, regardless of whether or not we agree to their content, because we believe that opposition parties should support themselves by discussing applications at all and bringing them to the agenda in the committees. It has been promised, also by Mr Cap, that this would be different from what is supposed to have been said earlier, but it has, of course, become much worse, because opposition applications are not being dealt with. That is why we agree to the signal of the deadline without at the same time agreeing to the content of this request. [[Abg. Oils: Oh you!]] - But not because you've been back! It is because, I believe, it was Mr Steinhauser, who, with the exception of what he said in the previous debate, was not correct, but now it is true, who has recognized something right: there are a whole series of provisions in the law of marriage and divorce, which are already very old. Here you are perfectly right, because the law of marriage and divorce comes in its roots from 1811, and in its further development... – In the ABGB already! [[Abg. Oils: for the ÖVP hasty!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: But there we have to change the Commercial Code too!]] And the marriage law dates back to 1938, and I deliberately say after the “connect. ” [[Abg. Oils: Ui!]] I do not believe that either this or the other should be a basis for a modern marriage and divorce law, and many of the principles that date back to that time are really outdated. It should be discussed comprehensively – and indeed comprehensively! But we've seen – that's what Mrs. Gastinger wanted! . if one focuses too much on a segment of this renewal or this possible renewal or a possible regulatory need, then everything else remains on the lines and it is only more discussed about this one segment, namely the question of equality of homosexual partnerships. I say this consciously: We need a regulation when modernizing the right of marriage and divorce as a whole, and then this can be a partial issue, but it should not be in the foreground. In principle, I say to you: How people live together, that's their private business, the state is not supposed to interfere at all. But I also say quite clearly that the state should only promote and support where society has an interest, and that is where families, especially with children, exist, because of that society of course... – That is if you have listened to me properly, not a question of marriage, but a question of the family with children. [[Abg. Oillingers: Then the 70-year-olds can no longer marry!]] And all the ideas that came with promotions, with support – we once had the discussion on social security contributions – I say a clear no for privileges of partnerships without children – and I say again here again: without children! You can talk about all of this, but you yourself have not fully thought it out, because you always refer to the divorce and marriage law of the old law, partly also contradictory. You say the whole thing can be dissolved under the conditions that apply to a common divorce, but there is a six-month separation required, and then write in the second paragraph: If that is not the case, then after six months you can definitely want to separate in court. – This is a bit strange and not quite thought-out. That's just a little flashlight. That is why we are ready to discuss this in the Committee, which is why we are saying that the deadline is set, but no to the content required in this request. [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17900	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall vote, and we shall vote on the request made by Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, to the Committee on Justice for reporting on Mr Mag's motion for a resolution 3/A. Lunacek, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law establishing the Federal Act on the Civil Pact and amending further laws, a period of time until 4. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application was therefore rejected. [[18:28:59]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17936	I take the negotiations on the 9th. Agenda item again. The next speaker is Mr Wöginger, with a two-minute voluntary speaking time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e17960	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Back to the novel of the Foreign Employment Act. This amendment also implements an ECJ judgment on the posting of workers from EU Member States, largely in accordance with EU labour market rules, which are sent by companies based in an EEA Member State to provide temporary employment services to Austria. I am also referring to an amendment tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Csörgits, to the Foreign Employment Act concerning § 18 para. 12 and § 28 para. 1 Z 5 and to the AVRAG concerning § 7b para. 4 and 5 as well as § 19. The amendment has already been distributed, so I can explain it in its cornerstones. This amendment takes into account individual retroactive, from our point of view more formal objections from the European Commission. Furthermore, following the opinion of the Constitutional Service in a constitutional and European manner, the necessary control possibilities should be provided for the admissibility of employment of employees posted to Austria and for compliance with Austrian wage rules, for example by means of appropriate reporting rules, and by carrying out the respective administrative permits, including the associated strict criminal provisions. This scheme is also within the meaning of the taxpayer, because it will most likely and largely no longer result from the judgment of the ECJ. Overall, these changes to the Foreign Employment Act are to be supported, especially with regard to foreign researchers, which will ensure our economic location in Austria sustainablely. I would ask for approval of the law and also of the amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18003	I declare that the request made by Members Amon, Csörgits, colleagues and others in his key points has also been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported; it is therefore part of the negotiations. In view of the extent of the application, I leave it in accordance with § 53 para. Copy and distribute 4 of the Rules of Procedure. In addition, this request will also be accompanied by the Stenographical Protocol. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18150	The next speech is by Mrs Sburny. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18171	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I refer to the reliefs given in this law for researchers or their family members. According to the novel of the Foreign Employment Act, there is a positive aspect which has already been discussed on the morning or at noon, namely that researchers get relief by now working as key workers in Austria and thus can also strive for an indefinite stay here. The only problem is that the quota they fall into has already been used up to 95 percent this year. Apparently, you don't have much confidence in your measure, because it was the desire of the rector conference – the new-earth university conference – to lift this quota for the researchers. You couldn't stand up for that. That means, you obviously don't assume that there'll be a lot more coming, otherwise you'd just see that there's just very little room for play. That means the withdrawal of the quota was not a matter for you. Another criticism is the income threshold. This was also discussed in the review, in which case interestingly by the Chamber of Commerce. “income threshold” means that you have to have a certain income to stay here. At present, 60 percent of the maximum contribution base, which is a little more than €2 300. If you know and think about what income situations young researchers and young scientists are in, you will see that for many people the problem arises that they are not just above this limit. The proposal of the WKO was to make a slight improvement and simply go down to 50 percent once – that would be €1 920 – which is still quite a lot in the area. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's not true!]] You couldn't even get ready for that. So that's really a brave, tiny little improvement you've made in this novel. However, I know that for many researchers it is an important point that their relatives, their spouses or adult children have the opportunity to work in Austria. That means that they see this very positively. That is why, in second reading, we will also agree to this part in order simply to show that, even if it is only a tiny small step, we agree at least to it. But, as I said, this is far from being a real improvement for the research site. A third criticism: At the beginning of this debate in summer, Federal Minister Hahn announced that there will also be improvements for students. In other words, there was an announcement that students will no longer have to prove this suitable residence, or that they will have to carry out aptitude tests, at least in the country, until the outcome of this aptitude test is available, and they will not have to leave between them. In this respect, nothing has happened in the novelle. Hahn didn't get through in this matter at all, and there's nothing going on for the students at all. That is, everything in everything is from our point of view a tiny, really fearless improvement. If this is to happen, what Bartenstein says in an issue in September, in which he says that Austria is, with this tiny novel, becoming one of the most attractive research sites in the international comparison, then I think this can only be described as ridiculous. It really needs different measures: more money for universities, a joint research strategy, improved conditions for women in research and much more. Then we may eventually approach the international standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18208	Next word: Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18229	Mr President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to take a short look at I would like to remind you of what Mr Kickl said in his speech before the urgent question: In fact, all the problems would be solved in Austria if we did not have foreign fellow citizens in Austria and if we did not allow anyone into Austria anymore. I think that this is just a little too short, and I sometimes find it very unbearable, when I listen to the speeches all day, to what pictures the colleagues of the Freedom Party are working with in this House. [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Really, I would like to see a little more constructive work done here and that you would also hear constructive contributions about how to live together with foreigners in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Some comments on the Foreign Employment Act: I don't see it as negative as Mr Sburny, I think that a few steps have been taken to improve this law. For me, it is above all a very good, successful thing that now financially vulnerable people in Austria are being equalized to the aylene-based people on the labour market. I think this change is a good achievement. I would just like to remind colleagues from the Freedom Party that in the event of a return to their country of origin, there is a real risk of human rights violations or a serious threat to their lives or integrity as a result of arbitrary violence. I think everything that we can contribute to the fact that, in fact, we should do together, we should make a living for those in need of support here. I would just like to make a comment and make an appeal to the Minister because, of course, we too are always concerned by social democracy and we must counter the dumping of wages. I would ask you, Minister, to take the social partners' discussions very seriously. Because I think it is mainly about the fears of the people in this country, about fears of workers, and fears we should take politicians very seriously, because fears are always the feeding ground for populists. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18290	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18311	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With this draft law, as already enshrined in the government programme, we are setting up an important measure to strengthen Austria's economic and scientific location. Scientists and researchers have already been excluded from the Foreign Employment Act, and many researchers have already come to our beautiful country to enjoy the safety and high quality of life in Austria. But of course we want to have other good minds with us in Austria, so we have expanded our offer. We have extended the derogation to all scientific activities in all sectors of the economy, in particular research in our enterprises, and also the families of Researchers will be involved. However, their quality of life is also a crucial point that they as family members have the opportunity to work without restrictions in Austria. Especially for our businesses and especially for our innovative SMEs, we create the basis for new developments and international competitiveness. From the point of view of the economy, this package is therefore really welcome. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our economy, and for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, innovative capacity is the prerequisite to exist on the globalised markets. There is already an excellent facility in Lower Austria. This is the low-Austrian Technopol programme, in which already 550 researchers are working. We know that when we think about Austria's economic location, wherever research and development happens in the companies, the company location is also secured, and thus also the workplaces and training places for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18353	The next speaker is Mr Muchitsch. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18375	Mr President. Federal Minister! In the Government Convention, the “Economics/Location/Work”, “Work Market & the Working Environment”, includes objectives and measures to improve workers at work and for the economy and their competitiveness. In point 5, migration, the labour market and employment, a change is agreed in terms of duration and guidelines for granting seasonal permits. That is to say, seasonal approvals should be extended from six months to nine months exclusively for EU citizens and only subject to the condition that they already had or prove temporary employment in Austria over the last three years. The extension of the seasonal kidney scheme to up to nine months for tribal workers is also generally accepted as part of the social security paper “growth and full employment”, but – and this must be maintained – is part of an overall package. That's exactly what we're talking about: This overall package in the labour market and the world of work, as agreed and established in the Government Convention on pages 51 and 52, must be respected and implemented. It would be a fatal mistake if one now believed that only certain raisins could be selected from the social partners' package or from the government agreement. It would also be a fatal mistake to believe that the need for skilled workers in disadvantaged occupations should be covered exclusively from the East and that we do not give our young people a chance for further training. Only a consistent implementation of the chapter “Work Market & Working Environment” in the Government Convention will bring us, as a great coalition, the success we have made. And only further measures against wage and social dumping and combating undeclared work, further improvements in education and training will allow our employees to see their incomes and jobs safely that our economy finds fair conditions of competition at our location in Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18414	Next, Mrs. Dr. Brinek will speak. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18435	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! First of all, I would like to make a correct attitude towards Colleague Sburny: The quota has not been exhausted, it has also been significantly increased for 2007. [[Abg. Sburny: 95 percent!]] – No, in Vienna alone, there are 300 positions that benefit researchers – but not just them. It is also agreed with the social partners for 2008 that the quota will be significantly increased. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... increase the quota!]] And whoever does not want to be in the quota scheme by the researchers, that is to say, who wants to have a temporary stay, will not be counted as the quota at all. So in any case, it's a step forward that I'm looking forward to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also pleased because today we can assume, as you know, Mrs Colleague, that about 20 percent of research investment in foreign companies is being carried out in Austria. The headquarter philosophy and strategy of the Federal Government has therefore always paid off. These companies bring foreign researchers into contact with domestic researchers, thus creating an important fertilization which, on the other hand, – I just want to make this positive – makes it quite more positive that Austrians “go out” as we say so beautifully. On the subject of “Out and Herein, ” this news has given us some joy today: “Etappenwinch für Österreich” (Etappenwinch für Österreich) in the EU-Sache Uni-Quote. [[The speaker holds a newspaper with the appropriate title.]] So that we can be happy about it – here we expressly refer to the good paper, and I thank Minister Hahn and his team for the supply position of the figures, facts and reasons – but this will only make sense if we reach very soon for the extension of § 124b, namely the regulation for the Numerus-clausus subjects, including medicine. Because otherwise we don't need to be happy, otherwise we have faster than we believe, foreign scientists, namely German medical students and dentists at the door. So: Joy and consent to the improvement of foreign employment, great attention, invitation to you all to continue thinking, to continue working and very soon to submit to this happy message also the Austrian solution for which we will still have opportunity.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18511	Mrs Oberhauser is the last speaker on this item on the agenda. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18533	Mr President. Federal Minister! We are also pleased about the success in the European Union, and we are particularly pleased that Mr. Hahn, Minister of State, has, of course, also resorted to the figures that Josef Broukal and I presented to the media two years ago that we are dealing with an blatant medical shortage. So this is a wonderful teamwork of the coalition, and I think we can enjoy it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Josef Broukalist's share debt?]] Today's issue is the Foreign Employment Act; I too would like to dedicate myself to researchers. It has been said a lot. It is possible for the first time that researchers in private areas are also in principle exempted from this Foreign Employment Act. What we lack, however, is the definition: What is research? It is only in the explanations on the draft law that research and development, i.e. the provision of new insights, and the following academic teaching can be understood by research. - It's a little too tight for us. We have tried to research and see if there is the possibility of finding an internationally valid definition of what research is, including private research, and have found in the Technology Report 2007 a statistics dealing with private research workers. These statistics are based on the Frascati manual published by the OECD. I would like to quote from what is referred to as research: As a proven rule, in particular to demarcate the experimental development of production activities, all activities whose primary objective is to further technical improvement of the product or process must be associated with research and development. On the other hand, if the product or process is essentially defined and the primary objective of the further work is market development or if the production system is to be made to function smoothly, these activities can no longer be attributed to research and development. Mr. Federal Minister, we have heard that the working group is also meeting on this subject. We would be very pleased if such a definition were to be included in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18584	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are going to vote on this. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (in the direction SPÖ) What are you doing with the humanities?]] [[President Dr. Spindelegger gives the bell sign.]] – I can ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the places! We now have more than 20 votes to vote. We shall vote on the draft law in 215 of the Supplements. Mr Amon, Mr Csörgits, Mr President, have tabled an amendment or amendment. In addition, Members Kickl, colleagues and I have tabled an amendment. There is also a request from honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts concerned by the supplementary or amending proposals mentioned and on the request for separate vote, in accordance with the legislative classification, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(1). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are standing in for this. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We come to the separate vote of Article 1 (1), (2) and (3), as amended by the Government's proposal. I would ask those Members of the House who have spoken in favour of a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an amendment to Article 1(4). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to give a sign in this regard. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Members Kickl and colleagues have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(7). Whoever stands for it, I ask for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall immediately proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(7), as amended by the Government's proposal. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mr Amon, Mr Csörgits, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(16). Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mr Amon, Mr Csörgits, Mr President, have tabled an amendment which refers to Article 1(20). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand for this to be a sign of confirmation. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 1(21) as amended by the Government template. I ask those Members of the House who are here for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mr Amon, Mr Csörgits, Mr President, have tabled an additional proposal which refers to the insertion of a new point 2a in Article 2. Whoever gives his consent to this supplementary request, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Mr Amon, Mr Csörgits, Mr President, have also tabled an amendment which refers to Article 2(2) and (4). When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Brigid Weinzinger, colleagues in Austria's immigration policy, is evading qualified workers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the amendment of access to the labour market for foreigners from non-EEA countries. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[18:53:56]] Vote on agenda items 1 to 7
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18661	We now reach the one according to § 65 para. 1 Mr Gog put to the vote on agenda items 1 to 7, and I have to vote separately on each committee request. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Childcare Act, the Karenzgeldsgesetz and the General Social Security Act into 229 of the Supplements. Mr Mandak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request. In addition, Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues, tabled an amendment or an additional proposal. There is also an amendment tabled by Mrs Hellerer, Mr Riepl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Finally, there is a desire for a separate vote by Mr Mandak, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, I will first of all vote on the parts of the bill, which correspond to the classification of the law, and, finally, on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt, as part of the Government proposal. Mr Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment to point 2 and point 3 in Article 1. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 in Article 1, as amended by the amendment tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen. and colleagues to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. I shall immediately vote on paragraphs 2 and 3 in Article 1 of the draft law as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask the Members of the House for a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Mr Mandak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. There is also an additional amendment tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, colleagues, who have the content of inserting a point 8a in Article 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 1, point 9, point 15 and paragraph 19, as amended by the Government's proposal. I would like to ask those Members of the House who are speaking for it to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. In addition, Mr Ursula Haubner, colleagues, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 31 in Article 1. Whoever is here, I ask him for a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Finally, Members of Parliament have tabled an amendment concerning Article 1(31). I shall therefore put to the vote on Article 1 (31) as amended by the Government template, taking into account the amendment tabled by Mrs Hellerer, Mr Riepl, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When I agree, I'm looking for an important sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. Finally, I shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template, which have not yet been voted on. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this to give a positive sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 251 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 252 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 253 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall vote on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of its report 254 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 255 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the introduction of a 'family tax division model'. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, colleagues and colleagues on financial security for Austrian families. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give a positive signal. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues and colleagues on the adjustment of the inflation of Austrian family benefits. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Therefore, it is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the request of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection to take note of his 256 report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. Therefore adopted. [[19:00:42]] 10. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (144, D.B._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law against Unfair Competition 1984 – UWG (UWG-Novelle 2007) (236 d.b.) 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (148b._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Federal Act on Safety Measures for Steam boilers, Pressure Containers, Shipping Containers and Pipes (Kesselgesetz) (237 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18946	We now come to the points 10 and 11 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore immediately entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr Zanger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e18977	Mr President. Federal Minister! – Unfortunately not present. - High house! There is probably none of us that would have been in conflict with unfair competition. Just remember that when we get into the Internet, it doesn't take long until any beautiful, colorful boxes flash up that combine with high winning promises the invitation to go to any virtual casino places and get high profits. Similarly, several competition providers benefit from this platform and offer quotas that are similar in their search. A major problem concerns our youth, who is tempted by ringtone offers and various games for their mobile phones to order them, without saying that telephone costs are also charged. Who does not know the e-mails that are offered to us, that our life expectancy should be calculated or that different body parts should be enlarged, and that always at very cheap prices? Who does not know the stock recommendations that should be protected from better, or the promised commissions if you carry out any payment transactions. All of this has a very strong impact on consumers, and there is in the Government Agreement the established position of government parties to devote themselves to Internet crime. No major results have yet been achieved. Not only consumers have the corresponding impact. Let's just think of some slavine, some merchants, mainly from the east or from the Far East, most of them faked, buy cheaply and hand over here in our country to our citizens with high margins! I wonder why the ÖVP remains inactive, which as a self-proclaimed economic party is constantly saying that it is doing something for small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is precisely those who are affected here. In reality, these should be pretty slow about all these fairy tales that tell you, because you don't do anything for them. It is essential to note that there is too little deterrence here. We could imagine, for example, a profit reduction. Of course, it must be executable, that is quite clear and of course. But if we talk about unfair competition here today and about injustices in ourselves, I would like to return very briefly to today's present hour, in which every Member of Parliament has failed to vote in the face of loud self-devotion. I am not ready to join the Minister of Finance from Father to Cardinal. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! However, what is not said is that the current wave of inflation concerns each of our citizens. The rate of inflation in September was over 2%. Food has even increased over 3 percent – and in the case of petrol, we are at the highest prices in history. Nothing is done by the government parties to make it a little more tolerable to the people of simple citizens. We liberals have launched numerous discharge initiatives, in the form of applications, into the committees. And what are you doing there? – Yes, that’s all very right and important and beautiful, and you’ll delay it on the Sankt-Nimmerleins Day, which is supposed to be sometime in 2010, where the big tax reform will come shortly before the elections. If you try to assure people that the great relief will come, but if you pull out the three or four times the amount of money you will then make available to them years ago, then this is also unfair competition, and we liberals are not to have for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19025	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19046	Mr President. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! What Mr Zanger has just given of himself, in particular his statements at the end of his speech, was a very wide, very extensive interpretation of the issue of “unfair competition”. This is a relatively harmless novel that is implemented here. It is essentially a requirement of the EU that is implemented accordingly. What the starting point is, you have actually described it correctly. There are cases of problem. These are largely related to the fact that we now have new technologies and that many providers are hiding behind these new technologies. Therefore, the right of information, the obligation to provide information, is now regulated in the form of very precise rules. I also think that it is now comprehensible in terms of the cost issue and that the protection needs of companies are nevertheless covered accordingly. I also think that with regard to the prepayment of costs in the case of judgment, this is regulated in such a way that it also takes account of the economic possibilities of undertakings as regards the advance. That is why we think that this is a very balanced novel. What remains open and what we really need to discuss is the question of profits, which some would have liked to see settled. That's very difficult. If it were so simple that you could clearly count exactly this measure and exactly this profit, then economies would be very simple. Unfortunately, it is not. That is why we are likely to argue about definition problems and then the measures in the implementation of the discussion. Otherwise, what is available here is a very welcome approach, which we would like to agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19080	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 5 minutes' speaking time, Mr President. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19103	Mr. Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, the implementation of this EU Directive is sensible and necessary. Unfortunately, only half of things are done here again. Even the board of lawyers criticises that this law is completely non-consumer-friendly, difficult to read and not easy to understand. What I can't understand, however, is the fact that there are not at last nails made with heads here, protecting companies that do not comply with the laws and that the UWG is under permanent ban. Why this client is not being held responsible, but is protected, no one really understands. Many of the abuses that exist in this area are certainly known to you. I can tell you, for example, from my old practice, ladies and gentlemen. Products are always offered that do not correspond to what they are considered to be. [[Call the SPÖ:Yes, of course!]] I only take as an example: There are plenty of organic products that are not organic products. And what happens? Just take the last scandal! There are millions of eggs coming to Austria, which are normally from legged batteries and have been declared organic eggs. What's going on? The supplier enters the money, gets a small penalty, and the profit goes to the millions. He'll do that again next time. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] - Sure! They should first and foremost take care of the righteous companies and protect them from unfair competition. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is not possible to impose a bagatll penalty on companies. They pay them with the left and the resultant profit they make. He's abducted. I believe that all illegal profits in this respect belong to abducted. But also the off-line on the Internet, especially in winnings, finally belongs to a bar. I can only quote what Minister Buchinger said in the Consumer Protection Committee on 27 July. He said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Unusual competitions and offers on the Internet, which serve the benefit of the discount, should be better combated by an addition of the enrichment to UWG as in the Federal Republic of Germany. At present, there is only the right to be abandoned, with the prey, the profit, but the unscrupulous company, which, a week later, is looting the people under a similar mesh. In particular, the profits obtained in this context could thus be exhausted. - Quote. Of course, I ask myself the question: Where do consumer protectionists actually stay in the SPÖ? Until when do you want to implement your goals of a comprehensive UWG reform? Or do you push them back to the long bank? In principle, this innovation is an improvement for companies. Ensuring fairer competition is an essential basis for an attractive economic location and thus also serves employment. But this innovation does not go far enough for consumers, and the withdrawal will go as far as it has been. That is why we cannot accept this request. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Regrettably!]] On the amendments to the Kesselgesetz, it should only be said that this is an ECJ and that it is only natural that in future not only authorised Austrian companies, but also those with a seat in the EU or in the EEA Kessel in Austria, will be able to examine, of course, always provided that they also have the qualification and the concession for it. And one thing is particularly important to me, namely the determination of the place of jurisdiction of Austria, where they carry on the activity. The greater number of suppliers makes it possible for the operator of pressure equipment to choose the favourable offers for him, i.e. on the free market. If we deliver to the EU or to the EEA, other companies may also deliver to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19189	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Johann Maierzu Wort. Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure: first of all, to mention the facts to be corrected and to reject them. No political appreciation! And that in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19216	Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker, Mr Schalle, has claimed that in the case of the egg dealer Schlögl, who has spent millions of eggs from Holland in Burgenland, he has been labeled as Austrian free-land eggs – not organic eggs – by which UWG cannot be persecuted. I'm correcting: Rather, it is true that this egg dealer Schlögl, as well as all others, could be persecuted at any time by means of the law against unfair competition. It is also true that, according to the case law of the Supreme Court and now also after the new wording of the law against unfair competition, any injured person can claim damages.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19243	Next, Mr Dkfm. Dr. Bauer speaking. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19265	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a very simple thing to estimate this UWG novelle. On the one hand, it is an adaptation to the European directive, but it goes beyond that, and that is very good for us. As has been pointed out, fair competition is a part of our economic system, and that is why we need to do everything we can to secure and guarantee fair competition. I believe that this legal approximation across Europe is important for safety, not only for consumers but also for competitors. On the one hand, this is a law for consumers and for consumer protection, but also for competitors on the market, because aggressive and not completely fair practices are simply eliminated. I therefore believe that it is equally important for the entrepreneurs themselves. I would just like to make a few points, which I think are important: For example, the possibility of persecuting unfair practices to the competitor is created, thus also creating fairer competition. There is also a protection for new self-employed people, especially for one-person companies in dual function as competitors and as contracting partners. I also believe that it is important to counteract what one hears from some industries: that one can only survive if one is not quite fair. That's something I absolutely reject. Then: It would be wrong for one to trigger a kind of chain reaction here in sectors which are, of course, particularly affected by the competition. However, it is not possible to tolerate active social fraud or overtime. I do not think that is fair, and that is why we must fight against it. Mr Mitterlehner also raised the question of what could have been contained. Of course, I believe that an extension of the information requirements of the postal and telecom sectors could also be made to periodic media and call centers. You can discuss this, and we should discuss it next time. There is also a need to discuss the possibility of any sanctions on profits – wrong profits, as they are also called. Easy to solve – I admit that – it will not be. Nevertheless, the next novel should address this issue, which should be taken into account.– Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19307	The next speaker is Mrs Hradecsni. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19328	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Directive on unfair business practices to be transposed by this amendment obliges Member States to adopt appropriate and effective means to combat unfair business practices in the interests of consumers. In our view, this has not been sufficiently implemented. Granted, there are some improvements for consumers, but the decisive means for us is not involved – we have heard it more often today – the profit-out. The introduction of a right to profit would have a dissuasive effect, particularly in the area of distance selling law. All consumer protection organisations and the Ministry of Consumer Protection agreed on this, and in fact my previous speakers also agreed on it. We are all aware of the need for this dissuasive effect. Finally, a five-party application was adopted with the aim of intervening a package of measures against Internet crime, as well as against unscrupulous and illegal Internet services. It is also noted in the Government Convention – and this has already been mentioned today – that the opportunities for protecting consumers and the economy against unreasonable providers on the Internet need to be strengthened. Given the fact that there are up to 400 Internet fraud cases per day across Austria – that is, high-valued including the dark count in Austria in about 4,000 cases per week – and if you consider that a single case is about €59 to €150, you can imagine what amounts it is here. According to the current legal situation – and it is now also determined – companies that are unlawfully enriched by lock offers or alleged free offers can in any case retain this wrong profit. In any case, there is a risk of injunction, and that is relatively little dissuasive and very toothless. The claim for information also helps relatively little, because the claim for information would make a lot of sense if it were in the Follow the Sanctions Possibility to levy profits. Therefore, the negative attitude towards profit-making is neither comprehensible nor objectively well-founded. Mr Bartenstein, you argued in committee that Internet pages from abroad would not be accessible to our case law. This is wrong, at least in the EU, because, under the Brussels I Regulation, there is a consumer court, according to which the consumer is at least at the disposal of the nearest local court for a complaint. This consumer court also includes Internet issues. Further enforcement of a judicial decision is ensured by agreements across the EU. In addition, there are already several associations of the VKI on behalf of the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection against German and Swiss Internet operators. Regrettably, Mr Maier from the SPÖ also joined the Minister and said in the Committee that it would be necessary to wait until the presence of international experiences. Firstly, from my point of view, there is nothing against Austria's pioneering role, but also this experience already exists, in Germany, where the requirement for profit-making has been too narrow and is restricted to intentional action. This has proved to be not very useful, since the intention is very difficult to prove. That is why, in an analogous way to the proposal of the Chamber of Labour, we are calling for a profit levy already in grossly negligent action. On the argument you have proposed, Mr Bartenstein, that it would be very difficult to determine the value of profits, I do not want to go into it for long, I just want to say that we already have the profit levy. In criminal law, in antitrust law, in telecommunications law and in various others Laws already exist, and there seems to be a very good deal of the problem of winning analysis. So there is no comprehensible argument for me that is against the immediate inclusion of profits and not only in the future UWG-Novelle. For this reason, I would like to make the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19423	The amendment tabled by Mrs Hradecsni is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19503	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19524	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Internet undoubtedly has many sun and some shade pages, and Mrs Hradecsni has just addressed a section of these shadow pages. Fraglos is driven here by a lot of Schindluder. Fraglos exists the crime of the excavator. Of course, it is true that – theoretically – legal enforcement within the European Union would also be possible for websites registered there – more difficult than in Austria – but not all websites have an address in the European Union. It is clear that, in some respects, we are now not only doing pure EU implementation with this UWG novelle, but also going a little further. I think it is appropriate for us to say quite consciously that unfair competition is not only at the company level, but also at the level between businesses and consumers, and therefore this two-way approach is also very reasonable in the EU Business to Business and Business to Consumer Directive. But if we consider that the EU Directive alone lists 31 acts of aggressive and misleading business practices, it becomes very quickly apparent that it is not quite easy to give each of these practices an unfair and thus exhausted profit. If it were so simple, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's antitrust guards would not also help with the amount of sales. We often read that the competition authority of the European Commission has up to 10 percent the annual turnover of an undertaking may be exhausted if cartel infringements of a grosser kind are demonstrated. Fast shots are never good, in this area absolutely not. It is an expert group of UWG. It is already working under the broad participation of leading judges, social partners and others. If there are practical solutions in the area of profit-exhaustion, I am quite prepared to accept these proposals, but only if they are practical and in-depth and do not constitute rapid shots. It is so easy to say that the calculation is not so difficult. She's difficult. And if the President of the OGH has objected to the current proposals, even profits could be exhausted without harming consumers at all, then it is questionable whether these proposals meet the requirement of practicality. It is also reasonable, when models already exist in other countries, to wait for the practical experience there. In Germany, there has been no special experience, and this is certainly important for us, because, unlike other EU countries, especially Germany and Austria are such EU Member States, in which unfair competition has been properly controlled and, as has been said, we will probably not be as different from the previous legislation, even in the case of case law. Mr Mitterlehner, you have already mentioned the satisfactory handling of the cost advance issue. For the information claim – because that was noted by honourable Member Bauer –: I think it makes sense for you first to see if you can reach agreement with the respective economic circles. This was now not possible in the short term with the representative of the call centre, namely the Chamber of Commerce, and the representative of the print media, namely the Association of Austrian Newspaper Publishers, but I do not rule out the fact that at a later date – if it goes on, on the basis of a consensus with the relevant economic circles – it is still possible to do so because, of course, many participants in the competition today have the opportunity to hide themselves not only behind postal numbers, but also behind Internet addresses and the like, and some consumers, some competitors here rightly want to know who he is dealing with. And this improvement is to be taken into account. So in total, a good step in the right direction, because one is clear: Fair competition is good and important both in terms of business life and in terms of business and business, but also from the point of view of consumers, because quality and reasonable prices are usually guaranteed by fair competition. And this UWG-Novelle is supposed to make a contribution to this. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19580	The next speech is by Mrs Mikesch. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19601	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian law against unfair competition has so far been a very mature law with established case law in Europe. We're on our way Austria has always had a very broad approach both to the protection of consumers and to the protection of competitors. With the UWG-Novelle 2007, we are making an adjustment to the EU directive on unfair business practices, which will make the law even more effective and support fair competition. The inclusion of a black list annexed to those cases of misleading and aggressive business practices, which are at least regarded as unfair business practices, will lead to greater transparency. With the new UWG, we have an extended tool to deal effectively with those black sheep who do not comply with the rules of a fair competition. In addition to consumers, it is also our small and medium-sized enterprises that benefit from the Europe-wide single system. We want to ensure fair competition, because about 70 percent of our total exports to the EU amount to € 103 billion. It is therefore very important for our economic location that this harmonisation is carried out.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19643	Next, Mr Magistrate. Maier speaking. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19665	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I say it quite openly: I too am in favour of punishing companies that are unfair and not rewarded. [[Abg. Sound: But you act differently!]] I, too, am in favour of a profit levy or, Mr Schalle, a ponale. For there are acts – I am asking you to look at the 31 acts of the UWG – in which a calculation of profit is not possible. Mr Schalle, there is a decision by the Supreme Court on misleading information in instructions for use. I ask you, I ask all the political groups: How do you calculate the profit in case of misleading information in a instructions for use? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sounds.]] Next decision of the Supreme Court: Internet advertising with non-available products. I ask you all, the ÖVP, the BZÖ, the liberals, the Greens, I also look at my group: How to calculate the profit in these cases? - He's not predictable. I think we have to get away from the concept of ‘gathering up’. I would like to thank the Federal Minister, who has highlighted a way forward, which must be discussed in the working group, for the fact that there is a turnover reduction. This antitrust approach should be pursued from my point of view. We should not only discuss profits, but also possible pönals. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! With this new UWG, consumer rights are strengthened, serious, honest entrepreneurs are protected, and there is a uniform legal situation across Europe in relation to the old legal situation. Misleading advertising and aggressive business practices can be more easily combated by injunctions. Let me give you two examples: We have a filling of pre-packs of food. 14.6 percent of all controlled packaging of fruit and vegetables was under-filled in 2006. With this new regulation, we can deal specifically with competition organisers – an old concern of the Social Democratic Group. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Riepl.]] Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We assume that in the second phase to prepare the major UWG-Novelle, the open questions will be resolved in the working group set up for this purpose, namely the question of how to actually meet our major entrepreneurs via a penalty payment, a turnover tax levy or a profit levy, as well as an information requirement for call centre and print media. We need to discuss these matters seriously. I am, however, good courage and hope, Minister of State, that we will also come to an agreement here. Ladies and gentlemen, I invite you to vote with us today on this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19713	Mr Mag. Kogler is the next speaker. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19735	Mr President. Minister! State Secretary! Yes, Mr Maier, we agree. Very simple: half full, half empty – in the UWG area an improvement and no deterioration is recognizable. If you're serious, you have to agree. It should be said, Mr Veit Sounde, that you justify your rejection in addition to that. But it will be better, especially since, in addition, we are essentially common law by means of directive implementation in our laws, if we want to do so, because we must never wait any longer, which, by the way, also applies to the other item to be discussed and voted on. You could be done with this. Of course: UWG – classic, there are two things normized. Free competition, of course, needs half the rules for the supposedly freely applied companies to each other. More and more – even earlier, but more and more – consumer protection implications are moving in here in the norms – I should be right about everything. It is important now, as far as the so-called profit-exhaustion is concerned – and it should sometimes be said differently – that the future solution of the pre-respective ponization – I now say “pönisation”, not “pönale”! – which is what is to be paid, when it is acted unfairly and an advantage is reaped from it, from me – now we both have concepts in place to communicate between you and Mrs. Col. Hradecsni – it must, so to speak, be made a correlation between what is to be paid when this is suspected and what he himself can expect as a profit. Only then does it produce the corresponding prophylactic effect. And to that – as simple as it is, I think, at the end – it is supposed to aim primarily. In principle, one does not want to have that law to “beg after all” and then the difficulties that have been mentioned here. Nevertheless, it must be implemented legally. We believe that profit-out was still the case. The OGH has, of course, made its interpretations on other occasions, but according to my modest view of the law, it should also be possible for an authority to be stopped within one The legislative margin here used for the profit-added use of certain parameters without organising a cost-invoicing seminar. In any case, the essential principle has been described before – there we all agree. In some direction it will have to go, but now our approval. The second item on the agenda, which is being discussed here, is also interesting; it should not be mentioned. This is where we are speeding up the implementation rules of EU directives. We see, of course, that the implementation of the Services Directives already requires some grips in the country, as one can do with it. I do not agree that this has been resolved in such a way that we too can agree. I do not want to go into detail now, which is actually a bit more complicated, just mentioning so much that the government template can be drawn up and that the officials or you, Mr Minister, have succeeded in making a distinction in this whole boiler matter between those certification procedures that concern whether boilers are allowed, and those which are concerned with maintaining the continuous safety in operation. That makes sense, I think. It is still relatively far in favour of the Austrian providers in this area. That is why we also agree to this. But one thing is already going to be recognizable: The whole implementation of this EU service directive story, where the Green Group in the European Parliament has not finally agreed to do so, will still require a number of legal requirements. Whether you or we succeed so well every time, keep waiting. But now I'm happy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19786	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19807	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour has prepared this novel very carefully. This is also confirmed by the experts in their statements. The Austrian economy is committed to a functioning protection against unfair competition and expressly maintains the importance of the right against unfair competition in the interest and protection of companies acting in accordance with competition law. If the EU Directive focuses on consumer protection, our UWG offers comprehensive consumer protection as well as protection against unfair competition within companies after the novelle 2007. Without a doubt, a legal approach is necessary in order to be able to deal with unfair, misleading and aggressive business practices. Especially in Internet trade, as we have heard many times today, such practices are being applied repeatedly and also in dubious competitions. Ladies and gentlemen! However, it is also unfair when market participants offer black jobs. Our UWG would provide a very good basis for corresponding damages. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19850	Next, Mr Riepl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19871	Mr President. It has already been carried out: The amendment of the law against unfair competition essentially complies with an EU directive. There is therefore a legal approximation within the States of the European Community. There will be 31 definitions in a catalogue of aggressive and misleading business practices, which, I believe, are very important and useful for orientation. I would like to point out a fact - my previous speaker mentioned this subject very briefly - which seems to me particularly important, namely that this law also covers violations of labour law, i.e. black jobs, non-compliance with collective contracts, social fraud as a competitive advantage. All these points are included in what may not be so well known in connection with this law, and I would therefore like to point out in particular that this is not to be forgotten. It is precisely these points that prevent fair competition. And with this, this law is also a useful tool for combating all illegal practices at work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19904	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19926	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The Kesselgesetz was also prepared and amended in a very comprehensive manner by the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour, as it has already been said. This change was necessary because the current law provides for a seat requirement for accredited companies and for audit firms. This provision was certainly in order because it also meant to ensure security. After all, steam boilers are devices that are easy to operate, but because of lime and poor maintenance can also be quite dangerous. It is also true that safety is given a high priority here. The ECJ judgment has considered this seat requirement to be superfluous and to be a violation of the freedom to provide services and services and thus contrary to European law. That is why the law had to be changed. However, it is still taken into account in safety. Companies entitled to examine must be accredited to the Federal Ministry, the technical requirements, technical requirements and insurance protection must prove that is very important, and of course also the jurisdiction in Austria. It is also necessary to provide a list of audit projects to enable the Authority to monitor them. I think that's what's in line with security. For the economy, I see an advantage as we have a wider offer and may also be able to achieve better prices for the exams. And, as I said, security is enough done. I am pleased that the Greens agree. If they had known that hotel laundry also operate steam boilers, then they would probably have today Not approved. Today we will hear again in the cable car law that they do not want tourism. However, I am still pleased that all political groups agree to this law and congratulate the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19971	The last speaker on this item on the agenda is Mr Kirchgatterer. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e19992	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Bartenstein! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I too would like to refer to item 11 of the agenda. In the future, in Austria, not only the five Austrian bodies, but also those who have their seat in the EU or the EEA, will be able to carry out repeated tests on boilers and pressure containers in Austria – equipment which, in some cases, pose high risks in the event of improper maintenance and service. It is important in this innovation that, in addition to opening the market, measures such as the increased obligation to provide information, sanctions and the establishment of the court in Austria are also included. But above all, accreditation in Austria will be necessary for new boiler testing facilities – not in the country of origin; this is very important. It is necessary to have the services checked in advance in the Austrian Federal Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, this ensures the highest level of safety for very many people working in industry and industry, the highest level of safety in and for establishments in our country. The discussion on the boiler law began in 2001. This novel provides fair conditions and fair competition. Personally, I am very happy about the unanimity, the unanimity of this government proposal in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and I am already grateful for the approval here in the National Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20030	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat so that we can come to the vote. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft UWG-Novelle 2007 in 236 of the Supplements. Mr Hradescni, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional request. First of all, I shall vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law and the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. Mr Hradescni, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal which contains the inclusion of a point 13b. I am looking for a sign of this to those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking in favour of it. – This is the minority. Rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law on UWG-Novelle 2007 and the title and receipt in 236 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. Accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who are also in third reading for this draft law, to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. Finally, we come to the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Federal Act on safety measures for steam boilers, pressure tanks, shipping containers and pipelines, together with the title and entry in 148 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:48:30]] 12. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government template (216 e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Patent Act 1970, the Model Law, the Patent Contracts Introduction Act, the Protective Certificate Act 1996, the Trademark Protection Act 1970 and the Patent Office Fees Act (238 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20125	We're on our way to the 12. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Pirklhuber. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20155	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! On the one hand, the proposed legislation deals with issues relating to patent rights, on the other hand with issues relating to the trademark protection and protection certificate law. We can imagine giving our consent to the latter at second reading – we will do the same. However, we cannot give this consent to the patent changes. We reject them. And I would like to explain this in the following. On the one hand, it is about adapting to international conventions, in particular the WTO TRIPS agreement, which concerns intellectual property aspects of commercial law, and on the other hand adapting to EU patent agreements. But to date, this federal government has not been able to launch an initiative to effectively prevent patents on life. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government Convention clearly states the commitment to non-genotechnic agriculture in Austria. A key part of this perspective is also to prevent patents on life safely. Of course, we know the legal situation. The legal situation is marked by the fact that we have the EU Biopatent Directive at European level. It was implemented almost one-to-one in Austria under the old government in June 2005. And there, Mr President, it was no longer possible to implement a purposeful chemical protection instead of absolute chemical protection. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: That you formulate it properly!]] This would have been possible at least within the framework of the European Directive. Not even this frame, this room has been exhausted at the time. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, I would like to remind you: Her colleague Ulli Sima, today's councillor in Vienna, at the time and also today has been massively committed to GMO-free agriculture and food production and has also warned of this patent right, as it is currently established at European level. What have you done so far to start an initiative here? - Nothing! The most serious lack of EU legislation is ultimately the lack of a demarcation to the living nature. Mrs. State Secretary! This is a key issue where European people, people in Europe, are concerned because they fear that interventions are taking place, then by large multinational corporations, and there are already enough examples of massive exploitation against the interests of consumers, against the interests of farmers who deal with these products, such as seeds or animals. I would also like to explain where this problem lies in the Patent Act as part of Austrian implementation. I take a quote: § 1: “Biological material that is isolated or produced by means of a technical process from its natural environment, even if it was already present in nature” – even if it was already present in nature! –, is patentable. This is contained in the Austrian Patent Act, and that would mean quite specifically that, for example, natural genes for sugar from the sugar beet or for fat content in the sunflower or for essential oils in the peppermint are patentable. And that is absolutely unacceptable from our point of view. Similarly, there is the possibility of patenting plant species in total, not individual varieties, these cannot be patented, but entire species spectra can be patented, and we strongly reject that. Similarly, the products that are grown with these plants can or must be subject to the license, so to speak, to licensing fees. Look, at European level, there are a number of patents, I could list you a sum, patents from the companies Monsanto, Pioneer Hi-Bred, a daughter of one of the largest chemical companies, of DuPont. There is even a patent from the Australian company Amrad. This has a patent for the production of a non-human shimary animal, which means it comes from a cross of a living being of human and animal genes. There is also a patent protection at European level on this product. You see, there is a strong need for action here. Ladies and gentlemen, another reason to reject this amendment to the Patent Act is that the Biopatent Monitoring Committee, which was set up in 1998 and for which there was also a government template – 91 of the supplements, there was a government paper, but it was not included – was not incorporated into the Patent Act. There is even a criticism by the Minister for Consumer Protection Buchinger, an opinion on this proposal, which is very bright from our point of view. I expect this report and this committee, Mrs State Secretary, to be discussed here in the House in the next few days. I would therefore like to conclude with the demands of the genetic engineering people’s desire – I remember: 1.2 million Austrians signed this genetic engineering volks desire ten years ago and then did not demand a patent for life – submit the following application: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen! This motion for a resolution is a very important opportunity to continue in the context of the patent right these demands of the genetic engineering people's desire and to make this demand a political statement at European level, so to speak. I would therefore ask you to support this. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20219	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Pirklhuber is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20295	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20317	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber has once again raised a problem which, although not really directly related to today's agenda, is nevertheless an important issue on which Parliament has quite to discuss. I just want to focus on a very short sequence of these novels. Following the decision-making of these legal changes, there is now the possibility that corporations that develop patented drugs or medicines specifically for young people up to 18 years of age will receive extended patent protection. At the request of these applicants, it is possible to extend these legal protection periods and obtain protection certificates at the Patent Office. I believe that this is reasonable and should be an animation, but more special drugs for young people, developing for children, and finally getting away from damage known to us, false drug doses for children and infants. So one, as I think, to produce good animo for pharmaceutical companies, better, more reasonable and healthier drugs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20347	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Oh, no, no, 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20368	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the High House! On the one hand, this is an adaptation to the European Patent Convention, on the other hand, to the implementation of the Regulation on pharmacovigilance medicines, which Mr Gartlehner has just described here, which is a better development, and on the other hand, the application for these protection certificates should also be made to the Patent Office. The third area affects accompanying measures for the protection of agricultural products and foodstuffs. This is exactly the point, Mr Pirklhuber, where we are talking about patent protection on foodstuffs and not about patent-to-life. That is, we in Austria, we from the ÖVP, too, are protecting geographical indications, designations of origin for food and agricultural products. And that's what it's gonna do now. I should like to mention a few examples. It is about Austrian products such as the Wachauer Marille or the Styrian nuclear oil or the Gailtaler Speck et cetera. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] They have given a view of a time that may not exist at all, or something is trying to paint on the wall. But this is really about these flanking measures, which, in part, go primarily towards electronic publication of the application, and then on the establishment of a national opposition procedure. There are some improvements to this patenting. And I think we should continue to use it. We have already awarded very many pleasure regions in Austria, especially through Minister of Life Pröll. I would like to see a lot of products that are worthy of protection. And we should work on that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20411	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20432	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! First: We agree with this change of law. It is certainly useful to vote here with the European Patent Convention. Secondly, However, it is important to clarify whether the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs should really be responsible for these issues in the future, because the Patent Office is part of the BMVIT. We therefore believe that BMVIT or at least the Ministry of Justice should be responsible for patent issues. Thirdly, ==References====External links== A substantial decision has been taken on April. A framework agreement establishing a transatlantic Economic Community between the EU and the USA has been concluded. The purpose of this whole decision or framework agreement was to relieve large companies of burden so that they can produce cheaper, so that they can find fewer obstacles in their business. This may have far-reaching consequences for Europeans. It also states that property rights should be respected. And these property rights are also to be understood as patent rights. If one continues to pursue this and suspects a little, then we could flourish that the release of gene seed in this way takes place in Austria and in Europe and threatens our peasantry without any solution. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] As Mr Pirklhuber has said, Monsanto has many, many patents that could then become effective, and there are many different areas affected. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20505	The motion for a resolution tabled by Members Grastaur and other Members is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore part of the debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20607	The next speaker was Mr Schalle. You've been registered for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20628	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! - She's gone. – It is about the Patent Act 1970. The main purpose of the amendment is to adopt additional measures to the EU Regulation, which will apply directly in the Member States. This is the regulation on children's medicinal products and on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin for agricultural products and foodstuffs. It is also necessary to adapt the provisions on invention to the European Patent Convention. I should like to comment very briefly on Mr Pirklhuber's motion for a resolution on the implementation of the Biopatent Directive and on his demands for a ban on the patenting of living beings. We have not made it easy during our government participation in the implementation of this directive. A parliamentary survey was even organised to this end. However, the fact is that the directive clearly states that the human body is not patentable in the individual stages of its development and development. In principle, we are going to give this novelle our approval. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the many excellent employees of the Austrian Patent Office for their activity in the background, but in the interest of Austria, in particular for securing the local economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20665	As the next speaker, Mr Mayer is speaking with 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20687	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a positive look at the whole thing in my remarks and point to the enormous importance that the Patent Act, which is being amended today, has for our Austrian Patent Office. I know that the Patent Act refers to the EPC, the European Patent Convention, and must be brought into line with it. I would, however, like to say a few words. point out the additional challenges to be addressed by the Patent Office. The new Federal Government has undertaken with clear objectives to significantly increase financial resources and personal efforts in the areas of innovation, research, technology and development. We all know that this will be an essential impetus for strengthening the economic location. The concrete objective is to increase the research rate to 3 percent by 2010. This, in turn, means to the Austrian Patent Office that it must meet the increasing needs of our business for industrial property rights, in particular patents. In 2006, 3 666 inventions were notified, of which 1,664 were submitted by Austrians. In the Bundesländer-Rankang is Oberösterreich with 744 invention applications in the top square in front of Vienna with 673, the Styria lies at 3rd place at 580. For international patent applications, the year 2006 was also a record year with 145 300 applications. From Austria 815 applications for an international patent are received. However, the Austrian Patent Office is also worldwide in the small, exclusive circle of the patent offices that play in the absolute international elite. In his capacity as an international search and investigation authority, Austria's Patent Office prepares 1,000 test reports annually, mainly for Korea, Singapore, India, Brazil and South Africa. The traditional skills of Austrian research and innovation include new emerging areas such as biotechnology, transport research, aerospace, material and nano technology, information technology, environmental and energy technology. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this will also bring the exciting discussion for the future when it comes to the problem areas of biopatents. The first report of the Biopatent Monitoring Committee established for this purpose will in all cases bring a lot of ignition. We wish the Austrian Patent Office with the new and major tasks, which will continue to be determined by this law, all the good and good for the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20742	The next speaker was Mr Obernoster. You've done 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20763	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I am talking about the amendment of the 1970 Mark Protection Act, which was necessary to simply have more protection for the consumer and for the producer. However, it is also about having greater legal certainty for the producer, because it simply achieves a certain degree of legal protection in the interests of the economic location. But it is also important to the consumer for better information, because he often really does not know what he is buying and what is inside. However, it is also a question of securing traditional culinary specialities in their origin; therefore also the protected designation of origin and geographical indication. What is a protected designation of origin? – ‘Original designation’ means the name of an area or place by which an agricultural product or a food is designated, which owes its quality and characteristics to that geographical area and which is produced, processed and produced in that limited area. The entire production process of the product must be carried out in the area, which in addition to marketing means an application of the economic location and the tourist location Austria. We know many of these products. These are the Gailtal Almkäse, the Tyrolean Alpkäse, the Gailtal bacon or, as I said, the Styrian pumpkin kernel oil and – exactly! – Waldviertler Graumohn and the carp. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: The Waldviertler Carp!]] All in all, as I mean, 13 products have been taken up, and that is the safety. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20800	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech at 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20821	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Although the draft legislation on the patent law on voting goes beyond mandatory implementation of mandatory rules, these measures are necessary to harmonise national provisions with those of the European Patent Convention. In summary, this means that it is important for the EU and, hopefully, also for Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20849	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law in 216 of the Supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues with regard to Articles IV, V and VI of the draft law. I shall first vote on the parts concerned by the request and then on the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, together with the title and receipt, in the version of the Government template. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Articles IV, V and VI as amended by the Government's proposal, and I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this, to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber, colleagues on no patent on life. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Grastaur, colleagues on Transatlantic Free Trade Area. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:14:07]] 13. Point Report of the Transport Committee on the Government Template (217 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Roads Act 2002 and the ASFINAG Act (239 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20946	We're going to the 13th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs. Dr. Moser is speaking. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e20973	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation of the EU Road Costs Directive by this law is, in principle, quite acceptable; it brings some improvements, we are on the road in accordance with EU standards. However, opportunities have not been realized that open up the implementation of the EU Directive, and therefore we will unfortunately have to reject this Federal Roads Act and the ASFINAG Act. This for a very simple reason: They even lower the penalties for tolling! Currently, the handlebars have to pay 400 € if they have not checked in properly with the electronic toll, in the future the penalty scale will be reduced to 300 €. I am quite clear that this is a concern of the Chamber of Workers that wants to protect and protect “the vehicles driven by entrepreneurs” – under quotation marks. We have always been responsible for the fact that the companies should be responsible and the companies for tolling and not the drivers. But you just lower the corresponding penalties. – This is one reason for our rejection. The other reason for our rejection is that, under the title “Ecologisation of the truck toll”, you significantly favour transit by truck in Austria. The transit trucks are modern, relatively harmful trucks, and they are to be favoured in the future by the scale of the toll heights you are planning and pay less toll. In contrast, the old instincts are supposed to pay more toll. There is only relatively little of that, and in this respect your implementation of the EU Directive is actually counterproductive, so to speak, of your cheap tariff policy for transit trucks. To sum up, we would have expected a more moderate approach to the implementation of the EU Road Costs Directive. Minister Faymann – Mrs State Secretary, you know – has promised a doubling of the truck toll. None of this is the case now; I know that EU negotiations are a condition. In addition, the Alpine transit exchange was discussed, and here too there is no excuse. I personally would have liked to ask the Minister for Transport whether he is finally putting on the agenda for the next EU Presidency of Slovenia the reform of this EU Road Costs Directive in order to relieve the transient population. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21013	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurt Edermit 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21037	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Moser, I am absolutely not your opinion in this case, because the opportunities that give us this new opportunity, namely the amended road cost directive, have been more than exhausted. Now, a clear financing possibility is possible from the road to the rail, just what the Brennermaut is going on, and thus also a better financing of the Brenner Base Tunnel. In your statement as to transit trucks and pollutant emissions, I can't follow the logic that was employed here either. We should be glad if the trucks emit less pollutants than before. We cannot reward those who emit a lot of pollutants, but we must reward those who produce little pollutant. That is why I believe that the way to go is the right one. However, an amendment to this Regulation is also envisaged to provide an incentive for vehicle drivers in Vorarlberg to continue using the toll network, despite the narrowness of the toll tunnel, for a lower toll of € 2 in one direction within 24 hours. A colleague from Vorarlberg will comment on this. We believe that through this amendment and this measure, a discharge is being made of those communities and urban areas in Vorarlberg through which the toll refugees are now passing through. We hope that they will stay on the motorway. There are still a few speakers from my group who will comment on the other points. I would like to end my speech at this point for the sake of time-term economics. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21074	Thank you, honourable Member. – Mr Themessl was next mentioned with 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21096	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Among other things, it is also about the introduction of a vignette at the A 14 in Vorarlberg, which limits corridors to Hohenems, and for this reason – and not only for this reason! – we will reject this bill. I have already explained in detail to the Transport Committee why and why: because a shift of a problem can never and never be a solution. In short, to illustrate: The country of Vorarlberg is extremely small, has say and write 63,4 kilometres of motorway and also has the advantage that it is located in the four-country corner of Germany, Switzerland, Liechtenstein and Austria. If you want to make a request here, which makes sense, then you have to do this vignette – there it goes It is not about freeing the vignette, but about a daily vignette, which will cost 2 € per way – extend to the whole country. This would have the advantage of serving all Swiss borders, including the Liechtenstein border, and thus not even causing additional traffic problems in the region of Kummenberg or in the district of Dornbirn, only to slightly improve them in Bregenz. That doesn't make any sense. Since you still have enormous loads of width on the drivers – with the standard consumption tax, with the motor insurance tax, with the mineral oil tax which you have also increased, in addition to the motorway vignette and in addition with individual tolls in various tunnels, if you use it – I have two more applications here to improve this situation. In the last eight years, since 1999, they have increased the financial burden of road transport by 65 percent, and in order to counter-tax, we have put in the following two requests: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] Another suggestion to my Vorarlberg colleagues here in the National Council: If you want to please the country of Vorarlberg and, of course, the neighbouring partners in Switzerland – I have not tabled any amendment – then you still have the opportunity to improve your senseless request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21170	The two motions for resolutions tabled by honourable Member Themessl are properly tabled, sufficiently supported and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21262	I shall be next to Mr Magistrate. Kukacka the word for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21284	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The criticism by Mrs Moser and also by Mr Themessl really cannot join me. Mrs Moser, you know that this toll law lays down the obligation to differentiate toll rates according to euro-emission classes. In other words, we have the opportunity to strengthen the use of older so-called Stinker trucks and to tax new, modern, low-pollutant trucks at cheaper prices. This is for God's sake something the Greens would have to agree to. This is a measure which is correct in every way on the environment, and that is why the Greens should actually give their consent and not reject these new laws with reasonable arguments. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Kurt Eder: Exactly!]] In addition, I would like to say that the tariffs can also be fixed after different hours of the day. In other words, we achieve a better distribution of traffic and less congestion. – An additional reason for greens to agree to this proposal and this legislative innovation. Finally, Mr Themessl, to Vorarlberg. – Yes, we know that this does not solve all the problems, and we know above all one thing: that perhaps in other regions similar desires could be triggered after such daily vignettes, but we do it because first of all this solution is agreed with the Vorarlberg state government and with the country day, because there is a broad agreement in Vorarlberg for this solution and for the time being this only applies for some time. One will evaluate whether this pricing actually brings about something that can relieve Bregenz. If this is not the case, it will be amended accordingly. So it is incomprehensible why you do not agree with this regulation, which is intended to give discharge to the people of Vorarlberg as a whole.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21329	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek with 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21351	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! To pre-empt it immediately: My group will not agree to this government proposal, which includes the Federal Roads Act and the Asfinag Act, especially because of the fact that there are various regional projects that relate to the same thing as the Vorarlberg project, as my previous speaker has already said. In this context, I would also like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would like to say about the change mark: There are between 200 000 and 250 000 vehicle owners with alternating marks, and they have to solve a vignette for each vehicle, although they do not have to pay the motor insurance tax and the premium twice. It would be appropriate to issue a vignette for these change marks, but there are quite different ways. It is true that the increase in the price of vignettes by €1.20 – the rate of inflation now included in the price of vignettes – is practically 1st. ==References== ==References====External links== December you can buy the vignette – but the trailers get much less commission for it than before. These get only 1,70 € and not 2 € and 7 cents, so by 18 percent less. Those who operate trafides are mostly disabled people, and exactly the ones who meet, they have to wear it. I do not understand at all that there is a reduction in the number of cases when you otherwise raise the whole; especially if I keep this paper “Way to the Future – Investment Programme for Transport Infrastructure” in the hands of SPÖ last year, which says that the small and the large pendulum fee is to be collected to finally simplify this area and to relieve the commuters and professional groups working in this field. For the SPÖ, there is no further increase in taxes and taxes for private drivers. – What are you doing now? You're raising it again. You have broken your election promise again!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21421	The amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, Mr Haubner, Mr President, has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21510	The next item is Mr Marizzi's speech with two minutes' speaking time, as I see it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21532	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Dolinschek, you know very well that the Minister of State in the Committee has answered all your questions and that you are only partially right. He has said that your requests are not shubbled as they have been in the past with Transport Minister Gorbach, who was not always in committee, but we will talk about these requests. Those applications, which are good, are now being examined; whether vignette or toll is concerned. There is a change in transport policy, as it has been a quality improvement with regard to the last Minister. We believe that there is a good solution now. Mr Eder has already pointed out the criteria concerning the priorities of the legislative change: the differentiation in eligibility, the differentiation of toll tariffs and also the emission history. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, I can only imagine that low-pollutant trucks are very important and believe that this is the first step. And the second step is also very important: that we now try to achieve the cost-truth in transport, and the first step is the cross-financing of the road to the rail. Considering that only € 25 million will be collected and used to finance the Brenner Base Tunnel, you can say: This is a good law, we are proud of it and therefore we are happy to give it our consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21568	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21589	Madam President. High house! I would like to address the introduction of the corridor vignette in the Rhine valley – you will not be surprised. This is about the fact that a vignette can be solved from the border in Hörms to Hohenems for a day. The whole thing has two aspects: a democratic aspect and a transport policy. I would like to start with democracy policy – I think it is at least as important as transport policy. It is true that in 2005 the Vorarlberger Landtag decided unanimously that there would be no vignettes in Vorarlberg and that there should be an increase in the oil tax and no more vignettes. That was already in 2005. [[Abg. Head:... the country day alone may not decide!]] In 2007, Minister Faymann arrived and, once in Bregenz, announced that Corridor vignette – despite the existing decision of the Vorarlberger Landtag. [[Abg. Head: That doesn't fit together, the two things!]] Well, I think, Mr Kopf, that it would be very good if a minister first knew what the federal state concerned wanted, and not put a political measure over the heads of those concerned. [[Abg. Head: But the two things don't fit together!]] [[Abg. Eder:... talk like a blind man about the color!]] In June 2007, a request was made at the Vorarlberger Landtag, which was signed by representatives of the Greens, the ÖVP and the Freedoms, among other things, to prevent the introduction of the Corridor vignette – so they voted against the introduction of the Corridor vignette – and this request was supported by 13 of the 36 MEPs. And I'll tell you: It was the representatives of the municipalities concerned who have to suffer from the current increase in traffic. These Members therefore voted very clearly against the introduction of this corridor vignette. [[Abg. Eder: But much more for it!]] You don't seem to mind that, because of course... [[Abg. Eder: Much more have spoken out for it!]] Please, in Vorarlberg we have mainly ÖVP, who knows what to do if the government makes a request; but it is remarkable that those representatives of the ÖVP who live in the affected communities have all voted against it! Everyone! – You should do that once, as you sit in here, then we would have a failed democracy! That was really useful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sieber.]] The question of transport policy is as follows: Costs will be incurred – 1.5 to 2 million € will cost the introduction, around 3 million € of the annual waste for the ASFINAG. I don't care about it, but if, on the other hand, it's argued that there's too little money for noise protection measures, and the people are left alone with the noise, then I don't care if this money is put in such a corridor vignette or in noise protection measures. The city of Bregenz should be relieved – I expressly say! You hopefully know, perhaps if you take this decision today, that there is a traffic study that has calculated that 90 percent of the traffic in Bregenz on the routes concerned are so-called target traffic. That means that this is homemade traffic, that is not transit traffic; I would like to tell you that. And what you do with it is: They are moving the problem from the town of Bregenz to the municipalities of Götzis, Hohenems, Lustenau – which already has a huge burden and is already a rehabilitation area under the Immission Protection Act. That's exactly the same for you! This seems to be the same for you, you also move the traffic to Diepoldsau in Switzerland. They will well know how to defend themselves, I am sure, and they are right, because they are making a consistent transport policy. That means what you are doing here is a shift in traffic, but not a good transport policy! And we will certainly not take such a measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21704	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl with 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21726	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We decide today that what was negotiated so perfectly by our Federal Chancellor, also by the Minister for Transport Gorbach, namely a new road cost directive, is also implemented in Austria in such a way that, for example,... – Yes, the Gorbach has negotiated this, Mr. Colleague. [[Abg. Eder: The Gorbach?]] [[Abg. Eder: “Superb ”?]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Even in English!]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] That's been there for some time, it's not a child of this legislative period. And I should like to express my thanks once again to Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel, who has made himself very strong for this and, without his permanent, long-standing commitment, we would never have reached that far. Now we are in the happy situation to be able to actually provide 20 percent of the toll revenues via the burner dedicated to the Brenner base tunnel. This will be hugely € 21 million per year. At the same time, however, I have a criticism point: They know – or perhaps they don't know – that the country of Tyrol has participated in the Brenner Base Tunnel society and is taking a lot of money into its hands and paying. And I have to say with some stranger, Mrs State Secretary, that this cross-financing is exclusively due to the federal share. And I admit that this is not true to my full approval. A country which is not actually responsible for the construction of expensive infrastructure, but because of the importance for the population, is still ready to get very deep into the bag, should actually participate in what is taken in money due to the heavy burden on its own population in Tyrol. That is why I am trying to rework the law in the future and also count these tolls on the country's share – in the right proportion – and not only on the federal share. The Tyroleans, who are truly suffering from these traffic loads, would have deserved it that not even their own money to the full – and that of the federal government – will be taken back, especially in view of the fact that it is always remarkable that the only special toads we have in Austria can be found exclusively in the western parts of Austria and, in particular, from and to Vienna, there is nowhere to be found a special toad route across Austria. [[Abg. Ollinger: Should we decide now or not?]] With permission: That too has been strange to us for years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21840	The next speaker is Mr Vilimsky. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21861	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A very short comment of joy: Today, there has been a judgment, i.e. 15 months of imprisonment for the controversial and suspended Vienna state police commander Horngacher, who has always played a highly perfidious role against the FPÖ. The judicial system works, we are happy about it! – This is only as an input note. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as the matter itself is concerned, let me start with a mega scandal of transport policy and the Transport Committee, which concerns Mrs Haidlmayr and Mr Marizzi on the verge of: [[Abg. Ollinger: Gorbach!]] Mrs Haidlmayr has, as I have heard in the last Committee on Transport, for 13 years had a request, so to speak, in the Chamber of Commons of this House, with the urgent request to you, the government groups, to judge it and to find out whether you are willing to say yes or no to this request. And, last time, you were not prepared to give at least the honour of a request and of Mrs Haidlmayr, after 13 years, to say: Yeah, that's where we're for it, or: No,... – On you I come to speak separately! [[Abg. Eder: What did the FPÖ say about this?]] Come on. You're going out to the speaker's desk! – All opposition applications have been rejected on a flat-rate basis! [[Abg. Eder: You've been in government for seven years! What did you say?]] And to your glorious presidency: Let’s talk about that at the end of the summer period – let’s see which one of us is the “smorse brothers”! [[Abg. Eder: Dirty...!]] – You came to me on the basis of a proposal – we all listen so that we can judge you in the right picture too! ;quieting [[Interoperability call at the SPÖ]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder]] You're coming to the speaker's desk afterwards! – where I meant: It would not be possible for Mr Verkehrsminister to fall out of the crown if he once invited the speakers of the individual political groups to work out the circumstances, perhaps to find a cut, and we could talk to the Minister in the extra-parliamentary area. – They came to me and said: Actually, that's a good idea. In September, we'll do that! - Now we have at the end of October. We didn't do it. – This is the prepotence of a government that is not well. Allow me to maintain this criticism. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is the quality of parliamentarianism that Mr Cap has conjured. I agree with the observation: It's never been as bad as now! You do not get any government documents together, you torture the committees with boring reports, and all the requests you wanted to make for the opposition you wanted to talk to, to which it has said: Yes, let's talk about it, yes, we hear the opposition too! With the iron calculation, the opposition requests are turned away! Wrist whether they are good or less good: You're going over it! It's not like you're bringing anything together. That's the custom of your policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The red lamb here on the speaker's desk already shines, ladies and gentlemen, and I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] And I offer you a bet – and I will win it: I guarantee you that you will also postpone this request! – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e21996	The request of Mr Vilimsky and colleagues is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22061	The next item is Mrs Binder-Maier's speech with a speaking time of 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22082	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vilimsky, in your excitement you were not very credible. I can assure you that Mrs Haidlmayr's request just now... – Seven years you too had time to deal with it! [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Vilimsky has been sitting since 1. In here October!]] But ladies and gentlemen of your group! . But I can assure you, ladies and gentlemen, that Mrs Haidlmayr's request will be dealt with very safely and that her subject will also be taken very seriously and that we also have the assurance of Minister Faymann in this regard. [[Abg. We've all been sitting since 1. October there! A year!]] Back to the item on the agenda. – I think the key points of the government template have been explained: Implementation of the revised Road Costs Directive, regulation of the eligibility criteria, directives and criteria for new toll rates and the first adaptation of toll tariffs to be differentiated by 2010 according to EURO emission classes. I also think that the employers' obligation to provide information on the proper use of equipment to their employees, the regulation of annual valorization, the reduction of the criminal framework in tolls, because this is a very fleetingly small proportion. I think that the change in content and the effects of the content mean a first step that toll rates can be set by pollutant classes by 2010, and the possibility of cross-financing, namely that the ASFINAG resources can be used to finance the Brenner Base Tunnel. – In this way, this is a first step towards better environmental compatibility in road transport.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22132	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. I think the request was still to be submitted. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22153	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! I have not read the following request on the grounds of great hurry:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22199	Thank you. The application is sufficiently supported, properly submitted and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22266	Mrs Kranzl, Secretary of State, spoke next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22287	Madam President. High house! I would like to focus briefly on a number of contributions to the debate on Corridor vignette in Vorarlberg. I am now somewhat surprised personally because not only Minister Faymann has stayed in Vorarlberg for almost a week, I have been intensively inquiring and talking there, but also my littleness, and we have actually been told there that a vignette with shorter duration – whether day vignette, whether vignette for individual trips – would be an essential must or also a desire of the Vorarlberg population. – That's why this corridor vignette was created. However, I would also like to say that it has a time limit: on the one hand, until the gate tunnel is completed. On the other hand, it is also a requirement. In fact, it should be noted that traffic in the municipalities is increasing, and this vignette will of course be taken back. On ASFINAG, distribution of revenue: Mrs Hakl, it is legitimate, of course, for the federal states to wish to achieve revenue here. However, I should like to draw attention to the following: On the one hand, it is the higher-ranking road network, on the other hand, ASFINAG competence is clearly federal competence. And that is why, I believe, it is also legitimate for these revenues to flow to the Federation. With regard to penalties: Of course, it may be possible to argue, if the penalty framework is now reduced from €400 to €300, that this may at times encourage more tolls to occur again. However, I must say that one can also see it reversed, because it has been shown that the drivers are very, very conscientious about this regulation, that there are only a very few tollers, and I see this as actually a best practice example, as well as positive awareness can be quite recognized by reducing the criminal framework here. With regard to the suggestion of an Alpine transit exchange, Mrs Moser, I may be able to provide the information that, of course, the Government Convention also includes the construction of an Alpine transit exchange. This is an important subject. However, you also know that within the Zurich process, a study is commissioned that deals with different contents on the subject of traffic management system in this very sensitive region. This is about different ways of doing this, this study is deliberately held to be a result. The European Commission is actively involved in the European tendering process and also takes on appropriate financial participation. I think it is very legitimate to wait for these results, because the results will be presented first to the ministers of transport in the respective Alpine states in autumn 2008 and then the corresponding conclusions will be drawn. – So this is absolutely not ad acta, but the results of this study must and should be expected.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22333	Thank you, Mrs. State Secretary. – Mr Gahr has been mentioned as the next speaker. He made a speech time of 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22354	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! From the Tyrolean point of view, both the Federal Roads Act and the ASFINAG Act are particularly welcomed. I think we don't need a direction dispute today, who initiated what. It is crucial that we implement the EU Road Costs Directive. Tirol, of course, suffers from the issue of heavy traffic. Over 2 million trucks travel through our country, and in about 600,000 choose detours. I think it is important that we ensure fair distribution of traffic loads in the future, that we avoid detour traffic and that we strive for cost-truth. I think it is important – Mr Kukacka has already said this – that we create an incentive for the use of toll differentiation to force low-pollutant trucks to be forced to reduce environmental pollution. I think it is also important that we take action and that is a political one. The ASFINAG Act allows up to 25 percent toll. I think it is important that we can provide €21 million for the expansion of the Brenner axis, the Brenner Base Tunnel. The ÖBB – the railway and, of course, the ÖBB because they are involved in the Brenner Base Tunnel, Unterinntal-Trasse project – are from our point of view the alternative to the road we have to pursue. And I think we political leaders are forced to take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22390	Mr Mayer is also speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22412	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It's actually like this: Unfortunately, my colleague Themessl left us right after his somewhat comical remarks – I have to say that. I was also surprised when Mr Mandak argued as a Vorarlberger. It is clear and true that Vorarlberg has had a major traffic problem for decades. And it is none other than – I have to say so in the case – the ÖVP, which has been the absolute majority for years, and the FPÖ, who sits with it in the state government. The main problem, of course, exists in the Lake Constance region, in the surroundings of the town of Bregenz, which is also doubtful. And who's in the city government there? - A green councillor. [[Abg. Mandak: This is a unanimous decision of the country!]] The only solution to say: We increase the mineral oil tax, and the problems of Vorarlberg are solved!, is simply too little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now finally comes after this unscrupulous Gorbach era – also for Vorarlberg! – a minister who is competent, young, who is committed to the problems, who is looking for solutions that also convinced the Vorarlberger ÖVP, which at the outset is quite skeptical of this initiative, that it is worth an attempt, and that he has also promised it should not work that way, should actually receive additional traffic – the Secretary of State has already said – adjacent regions, which is also going to blow off. [[Abg. Mandak: Yes, right!]] [[Abg. Sburny: What do you think traffic is going on?]] But now that one has at last a very concrete opportunity, now that one has a minister who is committed to solving a local problem for us in Vorarlberg, to leave it in the rain, where there are clear decisions of the country day, where there are clear wishes of the head of state, where there are clear wishes of the Bregenz population to not vote in the National Council as a Vorarlberger for this solution, that is almost negligent, Mrs Colleague! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] Tell the colleague Themessl who is not here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] - There he is! Sorry! It must not be that if we are fighting today for a central concern of the State of Vorarlberg and if this measure could reduce traffic, Vorarlberg's Members would not vote in favour. I ask you to: Voices You admit this solution, you also give the Lake Constance region a chance to finally get rid of traffic! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22508	The next speaker is Mr Sieber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22530	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In fact, the city of Bregenz is in a special situation. It is beautifully situated, surrounded by mountains and lakes, but, of course, traffic policy in a difficult location. Since there is the road toll on the motorway, many German drivers have been forced or forced to avoid this toll, to pass through Bregenz and to avoid the short distance – only 16 kilometres – to Switzerland. Now, this proposal seeks to make an offer to the German drivers to stay on the motorway by offering them on this corridor to get 2 € in a direction on the motorway to Switzerland. [[Abg. Mandak: Publishing traffic!]] Granted, of course, there will be a certain shift in traffic. Estimated Mrs Mandak, Bregenz is currently driving 25 000 vehicles every day! [[Abg. Mandak: How much is internal?]] If You would have read the Köll study a little more precisely, then you knew that Köll is talking about the fact that about 25 percent of this traffic volume can be relocated. 25 percent of 25 000 vehicles are theoretically transferable. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Themessl.]] Mr Themessl, but of course we know that this shift would be possible if the motorway were to be completely shared. That won't be the case. So we are talking about about 10 percent of these 5,000 vehicles that are going to change back to the motorway. Now in all clarity: Mr Themessl, 500 vehicles – or 1,000 – that will not move to a border crossing in the future, but will be divided into three: If that's not reasonable, I don't know. I believe that all Vorarlbergers here in the House should take up this proposal by Minister Faymann and also implement it to discharge Bregenz, for the Vorarlberg region. Just one more, Mrs. State Secretary: You said the minister was in the country for a week and didn't hear any arguments against the vignette. I think the Minister should perhaps go a little beyond Bregenz and speak to other people than the chairman Ritsch. There are, of course, votes against, but I believe we should agree with the Bregenzers in the interests of all Vorarlbergers and, above all, for solidarity reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22589	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. You've done 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22611	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Today we want to update the Federal Roads Act 2002. This is very good, and we are all glad that there is this law, because it has significantly forced construction and has significantly increased the financing of motorway and federal road construction. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Bundesstraße!]] We need a great deal of follow-up in the Eastern region. Regrettably, Mr Faymann has postponed some of the items in the preparation of the framework plan for the ASFINAG or the construction programme for the Bundesbahn. That was a serious shock for the region. In the meantime, a lot of things have happened. Among other things, we discussed today in the early days that the financial compensation has been decided again for six years. And Lower Austria is different; this gives the Lower Austrian state government, our esteemed Mr. Erwin Pröll the opportunity to make promises. [[Abg. Kurt Eder: That's not the topic! We're talking about something else here!]] So he offered that he would take over the cost of an earlier expansion. Since we have on the one hand an up-to-date law, on the other hand a good commitment from the head of state, I am only looking for the Minister of State to take the concerns of the population in the east of Vienna as seriously as the concerns of the people of Vorarlberg. We all urgently need infrastructure development, and the Wiener is happy to go out to us too. It would be good for everyone. You know, in Lower Austria, it's decided quickly. With us it is called “clearness by majority, ” and Erwin Pröll brings things on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22683	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22704	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The Dispute of Vorarlberg's colleagues was quite interesting and informative. I have the feeling that this is going to concern us a few more times in this house. However, we will certainly now decide that way. In the same way, we will decide to ecologize the toll by 2010 by favouring the low-pollutant trucks and the annual valorization of the toll. That, of course, is what we agree with. I should just like to mention one point that was also discussed in the Committee: I am not of the opinion of Mr Vilimsky that the reports would be fad and uninteresting, but they are very informative and very interesting. One point that we have also discussed was the number of accidents in road crossings, which has increased dramatically in recent months. There's a need for action. There is also a Commission that has been set up, but it has not yet been able to do so. However, the Minister has promised that there will be talks with the countries, and he has also promised that there will be at least 50 unlimited railway crossings in the future. Personally, I believe that, as far as possible, all railway crossings should be secured in such a way, and I believe that we continue to need massive action in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22738	I call Mr Ferdinand Maier. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22764	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It has been said a lot, a lot of the right thing. But in connection with the ASFINAG, I already wanted to point out: This is about a company that is service-oriented and customer-friendly and has also written advice on the flags. And you should actually learn from mistakes. This is just a warning that I am giving to the management of the ASFINAG – it is just being re-searched – because of errors made in the city hall in Vienna. If you remember: A few weeks ago, the parking fee in Vienna was increased by 50 percent – an insanity! – and at the same time you have offered a service that has led to headlines: [[Call the ÖVP: How much?]] Attack at the exchange points, the theater around the short parking tickets, waiting time, delivery passport, customer-indulgent solution, parking-light plantation, queues for parking tickets, and more. All of this was indebted to the competent city councillor Schicker and the Vienna City Hall. [[Call the ÖVP: How much percent?]] I think you should say to the management of the ASFINAG: From this you should learn that you are still so customer-friendly. Perhaps Mr. Stadtrat Schicker can then take a bit of an interest in the ASFINAG, so that this will also be a little better in Vienna. Kurt Ederwill help me; we will try to convince him.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22825	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on the draft law in 239 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Hizu, have tabled an additional request. First of all, I would like to vote on the supplementary proposal mentioned and then on the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. Mr Dolinschek, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make a supplementary request to introduce a paragraph 7a in Article I. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 239 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the draft law. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who support the draft law to be a sign of approval. – In turn, this is the majority, and with that the draft law is also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Themessl, fellow Members, on measures to increase competition in order to reduce the price of petrol. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who support it to be a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Themessl, colleagues and others on the purpose of the tax on mineral oils. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – In turn, that is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Vilimsky, colleagues, on the introduction of a 'half-yearly passenger car vignette' for Austria's motorways. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues, on the termination of the anti-tamps-owners by the Vignette obligation. That, in turn, is the minority and thus rejected. [[21:04:58]] 14. Point Report by the Committee on Transport on Amendment No 275/A by Mr Kurt Eder, Mag. Helmut Kukacka, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the German law on cable cars (Seilbahngesetz 2003 – SeilbG 2003) (240 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22962	We get to the 14th. Agenda item There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mrs. Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e22990	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, in the past – I just call it Kaprun, I only refer to Sölden – cable car accidents have often brought us to the negative headlines in the international press. Now you, the two government parties, have put in an initiative proposal – the ÖVP is very motivated by the economy, the SPÖ in that case is quite open to these concerns. This proposal for an initiative corresponds to the desired catalogue of the Chamber of Commerce. It is a matter of simplifying authorisation procedures that the transfer of used lifts is no longer subject to authorisation, that in the safety field as a whole one does not put the latte higher, but leaves it up to maximum, even partially worse. And the whole thing goes without consideration! Normally, we have to get in touch with such delicate matter as the cable car law, where for months, processes have taken place in which we can get a thorough review of the causes, backgrounds, facts and so on, and get expert opinions, and then proceed to legislation. What you're doing is ruckzuck in the sense of the economy. This is not the case with us, and that is why we strongly reject this initiative proposal – even in view of the fact that the report of the Labour Inspectorate in the Transport Committee has shown that there are relatively many safety concerns for personnel compared to other areas of the cable car sector, not only for the people who are on the way there. Especially from tourism viewpoints, we really need to have a high-quality cable car law and not an initiative proposal, so to speak, as a duplicate or copy of a proposal from the Chamber of Commerce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23029	Mr Kurt Eder is speaking as the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23053	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Unfortunately, I cannot share your opinion on this either, Mrs Moser. I think we have to start from other conditions. One thing is that we need to see the tourism industry as a whole, as one of the most important economic sectors in Austria. This is in competition; and in this competition, we must also try to create appropriate conditions for our companies in the mountain tourism industry to work economically. If you are working with the security argument, I must say, Mrs Moser: You need to know that every year about 620 million people are transported by cable cars. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Moser.]] And we haven't had any significant accidents in recent years. And those that you meant were accidents that did not happen directly in cable cars, but that happened partly to helicopters, which is partly - as the report of the labour inspectorate in the committee has shown - in road accidents of staff, but not directly in the tourism sector with the cable cars. I therefore believe that we have a number of improvements in that, even in the case of existing installations, we now have to take appropriate security measures, if they have not yet been done, so that we have a very, very high level of safety, especially in the safety field. And the first thing I've seen as part of my consideration of changing the cable car law to that point is that, for example, approval procedures become shorter. That is positive, Mrs Moser! You're criticizing that. Let us be glad when approval procedures for plant plants become shorter, more efficient, safer! And that's why – I think – you can agree calmly. On behalf of Mr Vilimsky, who is now, I believe, no longer here, I would just like to say that, of course, we are going to invite the transport speakers of the political groups to the November part-session of the road transport system, which will take place in a comprehensive form, to hold talks with the Minister in order to carry out these novels as far as possible on a broad basis. – Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23093	The next speaker is Mr Kukacka. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23116	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Eder has already pointed out that the Austrian cable car industry is of great economic importance. There are 3 000 plants, 14 500 employees, 1.3 billion euros will be implemented. It is more than understandable that economic and legal conditions are also set here, so that this sector can also be optimally developed accordingly. It is not right, Mrs Moser, if you say that any security restrictions would have been associated, for example, with the simplification of the authorisation procedure. This law, this novel, Mrs Colleague, is in line with the most modern safety directives in Europe. It remains the same as in the old law when carrying out appropriate regular security analyses. There are permanent safety reports by independent experts, and the necessary fire protection measures should be provided for in these areas. So there is no reason at all to make this novelle bad just because it is not subject to a comprehensive legal review. This was not necessary because both BMVIT and all the countries were involved in the preparation of this innovation within the framework of this initiative proposal. The competent cable car department of the Ministry has worked on it, all the federal states and their approval authorities have been involved, and none of these bodies have objected to our draft. So I think it was right, it was necessary and good as it was done, and it is in no way justified to express appropriate safety concerns publicly, but on the contrary: Optimal legal and economic conditions for the positive development of the cable car industry have been created here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23152	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23174	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We of the opposition are in principle different from the government groups. If something reasonable comes from the government groups, of course we agree. And I have to say, for example, that something reasonable happened to Mr Hörl. We also support it fully. The amendment of the cable car law is an absolutely necessary measure for tourism. And towards the Green Group: Mrs. Dr. Moser, do you want people to emigrate to the valleys? What are they supposed to live on, please? There is no tourism without the functioning cable car industry. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] It is unfortunately God's way that only one third of the mining yards are truly profitable, another third comes in, salopp formulated, with plus/minus through, and another third unfortunately God writes only deficits. But we also need to help the ski lift companies, which are more difficult to do, by being able to take off an old plant and rebuild it and not to carry out an EIA procedure. Then: If they have to go through such a procedure, there will never be an installation. We know that very well. As a Tyrolean representative, I can also point out that the suffering-tested Pitztalers have been trying, for six years now, to finally achieve a valley exit in the Pitztal for safety reasons, but there are the greens who run against it and say: No, it can't be built a valley exit! It must not be built an emergency way either, because the environmental lawyer has objected against this emergency road again. Now the poor Pitztalers have an emergency path, but it must not be driven. On the other hand, the BMVIT comes and says: You pitztalers have set up new facilities last year, and you must guarantee that the tourists will also be brought down to the valley in an accident. – The cat really bites in the tail: Once you're for safety, once you're against security. I am glad that we have this cable car law, because we support the tourism industry and also want to help those mountain railways and regions that don't get so easy financially. That is why this is a happening, and I would like to thank you for this initiative, which, of course, fully receives our support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23216	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23238	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Since November 2003, the cable car law has not been regulated in the Railway Act, but in its own law. And if just four years move into the country, it is necessary to make certain adjustments, adjustments that are both in accordance with the European Directive and with the implementation and improve the resolution. We will, in any case, agree to this government proposal. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23262	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23283	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The 2003 cable car law implemented, among other things, an EU directive on cable cars for passenger transport relating to technical requirements and safety in Austria. This 2003 amendment creates legal conditions for simplifying and implementing the implementation and practical implementation of provisions. I expressly note here that the proposed changes are, among other things, necessary mainly in the interests of security. I would like to focus briefly on the importance of cable cars for the Austrian tourism industry. 263 cable car companies with a total of more than 3 000 facilities throughout Austria are an important economic factor for the entire tourism industry, especially for winter sports. And the cable car companies are factors for securing many jobs. For the rural regions in particular, more than 14,000 jobs, including 6 000 jobs per year, are of enormous importance. I should also like to mention the need for high-quality workers in this context. This need has become necessary due to the far-reaching technical and quality assurance standards. And so it is interesting that a new teaching profession is facing the realization, namely that of the cable car specialist or the cable car specialist. I think that this takes into account the high requirements in cable car operators, but also the demands of passengers who rightly expect an excellent service. Overall, I see this innovation as a good condition for the cable cars as an important part of the leisure and tourism sectors to continue to work high-quality in line with technical progress and economic development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23323	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23344	Mrs. State Secretary! Madam President. High house! As an active cable car, I would like to thank the two transport speakers, Mr Eder and Mr Kukacka, for the revision of this cable car law. This is correct and necessary, because the current cable car law has not proved itself at all in practice. It was far too complicated and has not regulated some things, such as the installation of used facilities, but also the towing lifts, which were incorporated into the cable car law by commercial law. Here there is an administrative simplification, there are some reliefs, and here there is safety, safety and security above all. Mrs Moser, if you are talking about cable car accidents, please note that this was a helicopter accident in Sölden and that we have almost no accidents in 600 million vehicles. [[Abg. Lentic: Thank God!]] Thank God, every accident is too much. But we have almost no accidents. Mrs. Moser, as you are a green person, is excited about the fact that the countries were not involved: I'm telling you, that's not true. It has always been the highest goal of tourism to give safety a very high priority. And if you try the transport labour inspectors, I can tell you that these accidents are due to negligence from our employees who, as in other areas, do not use protective glasses, helmets, belts, things that are just prescribed, to the appropriate extent. Therefore, these accidents. – So it's not right what you say. Something else to protect nature, since it is always said that cable cars are the biggest “environmental eaters ” at all. In Tyrol, please, we have 25 per cent of the land area at 13 per cent of land area in protected areas. In my district, the most tourism-intensive district of this country, with 7.5 million stays, it is 40 percent of the area, and the cable cars have just one to two percent. Please note that we should also have a certain proportionality, and don't hack around on tourism all the time! I would like to thank the honourable Members, including our Mrs Mag. Lachner, also with the authority, which has helped us a lot here. In this good cooperation we have done something decent here, and I thank you for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23384	Next item is the report by Mr Heinzl. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23405	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! The need for this novel is that the cable car law 2003 is very difficult to implement in some provisions. There are a number of urgent needs for action. This amendment takes account of this, as I believe, situation. In particular, there are adjustments and procedural reliefs in relation to the competent authorities and in relation to the procedure. In addition, the novelle corrects some misunderstandings of the cable car law. I would like to say here that the authorities and experts involved in enforcement are required. None of the proposed legal changes must be interpreted as a evasion of the provisions in force today on the protection of the safety of passengers and also of the operating staff. This concerns in particular the possibility to carry out, to a greater extent than previously, conversions to the cable cars without prior administrative authorisation procedures. This right of the operator shall be understood by the competent authority as an obligation to carry out the administrative monitoring of compliance with the relevant safety technical standards and the state of the art. Ladies and gentlemen! As before, compliance with all necessary safety standards must be required by all operators – that is quite clear. This also applies to the formulation of a regulation on the cable car law with more detailed provisions on the procedural reliefs provided for in the amendment. In this respect, compliance with the necessary safety standards of the cable cars shall be observed. One thing is particularly important to me to say: Such a thing as economically acceptable safety standards are not acceptable. A cable car, which is not safe to operate, must not be built or rebuilt. The tragedy of Kaprun is still in sad memory for all of us – and it simply cannot repeat itself!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23438	The next speaker is Mr Kainz. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23460	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Much has already been said about this undoubtedly important matter. Austria is – and we can be proud of it – a tourist country, and especially winter tourism with all its lifts actually has a very, very positive development, and almost a success story behind it. In 1957 there were 358 lifts – in this year, 2007, it is proud 3 003, 14 500 employees and more than 630 million persons transported, especially in winter with 602 million. Lower Austria, and I am proud of that, also has some important ski areas. I would like to call the ski resort of St. Corona on the change for many, where I am I am also happy and proud that I am a member of the local ski club. [[Congratulations and bravado at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] The first cable rink was also built in Lower Austria in 1926. With the revision of the cable car law of 2003, we will continue to ensure safety, but will make some adjustments from practice. I would like to give a second example because the mountain rescue of Wienerwald-Süd in Mödling also operates a tow lift, namely on the Norwegian meadow. And I hope that this evaluation of the cable car law, also through the Minister's regulation, will allow for practical and practical design so that this lift can go back into operation. I would also like to thank the volunteers who operate this lift. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, also because the Secretary of State is sitting here on the Government Bank: I think politicians should give gas, that's not a question, but I mean, in the form of special work – and not with the service car on the west highway. I think that transport policy stands for road users' safety, but not for traffic users and drivers' safety. I also expect to follow this principle in the forthcoming discussion on the evaluation or modification of the 0.5 and 0.8 promills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23511	The next item is the speech by Mr Rädler. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23532	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! As a Lower Austrian, I am happy to be allowed to speak to the cable car law. Of the 3 000 cable cars, 124 are located in Lower Austria. Mrs. State Secretary is a witness. There are also some innovative projects. A political group in the municipality of my predecessor, in Pfaffstätten, in the election campaign, has been involved in the construction of a ski jump in the Vienna Basin. Then the cable car is still missing. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] But there is also a quite cable car proposal for Lower Austria by a member of this House, who at the last election proposed to build a mountain with the material we dig out of the Semmering Base Tunnel when it comes to the Vienna Basin, on the Steinfeld. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who was that?]] – Mr Peter Wittmann! This is a sign that we have always been thinkers in Lower Austria. I hope these projects will also be implemented. [[Cheerfulness with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I can give my consent to this law, this evaluation, and I am sure that the safety in the cable car sector will not suffer any damage, as the Greens have mentioned here. I look forward to the coming winter – this law is certainly beneficial for tourism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23579	The next speaker is Mrs Lamassoure. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23600	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to draw your attention to an aspect of the The proposed change in the cable car law, which is not immediately linked to it, is very important to me as a physiotherapist, namely the safeguarding of areas of movement for children by safeguarding small and small-scale areas. We have a lot of them in Upper Austria. For example, we have 25 ski areas with a lift, 13 ski areas with two lifts. They are very, very much used by families and kindergartens, so that the children acquire initial knowledge of skiing. Thus, many children especially in the urban area have the opportunity to acquire special motor skills. As we all know, our children are growing up more and more sitting. Unfortunately, in very young years, this has led to a deficit in the motor sector, in the field of perception, but also in cognitive skills. This means that everything that helps children to live out their urge to move should be supported by us. Therefore, a threat to these many sites by excessive bureaucracy or by practical regulations does not only harm operators and employees, but must be regarded as negative in the light of a further restriction on the movement of children. In addition, in many of these ski areas there is also a small gastronomic offer, which of course brings jobs to women very often, and these jobs would also be at risk. [[Ah-Rufe at the FPÖ]] [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Of course, security has a very high priority. This means, of course, that all changes in technical nature must comply with the legal requirements from the point of view of security for customers, but also for staff. However, it has been shown in the last four years that there is a need for change towards adaptation. That is why I am very pleased if, through the proposed change of law, a piece of quality of life is maintained for our children and especially for the families.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23655	Mrs Kranzl, the Secretary of State, has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23676	Madam President. High house! In particular, because Kaprun's disaster was addressed, it's just a need to stress this: You can be assured that neither the Federal Ministry of Transport, Innovation and Technology nor Transport Minister Faymann or my ability will submit to you a law that will worsen the safety rules for cable cars. – As I have said, it is very important to stress this. The fact is that there are a number of legislative changes in terms of administrative simplification, and I believe that this is consistently a very reasonable template, which, of course, benefits the cable car companies, on the other hand, but also the high demands of Austrian legislation at all. It is simply important for me to stress that there are very strict authorisation procedures, which, I believe, are the most important, but on the other hand, this law also allows existing plants, which are functional and operational, to be remodelled. I think that's a very positive effect of this law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23711	Further word message: Mrs Moser. 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23733	Madam President, Mrs. State Secretary! Since many of the participants in this discussion have obviously not read the text of the law on which they are voting now and claim that it is a purely administrative simplification – as you have formulated, for example, Mrs State Secretary – I cannot ignore you specifically to quote § 18. This is a very specific question of extending the freedom of authorisation. This is not about administrative simplification, but about freedom of authorisation for reconstruction and extension projects. The same applies to § 31. [[Abg. Hörl: This is the business toilet! That's what it's about.]] Then it says – I quote –: The cable cars existing before 2004 are to be re-evaluated in the case of concession extensions according to the applicable law. That's a step back. We're going back to an old legal structure, and you're saying, Oh, my God! For tourism, everything is sacred to us! I'm for quick procedures, I'm for safety, and I'm for clear procedures. But what we do not want is liberalisation in the cable car industry. But the latter you decide, also at the expense of the people who are traveling there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23767	Mrs Kranzl, Secretary of State, spoke again. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23789	Mr Moser, I would like to thank you for saying that you are also supporting rapid and simple procedures. It is just important to me, however, that there are exceptions to the administrative approval in cases where small conversions are involved. Cases have been raised: Remodelling of outlying rooms or sanitary facilities. In my opinion, it is too much administrative effort to initiate a procedure which requires a great deal of effort in which there are objections and so on. It's nothing else. You know that there is a taxative catalogue that is also connected. In any case, however, it is really about simple measures that can be managed and supervised by a person. This is important to me to clarify.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23816	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 240 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[21:34:14]] 15. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-7 d.b.) of the Court of Auditors in accordance with Art. 1 § 8 Relevant limitation law for the years 2004 and 2005 (234 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23870	We're going to the 15th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Lapp with 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23898	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! We now come to a completely different subject: From the lifts and cable cars we come back to the ground of reality, to what people earn by work. The Court of Auditors' income report again provides a very compact presentation, in particular, of the differences between men and women's incomes in our country. – Again, the initiatives of the SPÖ women under the motto “It is enough because it is not enough” are at the heart of time, and the Social Democratic Party in government responsibility will, together with the ÖVP, take a lot of measures to achieve an approximation between men and women’s incomes. The relationship between men and women's income is also shown by the federal states, where Vienna is a leading rider: In Vienna there are the slightest differences between male and female incomes. Vienna is simply a pioneer in the compatibility of work and family. There is a successful network of childcare here, and there is also support for finding the way back into the labour market. The biggest differences are due to different seasonal activities and part-time employment in Vorarlberg. The pensioners in Vienna also have on average the highest incomes. New to the Court's representations are the breakdown by state and by country comparison. This has once again created a good basis for further political work, and I am very grateful to the staff of the Court of Auditors!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23931	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23952	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have dealt very intensively with this income report. In service- However, I would just like to take out one detail of the hour before, like my predecessor, the income situation of women. First, the number of women employed increased by 12 percent from 1998 to 2005. That's positive once. Women's income has also increased by an average of 1.7 percent per year. However, the male population increased significantly by 1.9 percent. From this I can draw the following conclusions: First: The childcare allowance did not prevent women from working. Secondly, this also means that income shears are again increasing at the expense of women. The women just don't get to the men's salaries. In comparison to the federal states, it can be seen that the Burgenländer women deserve the least to my suffering. For the men, on the other hand, the Burgenländer do not deserve the least, but the Steirers, for the simple reason, because many Burgenländer are commuting to Vienna and thus earning more. Women cannot do this to this extent because they are responsible for the families. That is why I can only appeal to you to compensate for these disadvantages for women in any form. In the public service this works perfectly, because there the officials get – says: Teachers – the same wage for the same or equivalent work, for the simple reason that the Christian trade unionists negotiate here. I can only congratulate my colleagues from the Christian union on this!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e23998	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann with 4 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24019	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Moser! What has been presented to us here by the Court of Auditors and Statistics Austria can be described as part of a standard distribution policy. Then why I'm talking about a part of it, I'll come back again. It is the best we have in Austria to link all data to individual lives. Thank you once again for this report! I am very pleased when the report is read, but perhaps you should look a little deeper into it. I will now bring a few findings a little more differentiated and then ask myself why the government parties have failed in recent years to do something against these findings. Found number one: Since 1998, the average income of self-employed workers has not increased by inflation-adjusted, those of the workers – small i – and the low incomes have even fallen. Now, of course, the question is why the governments, consisting of SPÖ – which is also included in the SPÖ’s government period – but also in ÖVP, FPÖ and BZÖ, have not done anything against these findings, but also done nothing at all. The second point has already been raised, namely the exclusion of the incomes of men and women. It turns out that women in all employment groups earn less than men. [[Abg. Lens: Not the officials!]] In 2005, the average income of women was 60 percent of the male's income. Adjusting this by the part-time effect is 78 percent, but this is still significantly lower. The differences in the private sector are much greater. How does it look in the private sector? – There, workers reach 45 percent of men’s income, and part-time adjusted to 68 percent. Female employees earn 50 percent of male income, part-time adjusted it is 65 percent. The picture is clearly better with the officials, which has already been suggested. 91 percent of men's incomes earn the officials, part-time adjusted to 97 percent. After all, there we are already relatively close to what we should actually strive for. For women contract staff, it looks much worse again, as it is only 90 percent partially adjusted. Found number three: The income scarcity between high and low incomes in Austria is constantly dispersing, i.e., there are real income losses in the lower income groups in particular, despite a tax reform in 2004/2005. I have also carried out the net account, and this net account shows that in principle nothing changes in these results. If you look a little closer at this, you can see: The bottom 10 percent really lose 16 percent, the lower 25 percent still lose 11 percent, and the very top ones are slightly profited somewhere. Finding number four, the comparison between self-employed and self-employed: In the case of the self-employed, it is apparent that the average income has grown significantly more than that of the self-employed. Of course, one could go a little further, but the action guide is actually clear: The government is invited to change the causes of these shocking findings. In recent years, nothing has happened in this direction. On the contrary: The situation has worsened dramatically. If I have just said that this report is a standard tool of distribution policy, I would now like to add that we need two additional reports so that we can really make distribution policy in Austria. Firstly, it would be necessary to have a report which looks at the incomes of the budget, because this is a relevant scale; in addition, it would be necessary for us to include the transfer incomes in the incomes of the budget. The second thing we would need would be a asset report. In the case of assets, it looks much worse in Austria from the point of view of distribution. There are some findings for this. But we know very little. In the richest country in the world, in the USA, asset reports are of course. You might actually think they have something to hide there. But that's not true. But obviously we have something to hide here in Austria! I believe that Austria should work quickly on this situation, so that we can open up here too to those countries which are statistically enabling what is not possible in Austria, namely a debate on distribution policy. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24059	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24080	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President, I would like to join with Mr Moser: This is really a standard work of the distribution of income and the distribution of income. Presentation of the income situation in Austria, a highly interesting report, for which we really thank. No one has mentioned today the second part of this report concerning the law on reference limits, which unfortunately could not be presented to us by God. No references have been published in this report concerning all those companies that can examine the Court of Auditors and where all earners have more than 80 percent of an average earnings of a Member of Parliament. In fact, there has been a refusal of audit, and I already feel it is a great manko that we cannot actually ask what directors and supervisory councils deserve in close-to-state companies that are audited by the Court of Auditors. Although such references are published in the media, this is unfortunately not possible to the Court of Auditors. But if I now get involved in this distribution debate, I think it's a mistake to realize that the proportions in the semi-governmental and state enterprises have changed over the last six years and top-levels such as in the OMV of € 2.8 million per year, that is, plus 367 per cent, or at the company Andritz of €1.8 million, i.e. plus 309 per cent, are paid. On the one hand, there are huge increases in top managers, even in the semi-public sector, on the other hand, real falling incomes are found in large population groups. This is the real problem, which is also reflected in this income report, and that is to be resolved. However, it was also complained in the Committee that we cannot query this personal data. That is why today I am also putting in place a motion for a resolution by the Liberal Party to signal for ourselves that we are willing to disclose and, for example, to explain on the Parliament's homepage who has any secondary references. It is too little for us to complain only in committee that personal data from top managers will not be published, but it is not even here. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why I can read this request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I am already excited to see who agrees to this initiative. Finally, because there is still a little time, I come to the measures: What is to be done to reduce, above all, these huge income shears between the poor and the rich? – In particular, mass purchasing power needs to be significantly increased on the domestic market. That is to say, there is really a wage tax reform. and above all a family division more than necessary, all the earlier, the better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24164	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hauser has been properly tabled and is therefore well supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24205	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. You want to talk for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24226	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Many things have already been said about the Remuneration Act and, above all, the Income Report. I thank you on behalf of our group for the reliable data landscape provided by the Court of Auditors. But also Statistics Austria provides us with very useful information in the Financial Committee, also in connection with the calculation of tax revenue. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I am a little surprised that the EIA did not call for the income of the household after it now also deals with the family division. I say in all cases that we would like to see it in terms of the comparability of the industries if we also break down income to hourly wages in order to have an even better, more direct comparability. I believe that hourly wage comparisons are more meaningful than comparisons of annual wages. income, as we know, for example, in tourism or in the construction industry, very many people are not in the work process a few months a year. That would be an inspiration from our side. Otherwise, we would like to thank you for providing this data.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24274	The next speaker was Mr Christ. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24296	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! One can turn the present figures of the income report and turn to what one wants, the situation of women in the working world and here, especially in income, has only slightly improved, if at all. This is not much different for the unself-employed and for the self-employed. The incomes of women and men differ widely from one sector to another. On average, women earn just 60 percent of average male income, full-time women employed just 78 percent of average male income. This is a misdevelopment that needs to be corrected, and here politics needs special action and also a clear task. No one, ladies and gentlemen, is going to work out of jux and brilliance, every woman, every man deserves a fair and just reward for the achievement. There is a need for a fair and fair way in which job offers are made for people, as well as respect for rights and obligations on both sides, by workers and employers. In addition, a small current story: With the help of the labour market service, a girl is looking for a new challenge for a very successful deposit of the graduation exam, saying: a new job. She completes a performance marathon, makes unpaid sniper days, gets a lot of part-time job offers, for example Thursday half-days, Friday all-days and every third Sunday, in total a 20-hour week, of course only the white collective contract. – This is a “fine” perspective that young people offer after vocational training, let alone if you want to create your own household, your own family or lead an independent life. However, from an employer she receives the offer of a 40-hour week, wonderful, but with the addition: only after six to eight weeks of minor employment. It cannot be a problem, it still relates to unemployment benefit, and it also has minor employment. But she's not supposed to tell anyone, because no one needs to know. I don't think I need to explain the legal details in the body. I think it's an incredible naughtiness, which this servant allows himself to: If you want to have the 40-hour job, you have to bite the sour apple, and if you don't look out full-time job, you've had bad luck and you don't have a right to unemployment benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, these are just a few reasons for the poor income situation in particular of women in special sectors. It also fails to provide high-quality childcare facilities; compulsory farm kindergartens would be a possibility. A lot of work for politics, a lot of work for the social partners, at least a lot of opportunities for all sides to make good and close to life women's policies. We are on the right track with our Federal Minister Doris Bures.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24344	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24365	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Finally, thank you very much also from my side for this really comprehensive and professional report, which clearly reflects the income situation in Austria. It is true that the report really contains a lot of figures, for example: 3,772 million people were self-employed, 1.1 percent more than the year before. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: But we do not need the report to do this!]] - I'm going to cut this very much. I was interested in where the median income lies: in the area of self-employed persons at 21,604. We see in the report that officials with a median income of 40 392 reach very high incomes. Ladies and gentlemen, as an economic representative, I have been very concerned about one thing: Mr Rossmann, you said that the income of the self-employed has increased more. - That's not the way it is. Only the freelances, first and foremost the specialist doctors, have more income than before. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Read page 24!]] In fact, according to this report, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs reach a median income of 12 342. If we know that two-thirds of all self-employed people are employed in these small and medium-sized enterprises, then I believe it is undoubtedly important that we provide structural assistance here and, above all, ensure a corresponding reduction in the additional wage costs so that the income of the small and medium-sized economy will be improved in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24413	Next speaker: Mrs Mag. Mulder. Also two minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24435	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a few words on the motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague Mr Hauser. This motion for a resolution concerns only those Members who are largely aware of it. We have talked much further in the Committee, and we have actually agreed on an examination of public companies' transfers. There has been a unity of all political groups here, and we have agreed that we will be discussing the appropriate procedure in the next committee. Now to the income report. I would just like to stress one point briefly, namely that I find it particularly alarming that the Austrians are getting less and less money at their disposal. It has already been mentioned that there has been a purchasing power loss since 1998: with medium income one of 2 percent. Despite nominal wage increases, this income increase has been devoured and nothing has been left of it. However, these income losses have not all met the same level. There is an investigation of the Chamber of Workers, which states that in 2005 top managers earned 95 percent more than in 2000. The normal consumer can only dream of this, because in addition to devalued income, he or she is also facing increasing cost of living, also significantly rising costs for their own four walls: Housing costs increased by 20 percent between 2001 and 2006, while net wages rose by only 11 percent during this period. In addition, broker commissions, deposits, Rental contract fees and so on. Therefore, legal regulations are necessary to ensure that in the future, housing remains affordable to all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24471	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler; also two minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24492	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! We women are not satisfied. Women, as we have heard today, still deserve significantly less than men, on average 60 percent. The concrete figures from the income report have already been heard by my colleague, Edeltraud Lentschund, from Mr Kristi. The following facts should be mentioned as the reasons for the income shears: The proportion of women in management positions is very low. We find women mainly in low-income sectors such as trade or the host sector and disproportionately in auxiliary and service sectors. And thirdly, it's mostly women who are working part-time. Part-time employment is unfortunately a female phenomenon: Of the 550 000 part-time workers, the proportion of women is 98 percent. I can only therefore welcome the fact that in the next income report for 2006 and 2007, the analysis of gender differences in income is still being deepened. Only the accurate knowledge of the present situation enables us to identify targeting solutions for the future. We want to work towards 100% equality. As measures I therefore propose: the increased inclusion of women in collective bargaining teams, the better information of girls in schools and training facilities on traditional men's professions and the encouragement to take such occupations as well. Finally, I should also like to thank you, Mr President Moser, and your team for this well-founded report, and I very much hope that, in future reports, we will also be able to find more and more of these areas, which I have discussed in committee, such as the situation of women, the family situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24529	Mr Hauser is next on the list of speakers. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please. I apologize: It is an actual correction; no speech contribution. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24553	No problem. Madam President, can I speak now or do I have to correct it?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24568	They have been reported to be correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24587	Mrs Mag. Becher claimed that I would have tabled a motion for a resolution stating that the public relations of the national council and the Federal Council's mandates are to be published on the Parliament's Directorate's homepage. – That’s wrong! Everyone knows these references anyway! I would like additional earnings to be published in addition to public earnings as a parliamentarian or as a Federal Council.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24622	The next item is the speech by Mr Reheis. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24646	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Hauser, your request is, in fact, “to publish the references of Members to the National Council and to the Federal Council”. – That’s why your actual correction was absolutely incorrect! Take a look at what is in it, which is quite clearly and clearly: ‘The publication of the references of Members to the National Council and the Federal Council’. Mrs Gitschthaler, you said that you cannot be satisfied. – Of course, one cannot be satisfied with such an income report because it shows very dramatically the development between the upper and lower levels of income. In 1998, under a SPÖ-led federal government, the lower 10 percent of income was €2 486; in 2005, under a conservative government, under black and blue orange, this figure fell to €2 373. In addition, there is a particularly noticeable loss of purchasing power for the lower levels of income. The fact is that the rich have become richer and richer, but the poor no longer know how to pay daily living costs. In addition, there are also large differences in the various economic sectors, such as health, public and personal services – and, unfortunately, very massive differences in the incomes of men and women. However, it is amazing that there is an obvious difference in gross annual income between the federal states. In Lower Austria, you get 23 776 € gross; in Tyrol, as the last federal state, 20 671 €, where there are also blatant differences in income between men and women as well as between individual districts. It is also striking that the lowest incomes – i.e. structurally – are found in countries such as Carinthia, Salzburg and Tyrol, i.e. “Tourism countries”. It can be seen that seasonal income differences have also been included in the Court of Auditors' report. We demand from SPÖ fair wages for services provided, regardless of the state in which you live. It can't be that in some federal states less money is paid for the same work than in others, but at the same time the people concerned have to get a lot deeper into the bag for the essential things of daily life. One feels the first months of the SPÖ government, one feels the initiative in particular of the Minister of Women Bures, and I think that the now socially democratic coalition will continue in the future – and she has already done so in a very short time – to make significant corrections accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24693	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Chapel, for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24714	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The current income report of the accounts courtes deals with the years 2004 and 2005. The report itself is a very comprehensive and excellent report with many useful innovations, based on solid basic material from Statistics Austria. I should like to congratulate all the people involved in the report on this excellent work. If there is a call in the Committee for a broader and deeper writing of the future reports, it is certainly good if the necessary infrastructure is available for this, but I think that this report already shows much work for us and that this report presents great challenges to the social partners, especially to policy. I think we should all accept the challenges. Much of the core content has already been addressed: This report confirms the lowest income for the working people and also confirms the highest income for officials, which must be added that these values have to be clarified by stating that there is a large academic share in officials, that the average age is comparatively higher by five years and that there is hardly any part-time work there. The income situation of women – to be referred to only 60 percent of the average male income – represents a situation which is undoubtedly to be changed. Even more dramatic is the income situation of female workers with only 45 percent of average male income. This situation also continues with regard to pension income: Female pensioners must earn 50 percent of the income of male pensioners. One last note, because in the past there were discussions with the previous government about whether pensioners got more or not: This report also shows the increase in pensions, adjusted by the structural effects, on: for 2004 0.3 percent, for 2005 0.99% – at an inflation rate of 2.1 and 2.3 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! Brisance is in this report by the Court of Auditors – and a lot of work is waiting for us.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24759	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24781	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! In advance, a message: Austria's football team leads 3: 1 against the ivory coast. [[Congratulations to representatives of SPÖ and ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Super!]] Reports of the Court of Auditors have always been received with respect in this House, so thank you to the Court of Auditors – Mr Moser – for the excellent preparation. However: The merciless presentation of some of the facts through statistics is already painful. Although we have known for a long time – we have discussed this over and over again here – about the differences in income between men and women, but when you see the naked numbers, for example, in positions where you can't really understand this, you're wondering why this is so. I have chosen from Table 22 the gross annual income of full-time workers by sex all year round. There are the positions ‘highly qualified activities’ and ‘leading activities’. – I mean, a highly qualified activity is a highly qualified one, since there should be no too large a difference, but no pay differences of up to 40 percent. But even more significant is the position of “leading activities”, where women have to take almost half of wage losses. It is also vital if it is the same in the public sector as it is in the public sector, where we jointly have the power to ensure justice. Also, in the “highly qualified” area of € 41 500 for women and € 51 800 for men, the disadvantage for women is clear. As for the position of leading activities – €47 000 to €55 000 – it has become a little better, but we will still have a lot to do in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been led to see it – and that should be our mission enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24823	Mrs Silhavy has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24845	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am going to take a very short look, because the time has already been very advanced, but I would like to make a few comments on the comments made by Mr Rossmann, who has referred to politics in a specific way. The public service, ladies and gentlemen, is an example of equal treatment for women and men, even though we have not yet achieved equal treatment at 100 percent. Since the 1990s, there have been women's promotion plans, which have contributed significantly to the fact that the differences in gender pay have not been so marked. In this context, I should like to point out that, in the negotiations with the public service, Mrs Bures wants to bring in more drive, as well as in the public service, more women also come into senior positions in order to penetrate the glass ceiling and also to create a model for the private sector, which I would like to call on to follow. For years now, it has been known that just leaving work as a result of child care and child rearing is one of the most important points why women have lower wages than men. I should like to point out that, not least in this House, child money flexibility has been decided on, i.e., the re-regulation of child care allowances, in order to allow for shorter exits, and yet to achieve equal treatment for children and mothers and fathers, if they take advantage of what they hope will happen. A key point is also the compatibility of work and family. This is a focus that not only the Minister of Women, but also the Secretary of State at BMWA, has set itself. In the context of the financial compensatory negotiations, there was another kick-off to create childcare facilities especially in poorer and weaker regions. It has already responded to the conclusions of the report. Last but not least, I would like to point out that at the beginning of the year we raised the compensatory allowance rate on the poverty threshold. We have tried to secure a corresponding income in particular for that population group where income is weakest. On the basis of these few points, Mr Rossmann and ladies and gentlemen of this House, I have demonstrated that the new Federal Government is seriously and with all its means to implement the findings of this report politically in such a way as to eliminate those disadvantages that have been identified. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24887	Now comes Mr Mag. Kogler. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e24908	Madam President. Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! First of all, the Liberals' motion for a resolution: Yeah, that's clear. It's about § 9. Additional incomes are also incomes. They have to be reported – you know the ritual – but why they should appear more or less on a secret list is not quite clear. In this respect, the intention of the matter is very clear, even if the headings do not agree. It is about § 9; he has clearly expressed this. From the same contract limitation law we are talking about here, I take out Article 1 § 8 and may turn to the main point. In this context, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser twice for teaching me in this matter. I remember: When we went to the implementation of the Relevant Restriction Act – that is all not so old – many have asked themselves, some of them also in the Court of Auditors: Why does the Court of Auditors have to publish it and do it there? The fact is that the data come from Statistics Austria. Thank you very much also at this point - now I have a third thanks in between - because it was also available to Members in the committee with Council and action; I do not know if this has already been mentioned here. So that works. Of course, one could say – what the predecessor, Dr. Fierce, has worked on – that: Then let the other institution publish immediately! You can discuss all of this, you can have it all, but the essential and important thing is that there is anything at all. That is why this debate has been held for so long, as long as no majority here in the house finds that we are publishing income and distribution reports under other editorships. But it is important and necessary all the time; Mr Rossmann did that. Detto will become important – now I jump to the last point – that we have a asset report, a report on the distribution of assets, anyone who can publish them. Then: Not only that this is half a secret science in Austria, it is also true that this would be an essential basis for further scientific work, but above all for political assessments, therefore for the people, for the colleagues here in the house, simple and touching. You almost don't understand why you want to refuse this insight. The few results that exist are dramatic. It was, I believe, the Prime Minister who, at a lucid moment, commissioned that, using certain scientific methods, a particular scientific working group should carry out such a thing as a gross assessment of the distribution of assets. [[Abg. Scheibner: Hello! What's that? You've been sitting here all day, and you're starting to cheat now! That's incredible! You should hold back more!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Madam President, there is a call for order!]] Please listen to the result of what has been valued there! One percent of the Austrian population owns one third of the assets, and another 9 percent again a third. That means, the richest rich... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] You, Mr Trade Unionists, would rather ask yourself about the content and not about these stories! [[Abg. Neugebauer: You need to watch a little bit with the language! You have a model function!]] Two-thirds of the assets in Austria are owned by only 10 percent of the population. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] There you can wake up the watch as you want! We should talk for another 20 minutes about the role of the Christian Union in the distribution of income and wealth in this country! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neugebauer.]] Come on, come on, come on. No one understands what kind of policy you're doing here anyway. That's what everyone should read! That's incredible! Well, it's true! Then. [[Abg. Newborn: Your language is horrendous!]] Even if you sit here all day, this theme is still important. We can address the President together that we also have issues such as income reports, income distribution – you also belong to a Christian party, listen to me! – and share of assets here once at an earlier date. [[Abg. Steibl:... cursing!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would suggest at this point that, if the next report comes under Article 1(8), we will be looking forward to the substantial enlargements and further improvements – I assume the President will address it immediately; you will also have to listen to it; do that, that will be important – have this information. On this occasion, the third thank you I have announced is that, as I know from the Court of Auditors, we are constantly working on further improvements here. The same applies to the report we will be discussing at the next item on the agenda, namely the report on EU finances. I should now like to start by expressing my praise, because I will not speak again, so that Mrs Steibl can sit here a little more calmly, if she already has nothing to do with the Christian principles of her party at 10 p.m.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25028	Mr Kogler, I would recommend to you, including everyone else, that, despite the advanced period, the debate be held in peace and that the vote be taken accordingly. [[Calls to the Greens.]] The next item is Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Dr Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25059	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to start by thanking all of you very much for having received this income report so positively from you. I would also like to thank some Members of this income report, so to speak, for being referred to as a standard work, and may in this context pass on this thanks not only to the employees of the Court of Auditors but also to those of Statistics Austria. I must say that this cooperation works in an excellent way. [[General condolences.]] In this context, I am pleased that the recasting of this income report has been so positively welcomed by you, namely in the light of the fact that it has become more readable. You know that the old income report has had two pages Executive Summary, which has now become 25 pages. There has been an in-depth consideration of the public sector, the private sector. Business income has been better presented by including business registers. You will find inflation-adjusted income in this income report. The pensioner budget index has also been carried out. That is to say, this area is really a basis from which to derive a lot. You will also find a description of how income or higher income growth has taken place in the upper income segment and how income has developed in the lower income sector. This is certainly a basis for what direction policy should be taken. And in this direction, the Court of Auditors will also continue to deliver a document that can be used to determine whether the income is distributed in such a way that it can actually strengthen the purchasing power in the country. In line with the suggestions we have received from the Court of Auditors, we will work to further deepen this income report. In other words, in the next income report you will also find an analysis of gender differences and also an analysis in the field of self-employed persons, especially since this was, as has been said, also one of the points raised in the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the Court of Auditors currently has three reports to draw up. One report is in accordance with Article 121(1). 4 where the average income of the Board of Directors, Supervisory Boards and other employees of undertakings subject to the control of the Court of Auditors must be announced. You will receive this report in December of this year. The report relating to the disclosure of personal income received from legal entities who are also subject to the control of the Court of Auditors cannot be presented because this would not comply with the Data Protection Act. In today's report – § 8 para. 4 of the Relevant Limitation Act – it is clearly stated that there are average incomes to be reported, but not exactly what Mr Rossmann has mentioned, namely that a balance of assets is made, that the incomes of the budget are presented, or that, as Mr Bucher mentioned earlier, an hourly rate is also stated. These would be requests or suggestions on your part, which you would at least have to accept in the context of a change of law. If so, the Court of Auditors would very much like to comply with this request. At present, however, it is not possible by law. I would like to thank you once again for the in-depth discussion, including for those in recent months, and I hope that this report will contribute to making the right suggestions so that policy can take the right action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25125	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-7 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of it to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution by Members. Houses, colleagues and colleagues on disclosure of Members' contributions to the National Council and the Federal Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[22:22:36]] 16. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the report (III-57, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors, Series Bund 2007/7 (235 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25183	We're going to the 16th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Dr. Herber. 2 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25214	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President Moser! This EU financial report for the first time in 2007 is available to us, it is also constantly being supplemented and renewed. You must now understand that I am not going to present it completely now. This report is an important guide to policy, but also to control. We should close a control gap. It is true that revenue and expenditure relating to the EU running through public budgets are examined by the Court of Auditors, but not direct funding, for example in the field of research. I think one is very, very important: Control is generally announced and would do us very well, because there are also all kinds of upheavals in the EU. Many resources will go from agriculture to research and development. We can, as I mean, be model students and should also be exemplary. There will be transparency on the part of the EU in 2009. The agricultural speaker Kurt Gaßner will also be keenly interested in this: From 2009 onwards, EU direct support will be transparently listed. These also concern agricultural support, both in terms of the level and in terms of the recipient. Finally, we will see whether the agricultural sector is actually being distributed as fairly and fairly as it is always said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25253	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25274	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! The EU financial report points out that Austria is paying relatively much into the EU, but in some areas it can get a lot of money again. In the EU, a budget of € 106 billion is available, and it is really about how these funds are distributed. In 2006, Austria paid €302 million more than it could get out. In 2005, it was €278 million, and in 2003 and 2004 it was much more than 2006. So there are variations when it comes to paying and generating funds there. The paymaster is the Federal Republic of Germany, which pays €20.5 billion to the EU. The largest recipient is France with €13.5 billion, but this in turn pays €16.6 billion. It's about having an overview of what the money flows look like. For example, Austria uses the 100 percent framework in the field of rural development, while we use only 65 percent in the structural sector. In total, we use the opportunities of the programmes to 86 percent. In the future, Mr Herbe has already said that there are some control gaps – in the field of research, it is also a matter of increasing the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of funding. It is mainly about combating fraud. In some countries, for example, the recoveries resulting from EU audits are very massive. Overall, this financial report offers a great overview. I thank the Court of Auditors for this. I wish we could get more out of the EU in the future or pay less than net payers into the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25318	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25339	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Mr President Moser! This report is also a very good report, I think, because it is one of the few information we have on the EU budget in Austria. There is a little bit in the additions to the Federal Budget, but we have not had a detailed report like this yet. That is why I would also like to thank you for this report, Mr President. What is this report about? . This report deals with the presentation of the past, the income situation, the expenditure situation, the net payer position of Austria, but, of course, the current situation, the current EU budget situation, is also given the framework for the coming years to 2013. I found the use page particularly interesting in the report. We will still have to talk to the revenue side if we discuss the own resources decision later, and I would like to save myself now. Looking at the use side, it is noted – and it has already been pointed out – that the agricultural sector has been the one that has benefited greatly. Around 94 percent of the funding is financed by the Guidance and Guarantee Fund. However, what would be very interesting in this context would be to consider these EU funding by the Court of Auditors, namely with regard to effectiveness and economic efficiency. I don't think the only representation here that funds have flown into a sector is too little. In this context, for example, the question would also be: How much did the distribution of these funds cost in Austria? How much do the Chambers of Agriculture have, which are very substantial, these resources... [[Abg. Gahr: This is well known, Mr Rossmann!]] Then bring this to me! – Then: How much do the agricultural chambers get for it? [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Next point: The European Commission has launched a consultation mechanism or a review process on the need for less emphasis over the next few months on spending a lot of money on agriculture, but above all on European added value. Specific question: In what direction should the EU budget actually develop in the future? The question here is: Do we want to continue as before? Do we want to continue to bring a large part of the EU budget into agriculture? Or do we want to step up the European integration process? In other words, a stronger focus on the Lisbon Strategy, a stronger focus on social cohesion, a stronger focus on sustainability, in particular the ecological variation of sustainability. In particular, the question whether the EU budget, as modest as it is, is something that should be extended in future to other areas, such as economic stabilisation. These are processes and opportunities that the European Commission has opened up to us. We should not go back, when this process is over, and say: No one asked us. Everyone is invited to this debate, at least the European Commission has done so! However, if we are now discussing the use side and the future of the EU budget, it will be essential that we also discuss the revenue side, the financing side. The question here is whether the current financial side should not be taken off via transfers and whether it would be appropriate to finance the EU budget via its own tax. This debate is not entirely new within the framework of the European Union. It is being dragged away again and again, and in reality, even at the last decision on own resources, one has not gone further. However, I will address these questions a little more in detail later on when we discuss the own resources decision. Finally, I would like to point out – and this seems important to me – that financial control is also addressed in this report: Once, the Court of Auditors is in favour of strengthening cooperation between the European Union's top audit authorities. – I would expressly support this from the Greens. The second point, which I have already mentioned, is also specifically raised by the Court of Auditors. It calls for the closure of control and audit gaps in relation to EU funding. – The Greens also fully support this, especially since the fight against fraud in the European Union is at least a serious problem, and especially since EU budget reliability declarations are given only very conditionally and limited. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25384	Now comes Mr Mag. Houses to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25405	Madam President. Estimated State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Moser, compliment also on this EU financial report! In this matter too, you have our full support as regards the expansion of your control and testing skills. Of course, it will be absolutely useful to control direct payments in the future. I also believe that all those projects, which involve a lot of money from the European Union, by the Republic, must be monitored immediately. I am thinking, for example, of the construction of the Brenner Base Tunnel, where accompanying control is absolutely necessary. In any case, control must be announced, because alone the possibility to control is preventive. We have already discussed in detail in the last committee that the threat of control alone is already a more cautious way of dealing with public resources, with means of taxation – as is generally the case with corruption in Brussels. In view of the fact that, as reported by the “level” in July, the EU is sinking in the anti-corruption summit, fraudsters in Brussels daily make it easier for almost one million €, that last year a total of 1.1 billion € are stifled in irregularities, and that since 1999, according to OLAF, incredible 7.3 billion € have been slammed, the expansion of control is absolutely a priority. It is therefore also a priority, because we netly pay too much for Brussels and it is not at all clear that parts of our funds, which we do not voluntarily pay to this extent – at least in the opinion of our group – are sent to Brussels in dark channels. It can't be! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Another thing that I am still interested in is the different amount of our contribution to Brussels. There are three numbers: According to the EU Commission, we pay €277 million annually to Brussels, €387 million to the European Court of Auditors and €706 million to the Ministry of Finance. – That would interest me and, of course, the rest of the Austrians, which is now effectively paid by us to Brussels. It's clear that it's too much under the line on our part. In conclusion: We are in favour of a more democratic appointment of the control bodies in the future. Our representative in the European Court of Auditors cannot only be nominated and appointed in the main committee on a proposal from the Federal Government, but of course our representative in the European Court of Auditors must be appointed by the Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] It cannot be said that the administration is setting up a inspector in Brussels and controlling itself independently. It's a thing to do. And, of course, the right of the Austrian Parliament to order must be strengthened.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25462	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25484	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Moser, you have gratefully submitted an EU financial report which provides us with important data, especially on the high level of return from Brussels. Of course, the different representation of the return flows is interesting when calculating the net contribution from the European Court of Auditors, your home and the BMF. That's where the numbers correlate from 300 million to 700 million. So it would be very good if we had a size here, from which we could then assume how high the net contribution actually is that we deliver to Brussels. Nevertheless, we of course support your efforts that direct payments should also be subject to your control in the future, so that we can get a better picture of the effectiveness of the return flows and of what is being promoted. So more support from our side for the control of the funds that flow back from Brussels, but also with the elimination of double and triple examination skills. A test site that provides a sound information would be the most desirable from our point of view.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25514	Mr Faul is now speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25535	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Very soon: My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this EU financial report is an important reference work for all those dealing with financial policy, budgetary policy, and ultimately for the economic operators in all political groups. I think this time, although these figures were certainly known to those responsible in recent years, the financial report is a nice statement on the use of revenue from our tax services on the one hand. But, Mr President – and this is true of Europe as a whole – on the other hand, it cannot be so that in an economic move that we urgently need that you have called for today, 74 percent – three quarters! – the funds are tied up and flow into areas that can never be profitable. The worst thing that comes to mind is: For example, the small and medium-sized enterprises that you have spoken about for the economy today have not even had access to this funding. They were excluded by the fact that these programmes did not exist. There is probably an improvement in the next few years. What I see as quite missing is that, for example, research, development, continuing training, which brings us the advantage of China, vis-à-vis India, simply has no means available. If you compare these bound amounts for Austria of €1.2 billion – for example, € 10 million for research, € 8 million for universities – once we move there would give funding to universities, which really lack money, and to people who pass on to us through their knowledge, then they, students and development in Austria, would be very much served throughout Europe.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25572	Mr Sieber has now come to speak. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25593	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President. High house! For the first time, we are discussing an EU financial report presented by the Court of Auditors in this way. I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors for this work. 85 percent of the EU budget can be allocated directly to each Member State. And these funds are directly assigned to the Court of Auditors. 15 percent are administrative expenditure for external policy areas and similar, 74.3 percent of the return was from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund. But more interesting is surely the question: How do we manage these funds? – At present, the European Commission manages about 80 percent of EU expenditure in partnership. In other words, the EU bears the overall responsibility, while the Member States hold the management and control. With us in Austria, payments for agriculture are processed almost exclusively through the AMA. Since its very existence, the AMA has been controlled not only by the Court of Auditors, but already more than a hundred times by external control bodies of various institutions at federal and EU level. The result: The management of agricultural resources works perfectly. Austria has not only collected 100 percent of the funds available for rural development in Brussels – much more important is that Austria has the lowest national burden after Luxembourg. In other words, we had to pay back least fines to the EU. In this context, I would like to mention that Brussels is moving forward that in the future controls will be more and more carried out by the national parliaments and their instruments. This is certainly a commendable approach for me as a federalist and will probably be implemented in this way. Only we will have to look very carefully at whether this does not make the risk of national charges too great for us. I think we will have a lot to discuss in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25630	Mr Haimbuchner has now come to speak. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25652	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr President, Dr. Moser! High house! The Freedom Party of course also welcomes the preparation of an overall report on the European Union's revenue and expenditure and the use of EU funds. And we thank you very much for drawing up this very interesting report. The net payer position of Austria was clearly established here and also that there are different methods of calculation by the EU and by the Court of Auditors. To this end, it can only be said that the EU is obviously trying to cover up the net pay position. However, we want to have an accurate information here in the future, which should be transparent. Given that transparency and sustainability, efficiency and sparingness are constantly being discussed, it would be necessary, of course, to have real room for these concepts in this sector too. It was made clear by the report that there is still the so-called British discount. In my opinion, it would be good if the Austrian Federal Government were once to work to get rid of this British rebate, because it is not at all clear that some Member States are simply treated better than others. We must do this and, of course, we must call on the Federal Government to do so. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A particular problem, however, is the use of EU funds. If we consider the statements on the statement of assurance here, we must say that is already very worrying. This instrument has been available since 1994. But never since this instrument existed has this statement of reliability been guaranteed with regard to the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions at all by the European Commission or Parliament. That's basically crazy. Then you don't need to wonder if there's a mirror article – my colleague Hauser mentioned it first; that's the number. 35 from 2007 – under the title ‘Check or Messer’: "Every day, fraudsters make the EU easier by almost one million euros. Brussels officials are often at play. Europe's government centre is considered the ideal breeding ground for the environment, self-service and corruption. There are currently more than 400 investigation procedures against possibly corrupt EU employees, some 70 of which concern staff at the Brussels headquarters. Only the thickest cases end up with the prosecutor’s office.” My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, it should be very thoughtful for us to vote on what happens to our money, with hard-earned tax money, in the European Union. There just has to be another control. But you don't need to wonder: The OLAF Anti-Fraud Office was created. Since its existence, larger and larger sums have been illegally discharged from EU funds. This is, in principle, a perversion, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. But this does not have to surprise you again if you know who was used by the Committee on Budgetary Control as the rapporteur responsible. This is a certain Mr Musotto – and I quote once again the “spiegel” – whom one has chosen for this: “As a lawyer, he defended several Mafia suspects. In November 1995, he was himself handcuffed because he should have hidden a high-ranking mafiaboss in his villa. The Sicilian came back soon, was finally acquitted and again President of Palermo Province – and is now the responsible man in the fight against corruption and fraud in the European Parliament.” – It could be believed that one has made the bock a gardener. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! There is still a lot of work in this area. I can only call on everyone to cooperate accordingly, also working in the committee responsible, to ensure that EU funds are properly monitored. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25721	I now give the floor to Mr Wöginger for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25742	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Three brief comments on the really good, informative EU financial report 2007. It has already been mentioned: The net contributions from Austria are presented in different ways. In this respect, a uniform presentation should be made that the Commission does not represent less contributions to the net number of Austria and the European Court of Auditors chooses a different form of presentation. In my opinion, I believe that I should be a layman – I think the population would also be able to see the figures; I believe, especially given that tomorrow the “Kronen Zeitung” is dealing with the European Union in a side-by-side manner, that it would also be critically illuminating, it would be good – the figures already represent what they are: Expenditure less revenue; what comes back is the difference, which is the net contribution. And I think that's how it should be represented. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One should not only question this critically, but also say how important the European Union is for Austria in terms of economic growth and export figures. We benefit from this EU accession, and that is why these figures are justified. The second point: I would like to mention rural development very positively, especially the LEADER-plus regions from which rural areas benefit enormously. In my home district there is a large project, the treetop path in Kopping, where really high amounts of money were invested, also by the EU. The five hundred thousandth visitor was recently welcomed. The whole region is lively there – also the gastronomy and the economics. And that's hugely important, so it's the right investment. And the funds for rural development are also used up to 100 percent. Finally, the third point: Mr President Dr. Moser, thank you for your staff, your staff, your officials and you personally for preparing this report. I mean, you should pick up some points here to present the matter as it really is.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25786	Mrs Silhavy has now been reported on behalf of the State Secretary. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25807	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Matznetter! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that the Court of Auditors' report mentions the different functioning of agricultural funds and Structural Funds and that it is also clear why the level of utilization of the Structural Funds can only be determined in 2008: because payments are made afterwards. However, I have spoken in terms of the fact that, quite rightly today, the word control - and this, of course, is also true of the Court of Auditors - has been mentioned very often. I would like to point out that, although we already enjoy triple A confidence in the Structural Funds within the EU – that is to say, with our national control possibilities and control at the federal level, we are particularly But we are now in a situation where further control mechanisms are being applied for the new period of operation. Especially in the area of the Structural Funds, that is, where innovative projects should also be promoted, especially in regional areas where this is necessary and where it appears to be eligible, we are slowly able to find more and more project promoters, because the costs of control in relation to the expenditure they have for a project are increasing. I would just like to point out that we are now trying to reach agreement with the EU Commission on this, and that an overkill of control by all of us cannot be desired. [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Thank you for the applause. – Finally, of course, we are in favour of no abuse. But if funds can no longer be used and applied, because the control and administrative burden are so great, then I believe that we are missing the objectives of these projects. I would therefore ask you to take this issue into account and to support it if it is possible for you to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25858	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, has now been notified. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25880	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. State Secretary! High house! First of all, I would like to thank the fact that this report has also been received very positively, because the Austrian Court of Auditors is one of the few audit courts in Europe that have returned a report on this subject in order to provide you with the necessary information for the exercise of your control rights. The present report builds on several elements, including the fact that the principles of the EU budget are presented to you, the EU payments and return flows in a very detailed manner, the development of the net payment position, the use of EU funds in Austria, the outlook for the financial period 2007 to 2013 and, in particular, the current developments in EU financial control. One point that has been raised: As far as net contribution payments are concerned, it is right that there are currently three methods of calculation, with the currently only recognised public method of calculation being that of the EU Commission, which takes into account, as such, the so-called British discount or the United Kingdom discount. We have a further calculation carried out by the European Court of Auditors and also a calculation by the Ministry of Finance, which does not include, for example, direct funding, i.e. the so-called payments under heading 3. These three types of calculations have different systematic approaches. For example, when comparing the calculations made by the EU Commission with those of the European Court of Auditors or the Ministry of Finance, the traditional own resources are not taken into account here. Customs duties, agricultural duties, sugar levies are not taken into account because they are considered EU revenue and are not assigned to the individual Member States. Customs duties are also not assigned to each Member State. Why? – Because it cannot be assumed that the person paying the duty also has a residence or establishment in the State or Member State concerned. That is why no allocation is made here either. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: That's it!]] Another point to mention is that the administration cannot be assigned directly to the national state. This means that administrative costs are allocated to each Member State by a specific key. However, one point that concerns us and in which we could create more transparency would be that all EU revenue to be financed from Austria, the so-called return flows, would be included in the budget with us after gross pre-financing, but not project-related. This means that there is a lack of transparency here. We have already had a discussion about this with Finance Minister Grasser in the examination of the 2004 financial statements, in which the Ministry of Finance has also demonstrated that the funds will be recorded in the future and not in such a way that gross pre-financing takes place, which is why transparency has to be suffered. One point that has been raised is control. Since 1994, the European Court of Auditors has not been able to make an unrestricted statement of assurance, i.e. to make a positive statement of assurance, because there are also weaknesses, problems, mismanagement in various areas. The only area currently considered to be positive is an area of agriculture, provided that the funds are handled through the so-called InVeKoS, the integrated control system. On the other hand, in the Structural Funds, also in other areas of agricultural support, internal and external Policy areas Problems with the presentation, transparency and use of EU funds. It is about – and I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take this into account – as far as the EU is currently concerned as the control of EU funds is concerned, that the EU is increasingly moving towards involving national parliaments, including the Member States more closely in the control of EU funds, in the form of an attempt to take the responsibility of the kind. 274 of the EC Treaty is the responsibility of the Commission to move more closely to the Member States, in order to have national declarations, namely ex-post declarations and ex-ante declarations, which say that the Member State – the Finance Ministers say – confirms that the control systems are functioning and that the EU rules are also complied with. So that's a political statement. However, there is no added value for control policy and leads to a shift in responsibility in the Member State and that it certainly does not bring with it what you, Mrs State Secretary, have addressed, namely, a control-political added value. It would therefore also be necessary for the measures taken in the ECOFIN two years ago to be continued, to be taken in the direction of enhanced control of funds and efficiency control, and not only to carry out legality and regularity checks in relation to EU funds, but also to carry out economic audits. It is necessary to know in the field who makes mistakes, what mistakes are made, and how to avoid mistakes. But you can't do that with a purely financial audit. For this reason, it would be useful to go also the way of economic auditing. It would be necessary to simplify EU rules in certain areas in order to avoid misunderstandings and misunderstandings. It would also be necessary for EU provisions or EU measures to be increasingly subject to the cost approach in order to know the impact on the Member State. Ladies and gentlemen! The last point is to ask you to go in the direction of creating a centre of competence for financial control and to be taught at the same level of equal standards and methods across the EU, because in no way can financial control in Greece be seen as a different from in Portugal, in Austria, in France or anywhere. That would be a way to go. As far as Austria is concerned, it would be appropriate for the Court of Auditors to be able to carry out direct support in other areas of external financial control, as now the direct payments of agriculture can be controlled by the Court of Auditors. That would be the concern. I am therefore seeking that the approval of this – which was already in place in the Austrian Convention – that direct funding can be examined by the Court of Auditors will also be implemented in the context of the constitutional reform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25918	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We come to the vote on the request from the Committee of the Regions to take note of this report III-57 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this notice to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:58:58]] 17. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany (III-87 p.b.) for 2006 (248 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25962	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e25992	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President, Mr Moser! It's now 23:00: Agenda item 17, we discuss the 2006 Federal Accounts. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, you have to!]] In the late spring of this year, we decided on the budgets for 2007 and 2008. In fact, the implementation of the 2006 budget should be the basis for the 2007 budget. Of course, this has been done with today's treatment ad absurdum, although the procedure corresponds to the letter of the law. The report must be submitted by the end of September at the latest, and it is now in good time on the subject of the discussion in the Committee on Budgets on 11 February. He ended up here in the plenary on October. But if we are now discussing the new budgetary law... [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] There is no need to praise this, Mr Donnerbauer. You have to discuss the contents – and then you can see if there is anything to applaud on the 2006 budget implementation. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But we will have a new budgetary right in Bälden – I suppose we will decide here – and then the budget will be decided earlier. In the framework of the so-called Federal Financial Framework Act, at least in accordance with the Government's proposal, this law shall be passed by no later than 30 years. It is also a matter for the Commission and the Council to take a decision on a proposal for a Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the There are limits on expenditure for certain headings and, at the same time, for the breakdown into the previous departments, the expenditure for the coming year is already binding. In other words, the main points for the budget will be decided in the spring. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: Please, talk about the subject!]] If the financial statements of the previous year are to form the basis for the budget of the following year, then the legal status we currently have is extremely unsatisfactory and cannot remain so. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We discussed this new budgetary law yesterday in the context of a hearing. I have already taken the impression that at least some parts of the members of the government intend to end this legal status and at least the core of the financial statements, namely the forecast comparison, to discuss by the first quarter of the following year at the latest, so that the implementation of the last year can also form the basis for a debate on the following budget. Now I come to some details of the federal accounts. On page 17 I find once again the demand for a constitutional and administrative reform – this was already a topic this morning when we discussed the financial compensation: The Court of Auditors calls for a constitutional reform and an administrative reform and says that this is to be implemented in the ongoing financial settlement negotiations. The financial compensatory negotiations have ended – and what has happened in this regard? - Nothing! The federalism of old style remains. It was actually taken the second step before the first, and it is not likely that the second step will follow the first. I assume that a state reform will not change once again. In the past, attempts have already been made: from the Perchtoldsdorf Pact to the Austrian Convention in 2004. But what has actually become of administrative reform II? I would like to ask you this, Mr Matznetter. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: To go back at 23 o'clock until 1992, is a community! Perchtoldsdorfer Pact 1992!]] I have noticed that this administrative reform II has again become an integral part of the financial compensation pact. I would be interested to see where the evaluation provided for in this Administrative Reform II package has remained. What was the impact of this reform on the Federal budget in 2006? How did this affect staffing, how about staffing, how about overtime? Where do you find all that? A second point I would like to address at the content level is that 2006 has been an excellent economic year, but we must note that this year the Maastricht deficit for the general state has fallen by only 0.2 percentage points. Thankfully, Mr President, the latest figures have recently been made available to us. In particular, it has been found that the countries have failed to comply with their commitments to the Stability Pact. There is only the question: What are we actually doing with this Stability Pact? Will there be an evaluation of this Stability Pact? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Questions about questions!]] I already know that this Stability Pact has been undermined by its own government programme and now again by the financial settlement negotiations. But what is the meaning of a law, a pact, when we have it and then we don't take care of it as a result? – It can’t really be. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Speaking time!]] On another point: the burden residues we find on page 30 of the report. As claims in the order of € 6.6 billion are due; of which € 2.8 million, I have read, in execution. ==References== ==References== – Mr State Secretary, how much of these €2.8 billion has already been entered into the Federal cash registers? With regard to 2.9 billion of these 6.6 billion, there has been the situation that these have been suspended. Why were these exposed? – There are still approved applications for payment relief. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's 10 minutes!]] How does it look? This would be very interesting in view of the fact that we have high funding needs in various areas: from childcare facilities to school and universities. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26134	Mr Sonnberger has now come to speak. 1 minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26156	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! I would like to focus on a subject, namely the development of corporate taxation. In this House, how much was the opposition criticizing the reduction in corporate tax! These 25 percent were absolutely necessary as a competitive advantage. Now, when we look at the development, we see: The company tax increased by €415 million to €4.88 billion in total. That is, there has been a very, very positive development! One can also see the number of self-employed workers in this context, which rose by 1.7 percent in the 2006 reporting period. So we took the right measures at the time. This is also true of group taxation. In this financial statements, this policy, starting from the year 2000, is given legal status and ultimately certified success. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26186	Mr Grastaur. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the honourable Member for his excellent report. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26209	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, the 2006 federal accounts show some positive features. In small steps it has gone forward. However, if you look critically and look critically at this 2006 federal accounts, it is unfortunate to note that the government's debt policy has continued. There is a deficit of 1.7 percent. It is particularly striking – and I would like to make a few points in view of the already very advanced hour – that the additional revenue has been “swallowed” again by extra expenditure. It would have been possible to put together a zero deficit in 2006 because the additional revenue amounted to € 5.8 billion. Unfortunately, additional expenditure has also increased by this amount. On the subject of rethinking in financial management, I would like to mention the following. Yesterday Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer said: Why do we stir up, the zero deficit was not planned, there has anyway been more revenue, and the deficit of 1.7 percent is absolutely fine! - I think we have to think about it. We simply need to use possible reserves resulting from particularly good economic development to cover the debt of the state. Second point: Mr Matznetter also answered the question at the last budget meeting why this deficit appears. He said there was a need to counter the streets, the buildings and the public investment. - That's right. But there are countries that also build streets and public buildings that have a plus in the state budget, namely the Danes with 4.3 percent. A third point is – Mr Rossmann has already mentioned it anyway – that is why I can make it short: Unfortunately, God’s potential for savings is not being used again and again, although the Court of Auditors and all experts point out that it is essential to make a reform of the administration and Constitution and also a reform of the state. Unfortunately, we have missed a great opportunity to improve the budget in the financial compensatory negotiations. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26247	Mr Krainer is speaking next. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26268	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors Dr. Moser! Mr State Secretary! First of all, on the comments made by Mr Sonnberger: Of course, the comparison with the Köst is a bad comparison. The fact that corporate tax revenue is rising in the high economy is a matter of course – and one cannot compare the revenue from Köst in an economicly bad phase with the revenue from Köst in a economically good phase and then say in a little bit: We have lowered them, but it has become more! – The decisive thing is how this is happening over the years, and then, of course, the Köst revenue will be less. That's not a question at all. About the economic cycle they have to be less than before, otherwise proof that mathematics is not true – and I do not think so. For the invoice, which is available here: It is no wonder that Federal Minister Molterer does not re-establish himself and wants to stand straight for it. This is no wonder because increasing deficits in the high economy is something bad. In about the same economic situation, we are now making the new Federal Government a third to the half deficit. So there's also a change of course, and that's good. It is also seen that the tax reform, the “greatest of all times”, has not arrived. It's all to read anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That's why you're going to vote against it, right?]] We take note of the work of the Court of Auditors that he is presenting this to us, and we note that the former Federal Government has been ill-treated. Yes, we take note of that here. I would also like to express my express thanks to the Court of Auditors and to the staff for the work they have done, because that has not yet been done, I believe. It is very important that we have a question that Mr Rossmann has made, and that is: How are we going to deal with the new federal budget law as a parliament in the future? What effect does this have on the financial statements, on the time we invest et cetera? And I think it is right to redefine this time vote. In the hearing, all parties are relatively close together anyway, and I would be pleased if, in a little more than a month, we would unanimously adopt a new federal budget law also with new rules, as we do in Parliament. [[Abg. Peter Haubner: There we are now further apart!]] [[Abg. May. Rossmann: Here we will see if we can go!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26334	Mr Themessl is the next speaker. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26355	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! High house! Yes, in three minutes, it is very difficult to address a few details, so in principle one question: I noticed this early on that Mr Dr. Stummvoll said in the course of the debate during the current hour on budgetary compensation that two things were important to him: Firstly, the Ministry of Finance, because in his opinion it is the most important and most diligent. – Whether it’s the most diligent, I can’t judge, the most important thing is sure, because he has my voice. I noticed that he said that three points were important to him in everything that matters about money or finance or the budget. Among these, he mentioned the budgetary discipline and the ‘budget discipline’, as my colleague stupidly called it, as a point. Now I ask you: Did the last year already go for you – or did this not apply until this time? If last year's gone, I'll ask you a question: You have accepted €66 billion in the budget and just over €60 billion in revenue. Thanks to the fact that the economy was very good, economic growth has increased above average, you have had €5.8 billion in additional revenue at the end of the year, as the Court of Auditors also notes in its report. And if you had taken the budget discipline seriously, you would have had the first year for many, many years in which to present a balanced budget last year, in 2006, and then it would have been a great pleasure to agree with it today. You do not have that, however, because the budgetary discipline did not vote. Now I ask you something more – now my colleague is stupidly there –: What about this year's budget discipline? Now we know the figures for the first half of 2007. As the forecasts are very good again, that is, it will run out in about something like last year was the case towards the end of the year, if we do not experience another breakdown, because in the meantime the Inflation rates have already increased alarmingly over 2%. And now I'm asking you: Take How Important You're doing this budget discipline this year? For this year, additional €4 billion of debt in the budget is planned again. If you can get over €5 billion in additional revenue again this year, and the budgetary discipline is so important to you, I now assume that at the end of this year, of course, a balanced budget will be available. I believe it is important that this year there is a balanced budget, because the next year and the years after, 2009 and 2010, according to forecasts at Weitem will not be as rosy as this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26404	Mr Bucher is now speaking. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26435	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President, Dr. Moser! Ladies and gentlemen! I am now saving you from commenting on the positive economic and budgetary policies of the Schüssel II Government, taking into account the sunny state of mind of Mr Matznetter, the Secretary of State, whom I do not want to narrow down, because he has already received a few broad pages today. [[Abg. Oillinger: Please, Mr. State Secretary!]] Because we also discussed the financial compensation this morning, it is very important to me that we also take up a recommendation from the Court of Auditors, namely the examination of the communities of less than 20 000 inhabitants. Everyone knows that the financial interconnects are becoming increasingly complex. Communities see it as a real aid if they receive recommendations from the Court of Auditors in the course of audits. That is why I think it would be a useful way to give the Court of Auditors these audit competences in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26470	Mr Peter Haubner has now come to speak. 1 minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26494	Madam President. Mr President, Mr Moser! Mr. State Secretary! Mr Krainer, if everything was as bad as you think – I think I can quote from the 2006 federal accounts: The Austrian economy developed extremely well in 2006 compared to the previous year and also in international comparison. I mean, that's all. The Federal Accounts 2006 shows again clearly the successful economic and financial policies of the last seven years. Responsible budgetary policy has to set very clear priorities – and that is what we have done, ladies and gentlemen. For me, as a sports spokesman of our party, it was particularly pleasing that the excellent development of federal sport promotion in 2006 also found its continuation. Although there has been additional expenditure in the Federal Chancellor's Office of €50 million, it is particularly encouraging that of which €37 million for sport, €22 million for football, which was EURO. The Austrian national team has Today 3 : 2 won. We're on a good way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26534	Mrs Mag. Trunk is the next speaker. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26555	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Estimated Secretary of State! Very soon: I share Mr Rossmann's criticism of the value of the debate of the 2006 federal accounts not only with regard to the time, but also with regard to the order of the agenda. In fact, it would have been a good opportunity to take stock of the last year of the German Chancellor Schüssel's era. We will not do that now because parts of the ÖVP have enough to carry on this backpack of the past in the new coalition – and we, all Members, too. However, I do not share the view and assessment of Mr Rossmann regarding the development of the budgetary right under discussion. I'm sure I can see some chances. The chance, and I place consensus in all parties that we move for the first time in the history of budget creation in the Republic of Austria towards a gender budgeting. For colleagues from the FPÖ in Austrian translated: We will finally have the effect of using means of taxation on women and men, and we will be able to re-adjust them effectively and effectively. I also see an opportunity, for us, the Parliament, if we all want it – it is not planned so far – for us to now establish clear rules for the game for the Minister of Finance, for the other ministers and for the Parliament regarding the handling of budgetary law. I see that there is a great need for action and also a great opportunity for the value of Parliament, namely to share and to involve itself in material matters, not only formally and again. In this sense, in the parliamentary sense, we would all be called upon to work together for greater democratisation in the budgetary process. We have this chance. Today, the ÖVP did not tire of calling Mr Vice-Chancellor the Minister of Labour. [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Work chancellor!]] I do not understand why the competence should migrate from the Minister of Labour to the Vice-Chancellor. I notice: During the financial settlement negotiations, whether early or late, one was there – Christoph Matznetter. Whether in Parliament early or later there is one there – that does not have to do with incense, but with facts – that is Christoph Matznetter. And it was he who had been thinking about the new budgetary law four years ago. Thank you. That's okay, Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26593	The next item is Mr Eßl's speech. 1 minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26614	Madam President. Estimated Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! I thank you for the opportunity to speak here. We are discussing the figures in the 2006 federal accounts, and they are better than in the proposal, and this shows that in the past a good policy has been made, a policy on which we can build. I am not surprised, therefore, that even the Committee's Secretary of State Christoph Matznetter found that politics was not bad, but that it was good. I am convinced that this will continue to be the case with Deputy Chancellor Willi Molterer as Minister of Finance, who is sure that the taxpayers' money will be dealt with responsibly – and with the ÖVP in the government, which is the guarantee of sustainable management: in the interests of the citizens of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26643	Mr Steier is now speaking. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26665	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, as has already been mentioned, we are looking at the 2006 budget implementation by a distance of ten months. We do so on the basis of objective figures and facts now identified by the Court of Auditors. In this case, the following should be noted: Despite positive economic developments at a real economic growth rate of over 3 percent, less unemployment, a better current account balance and better inflation, the public deficit was 1.7 percent of GDP. To this end, the Court of Auditors notes in its final statement – I quote – that: Despite these favourable conditions, the budget's downturn was limited. - Quote. The government's public debt of €159.1 billion or 61.7 percent of GDP also relativizes the declared objective of the old federal government of sustainable budget consolidation. At the same time – and this is actually the main content of the financial statements – the imbalance of the tax burden remains: 90 percent of the revenue is obtained from eight of the 100 existing tax types. The income tax revenue has increased, from 16.9 to 18 billion €, in return the income tax rate has fallen. The figures in the Federal Accounts 2006 prove our criticism: Distribution policies have been disregarded, and relief from self-employed workers has not taken place. However, profits have been taxed or benefited, while the tax and tax burden has remained mainly on the resource of work. Ladies and gentlemen, we still agree to the billing, but hope that in future the contents will be different.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26711	Mrs Tamandel is now speaking. 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26732	Madam President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Those of the SPÖ who stand out here today and say that we have not managed well by the ÖVP, because we still have a budget deficit despite rising tax revenues, I must say: Who left behind the many debts, and who makes us pay €7 billion each year in interest? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I think if even Mr. German chancellor Gusenbauer says abroad that our economic policy has been good in recent years, also praises group taxation and our tax reform, then I can only say: They also deny the appearance of your Federal Chancellor abroad. That's all wrong! We have made a good tax policy, we have made a good economic policy, and if wage tax revenue increases, this is because we have a lot more people in employment than we used to – and for this reason, of course, wage tax revenue also increases. If you say that income tax has gone down, then you haven't read that it's the amount of the income tax you're charged for, because if someone recovers your income tax due to our good measure, for example, being able to bring up child supplements or, for example, using any other means of deduction, for which our Finance Ministers, formerly Grasser, now Molterer, are also making an advertising campaign to get people back their taxes, namely €300 million a year, then the alleged income tax we've shown here also includes the credit to wage tax. If you are familiar with tax policy or economic policy, that might be good for you. However, we will also make the next federal accounts very successful, because we will continue to appoint the Minister of Finance by the ÖVP and will continue to be effective here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26787	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26808	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mrs. Tamandl, let's leave the church in the village! Absolute numbers also speak for themselves: 155 billion € budget deficit, 10 billion € at the ÖBB and 10 billion € at the ASFINAG – this is just put down here. We discussed the 2005 accounts five weeks ago. 20 months later, all 20 minutes we discussed. Today we advise the Federal Accounts 2006 and ten months after that 40 minutes. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Did you really talk about 155 billion € budget deficit?]] If you look at the debate on the federal accounts in plenary today, and above all at which time it is held – but perhaps this is the case at this time of day, because the Auditorium is better than at noon – then I would just like to mention that no company in Austria will only deal with its balance sheet for half an hour or 40 minutes. I think it's too little and it's too late. Professor Mr Lehner said yesterday in the hearing about the budgetary reform, we will talk about quarterly reports for a day and a half. – Far from it! It's only 40 minutes! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Did you really say 155 billion € budget deficit? There's something to mess with!]] If we had more time, we could also talk about other things, for example about some kind of overtime, for example about the German social security contribution of the industrial economy, which was exceeded by 25 percent or why the federal contribution to the social security of farmers increased by 5 percent and, on the other hand, the social security contribution for railway insurance fell by 6 percent. I think it is high time for a budgetary reform, including to strengthen the right of participation of the House and the parliamentarians, and in order to achieve a greater degree of distribution justice in the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26858	Mrs Stadler is now speaking. 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26879	Madam President. High house! Even though colleague Melitta Trunk said that the backpack would be a bit difficult: This federal accounts show that the backpack was a good one and that timely structural reforms carried out by the ÖVP federal government have a very positive effect. Austria is on an excellent, successful path to more growth and more employment. All figures show that, including labour market figures: In 2006, we have the highest increase in employees since the early 1990s, by 1.7 percent to more than 51,000 employees. However, I would also like to take advantage of the short speaking time now to give the countries and communities a great deal of praise for their budgetary discipline, because it is not always easy for the communities to take on the permanent added tasks that come to the communities and to keep them within the framework of the budget. Therefore, I would like to thank the local politicians that they have also made a great contribution to the success of this Federal Accounting Accounting in 2006. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26907	Mrs Franz is now speaking. 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26928	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President, Dr. Moser! High house! Yes, there is no doubt that the federal accounts for the year 2006 are more excellent. There is excellent economic development, we have excellent figures. This has been shown several times. Of course, such good results do not fall from heaven, but are achieved through positive budgetary policies and, of course, through the reform steps of the past years. Nevertheless, we will have to work hard, because we want to make a tax reform in 2010 and we want to look forward to a balanced budget in 2009. – Vice Chancellor Molterer is sure that this will succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26958	Mr Matznetter has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e26980	Madam President. Mr President, Dr. Moser! Ladies and gentlemen! I would have been tempted to speak as a Member of Parliament on the financial statements in 2006, it would have been nice to have the Minister responsible for the department here at the time, but I would just like to give a few figures to make the discussion in this regard. Point one: As regards the issue of tax revenue development, it has already been pointed out that the increase in tax revenue amounted to €415 million in the corporate tax sector, €1 160 million in wage tax and in the income tax sector, minus €13 million. I should also like to remind you at this point that the wage rate has fallen further and that we also expect a significantly rising wage tax revenue for the next few years. That is why the new Federal Government has taken a decisive step towards remission in the 2010 tax reform. By now we will also achieve a budget consolidation of the 1.4 percent public deficit reported today to a surplus of 0.4 percent. As is already known, we will reduce the 0.9 percent deficit for this year's proposal and thus bring it in the right direction. Since the question has been raised as to how consolidation success is, let me take a look at the past. If you look at the last three legislative periods, you can see: It was the public deficit at the beginning of the previous legislative period, i.e. 1995, 5.6 percent, in 2000, at the beginning of the previous legislative period, 1.5 percent – which was a consolidation that the then government had achieved of 4.1 percent – in 2003, at the beginning of the last legislative period, the deficit was 1.6 percent – which was 0.1 percent deterioration – and now 1.4 percent with the 2006 annual accounts. I believe that the rest of the interpretation in this House can be followed by reference to these figures. However, I believe that the path we have now taken is the right one, namely, this year's about as good growth as 2006 and also in the case of falling growth in the next few years, nevertheless, this consolidation will be taken seriously, accompanied by a number of other measures aimed at improving both in the social field and in the field of education, in the area of increasing the research and development rate, in improving the funding of universities and in a very clear infrastructure programme. We have carried out a programme and will implement it, as it will bring improvements and will carry out within four years a consolidation of the 1.4 percent deficit to a surplus. With regard to the issue of the discipline of the other territorial authorities and the question raised by the Stability Pact, I should like to remind Mr Rossmann that, together with the financial compensation, we have agreed on a new Stability Pact, which provides for a lower level of surplus from the countries, i.e. realistic values. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: I spoke about 2006!]] I should also like to remind you at this point, however, that the Maastricht accounts, particularly as regards the national budgets, have in the past given rise to corrections which have often made it very difficult to implement the necessary controls in budgetary consolidation. We agree with the countries that on the basis of these reduced values of 0.4 and 0.5% of the gross domestic product, they will actually achieve these objectives, and I would also like to point out at this point that the sanctions mechanism provided for in the Internal Austrian Stability Pact was very difficult to address in the past. Although individual countries have failed to comply with this discipline, the Federation, which has failed to comply with the budgetary objectives it has set itself, is in a certain difficulty to ensure compliance with its partners if it itself has not fulfilled the commitments made in the past. However, in the current legislative period, we will meet our commitments, which we enter into as a covenant in the Stability Pact. But that also means that we can demand and demand from the financial compensatory partners with fug and law and they will also comply with their obligations in this area. Last point: With regard to the question raised by Mrs Tamandl in relation to the calculation of the wage tax amounts arising from the remuneration of employees, it is in principle correct that these are included, however each year the credit of the previous year is included, so that it is likely that from the overall development of the income tax charged can be read in an indicative way, to the extent to which taxes have increased or fallen. My honest opinion on this is: I believe that the situation of small and micro-enterprises in Austria is very difficult, that we have to do a lot for these companies and that they do not have the profits to pay the tax. By the way, this is exactly the opposite in the profits of large companies. I recall the increase in the profits of the companies represented in the ATX. In this area – I say quite openly – we expect ourselves to make a significant increase in contributions in the future. We will work together in the tax reform to ensure that this balance between what the little ones pay and what the big ones pay is in the right place between what workers pay and what businesses pay. I invite you to do this work together, and maybe we can do it beyond the past in a cooperative form. I would be very pleased – and that would be good for the country too. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But no more today!]] Thank you for your attention, too, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27032	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, is now speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27053	Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Schüssel has just pointed out that it is appropriate to talk shorter. I will stick to this after the federal accounts have been dealt with here in plenary just recently. I would like to point out that the figures in many areas are also satisfactory internationally when compared with 2005, but at the same time I must point out that there are many signs that indicate that structural reforms are essential. The Court of Auditors, both with the government debt committee and with other experts, believes that it will not be possible to achieve a balanced budget without structural reforms. In this context, I would also like to take a positive view of the fact that, as part of the financial compensation, the local authorities and the countries are now increasing by means of they are also more involved in the responsibility. However, it would be appropriate in this area to include communities as such, after they are increasingly responsible and have more and more burden of transfer, also in transparent external financial control. I would like to point out that, for example, the President of the Municipal Government – on the occasion of the parish day in Klagenfurt – has observed that never so much money has been transferred towards the small municipalities. I would like to remind you that in 2005, the declassified population key in favour of the smaller communities was changed from 1 1/3 to 1 1⁄2, so that there will now again be the flattened population key and that in addition, losses resulting from it will be paid off. This means, however, that if this is the case, at the same time it is also very likely to be taken into account for efficient and transparent use of funds – that is because especially in the field of education, care, language training, childcare and so on, the interconnectedness of financial flows is extended. On the other hand, this certainly means that it is too little to have 24 communities inside in an external financial control, in a benchmark comparison, but this area, as I think, should be extended to budget-related communities. In this context: This is not about the perspective of a community, but that you know – as it is necessary to distribute funds with the financial compensation really effectively and justly – where the funds have to be diverted. However, it is certainly also beneficial for the communities if they know whether the transfer charges with the transfer income are in any way in relation, i.e. that there is an appropriateness with regard to the financial flows. It is also of interest to the citizens of the Community that transparency is also available in those establishments where actions in the field of general welfare are carried out in a restricted, non-competitive way. As it is currently true – you know – that distributed legal entities of the municipalities are not subject to transparent external control. This is a point that should certainly be considered in the context of a constitutional reform. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] Even if there is to be a fair distribution of resources in health care, education and so on, transparency is needed, but this is not yet available in many areas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would therefore ask you to include this point in your future considerations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27110	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 248 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. [[Abg. Parnigoni: (because some FPÖ members have only risen from their seats and then resettled) Well, what now? Yes or no?]] – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Confusion in the club!]] We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[23:42:53]] 18. Point Report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 29/A by Mrs Ursula Haubner, Members of Parliament on a federal law amending the Act amending the War Victim Care Act 1957, the Code on Victim Care and the Law on Vaccines (249d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27178	We're going to the 18th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. No one is reported in the word. We therefore vote on the request from the Committee on Budgets to take note of its report 249 of the additions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. I accept Amendment No 29/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. [[23:43:48]] 19. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (224 e.g._Other Organiser Decision of the Council of the European Union of 7. June 2007 on the system of the European Communities' own resources (244d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27234	We're entering the 19th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. It is the first honourable Member to report on the matter. Rossmann, for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27261	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! The Greens will not agree to this new own resources decision because there is no corresponding structural renewal. Despite fixed rules on the basis for the calculation of own resources, the net payers in the new own resources decision once again – once again, I would say – took exceptions to reducing their contributions; above all, the UK with the so-called UK discount, became famous by Maggie Thatcher, who said: “I want my money back!” With all the complexity of negotiations on own resources, which are much more complicated than our financial compensatory negotiations, because they are much more Member States, it cannot be that we are maintaining such a transparent and unfair system of own resources financing in the future. What we need is rather a debate on own resources, of course linked to expenditure. This means that we need to discuss an EU tax; There are a wide range of proposals: of kerosene charges, which, for example, provide less incentive for palm beach holidays in times of climate protection; Energy taxes or the Tobin tax, or possibly even corporate taxes. Moreover, the corporate tax would be able to significantly reduce the harmonisation problems we now have. This would also be superior to location policy. I therefore believe that one of these variants or another should determine a future own resources decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27300	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stupid for 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27322	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! The present documents on this European Union financial plan 2007 state that in this period the contribution of Austria will rise from 0.83 per cent to 0.88 per cent of the gross social product. – But this is only half the truth, because the net contribution is a fraction of this amount, with a gross contribution of 0.83 percent, for example, in 2006 the net contribution was 0.1 percent. The second is that it is actually not a matter of accounting value, but of economic profit. We are Austrian net payers, we are economic winners of the European Union, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As a result of the accession to the European Union alone, the social product of Austria is €10 billion higher. With a 40 percent tax rate, that means that we have €4 billion more in tax revenue – and that with a net contribution of approximately €300 million. That's an economic profit.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27358	The next item is Mr Lutz Weinzinger's speech for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27382	Ladies and gentlemen! So now we have heard a contra and a pro; a pro very enthusiastic, a contra very scientific. – May I consider the “news” of popular opinion a little? [[Abg. Parnigoni: The popular opinion has never been restricted!]] The results of a survey of a very large Austrian daily are also available to you. [[Abg. May. Kukacka: We can read for ourselves!]] – You can read for yourself, but I can tell you very briefly, only four points. What bothers the EU? . It is particularly disturbing that there is corruption in Brussels and that accession funds are wasted. According to this survey, 60 percent of Austrian citizens believe this. Furthermore, citizens are bothered by the fact that we have to address ourselves in accordance with nonsensical rules from Brussels. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That's what 58 percent of our citizens feel. It is of particular concern to citizens that the EU does not take into account Austrian interests, such as transit rules. It is 56 percent of our citizens who are allowed to believe this survey. – And when I hear the Tyroleans talking, I believe this survey already, and when I hear the Innviertlers talk, as well. Fourthly, the citizens are bothering us that we are less and less able to determine how we want to live. That bothers 52 percent of our population – and me very much. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Go!]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the period 2000 to 2006, €1 900 million was made in contributions from Austria. That was our contribution. I admit, we got something back, yes, we got some; I admit that too, but: Why is it that the purchasing power of our citizens has not increased accordingly? Why is it that, in recent years, the incomes of Austrian citizens, especially those of non-residents, have not been raised accordingly? – So someone else may have participated in these benefits. And now this €1 900 million a year for the next period, i.e. 2007 to 2013, is to be increased to €2 300 million, i.e. by a plus of €400 million. Ladies and gentlemen, not with my group.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27455	Next, Mr Bauer, Mr President, will speak for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27477	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! We hear again and again what the EU costs. However, it is not calculated what benefits come from the European Union. It was stupid to say this today: One should not only look at this strictly accounting, and I therefore believe that it is important to see the European Union's revenue from the point of view of economy and also to talk about what the cornerstones should look like in the future; they are defined by 2013. I believe that one should actually discuss whether, for example, after 2013, corporate tax or other taxes will be available to finance this budget. However, what I would like to say, because I think it is very important, is the question of the mood: In fact, the mood of the Austrians – and I have also carried out some studies – is very skeptical of the European Union. But if you ask the question of whether to withdraw from the European Union again, 80 percent of Austrians say that they absolutely do not want it. So that means: Mood is a matter, but the decision on the European Union is firmly and deeply anchored, because the benefits are clear. I would also like to say: In the future, it will be not only about revenue but also about the transparency of expenditure. I think this is a great challenge for the future. In 2009, for example, EU agricultural support will also have to be disclosed. I do not yet know how the Austrian Minister of Agriculture will behave, but let us assume that he will act in accordance with the 27th. This means a significant shift in the quality of the discussion and, ultimately, a shift from land support to business promotion and, above all, to job-related promotion. I believe that the European Union is of the greatest benefit to Europe and, in particular, to Austria. A law of transparency must therefore be required, and we want to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27514	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27535	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Economic advantage here, peace dividends, you always hear that. – In fact, the Austrian population is very skeptical about the net contributions from Austria. I think everyone wants to deliver as little as possible to the big money exchange machine in Brussels. We are a very EU-critical party and do not let everything go about us. That is why we will not give our approval to this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27563	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech for 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27584	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! This Decision redefines the EU's own resources system. For Austria, this means that we will contribute €400 million more to the EU budget by 2013. That's a slight increase. I am already listening to the speakers of the opposition parties who will therefore vote against the EU. That is why I would like to remind all those who have briefly remembered how much we have benefited vice versa from this European Union. Let us look, for example, at the issue of border security or the issue of jobs. Zig thousands of jobs, very well qualified jobs, are only available in Austria because we do very good business with Hungary, Slovenia and Slovakia. Consider, for example, the promotions for disadvantaged regions such as Objective 1 areas or for the miners, not to mention the many exchange programmes for apprentices and students! – We should think of all of this when we talk about the resources we make available to the EU.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27614	Mrs Hagenhofer is now speaking. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27636	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) My colleague, Mr President, has already said this: Economically, Austria has benefited greatly from the European Union. I do not think we should overlook – and we should tell people – that six out of ten euros will be recovered from the export. This means that jobs will also be covered accordingly by the European Union, because the majority of exports go to the countries of the European Union. It must also be made clear that €1.757 billion of return flows have come back to Austria, which, in turn, are invested in research, innovation and structural policy, up to and including – and this must not be forgotten – the payment from the EU Solidarity Fund for solving the impact of the flood disaster that has plagued us. The scepticism of the Austrians might also be negative if, in the future of the EU budget, the main focus is on employment, education and training. (ii) to improve the quality of life and the quality of life; (iii) to Then there is equal opportunities, and that would be a social compensation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27675	Mr Obernosterer is the next speaker. 1 minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27696	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the EU's own resources system is a good system for Austria. I would like to thank the Minister for the good outcome of the negotiations. We know that Austria is a major beneficiary of the EU, and we also know that the following items have been greatly increased in the budget, which are also very important for Austria: For example, for emergency aid for environmental damage plus 21 percent, for management and migration flows plus 24 percent, for environment plus 11 percent, for energy and transport plus 12 percent. We also do not let the EU say everything, but we are EU-friendly and behind the EU because we know that Austria is only benefiting through the EU. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27727	Next, Mr. Ing. Oh, my God, my God. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27748	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The Financial Committee recommends that the Assembly adopt the Council's own resources decision by the votes of the Government Parties. This also ensures the orderly financing of European policies. There is no doubt that the additional contribution can be made by Austria. It is a future investment, of which, as in the past, there is a return to Austria. Of course, this decision cannot solve all European problems. The issues relating to even more just and transparent budget financing, to European tax harmonisation, to the demand for a kerosene tax or also the question that in Austria, as the current Union financial report shows in 2006, 70 percent is spent on agriculture and 17 percent for structural measures, will require our discussion in the near future. Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is a continuous process that deserves our attention. Of course, there is also often legitimate criticism, but the ever-increasing oppositional criticism without a realistic alternative is not the most intelligent procedure either. We should be aware that Europe does not happen somewhere. Europe is also happening with us. That is why we should not take the opportunity to form. That is why the SPÖ will continue to build Europe in a serious way, and we will therefore also vote in favour of the own resources decision today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27785	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee to give approval to the conclusion of the State Treaty in 224 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Article 49(2). 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Danish, Bulgarian, English, Estonian, Finnish, French, Greek, Italian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Maltese, Dutch, Polish, Portuguese, Romanian, Swedish, Slovak, Slovenian, Spanish, Czech and Hungarian language versions of this State Treaty are to be made known as a public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. [[00:01:04]] 20. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (200 d.a._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Kingdom of Denmark in the fields of income and wealth taxes, together with Protocol 245, e.g.) 21. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (201 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement amending the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the State of Israel on the prevention of double taxation in the areas of income tax and wealth (246 d.a.) 22. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (225 e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Macedonia on the prevention of double taxation and on the prevention of tax evasion in the areas of income tax and wealth, together with Protocol (247, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27865	We now come to points 20 to 22 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. Mrs Seligman is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27895	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are adopting three agreements to avoid double taxation. In a global economy characterised by bone-hard location competition, double taxation agreements are an ever-increasing need for modern times. An attractive agreement not only supports the export industry but also strengthens Austria as an economic location for business settlements. This is, of course, linked to the flow of capital and technology from abroad. Improvements in Austria's economic location are also a contribution to job security. Such an agreement must ensure that it is not possible to circumvent taxes. Legal certainty is another important point for such an agreement. The content must be clear and clearly recognizable for taxpayers and their consultants as well as for the financial administrations of both countries. Austria has a further need for double taxation agreements with other countries. Negotiations with Denmark started in 1997 and were successfully concluded after a longer break in the negotiations. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] In the case of Macedonia, there is currently no double taxation agreement. The main aim here is to establish or deepen economic relations between Austria and Macedonia. This also means avoiding tax evasion in one of the two partner countries. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] With Israel a change in the contract of the already existing double taxation agreement concerning the benefits for artists and athletes is taking place. A balanced relationship between corporate promotion, the elimination of illegal design and the production of optimal legal certainty are the major challenge for all double taxation agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e27946	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. That is what we are getting to the vote. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. Firstly, we shall vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force, agreements with the Kingdom of Denmark in the fields of income taxes and assets, in 200 d.a. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty, the Agreement amending the Agreement with the State of Israel to avoid double taxation in the areas of income and wealth taxes, in 201 d.e. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force, the agreement with the Republic of Macedonia to avoid double taxation and to prevent the creation of a single currency. in the areas of income tax and wealth tax, in 225 d.a. the authorisation to be granted. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[00:06:03]] 23. Point Report by the Immunities Committee on the request of the National Criminal Court of Vienna, 224 hours 244/07m, for approval of the official persecution of the Member of the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler(226 d. B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28023	We're coming to the 23rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28053	Ladies and gentlemen! I am not speaking about the innkeepery and the suspicion of false testimony against Westenthal. In this case, the Committee was unanimously of the opinion that there was no link between the political activity of Mr Westenthaler and the suspicion of the false testimony or the host company. I am concerned – not only with me and the Greens, but also with some others – that in the second Causa, in which the Public Prosecutor's Office in Vienna desired extradition, the majority of the committee, that is SPÖ and ÖVP, felt that there was a connection to the political activity here. Now I'm telling you what it was about: The accusation stood and stands in the room that Westenthaler, who at the time was not a member of the BZÖ but a candidate for the new BZÖ, wanted to influence direct or indirect intervention – both stood for the debate – with the Minister of Justice in order to separate the proceedings against Mr Flöttl from the main proceedings, because Mr Westenthaler was hoping for an advantage for the BZÖ in connection with the 2006 election movement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] At the time, Mr Westenthaler was not a Member, but a candidate. – I am coming to you, Mr Klubobmann Schüssel. For reasons of time, I do not read to you § 308 Criminal Code, prohibited intervention. This is in principle a question of whether to take advantage of an intervention for itself or for a third party. I know that many Members, as I have seen in the Committee on Immunities, are startled because they think that intervention is part of the everyday business of Members. - But that's not the point. Rather, it is a question of the criminal law governing very clearly what is forbidden intervention. Read this section 308 through! As you will see, at least the assumption is that what is being accused of toe Westenthaler and what is contained in the Criminal Code could be quite equal in coverage. It could therefore very well be forbidden intervention. However, the accusation or request of the public prosecutor concerning Deputies Westenthaler went on: It is also a request to Parliament for the suspicion of the crime of incitement to the abuse of office. And that's not without it! Already the forbidden intervention has a criminal framework of three years, and the abuse of office has a criminal framework of ten years. Now it comes: The majority of the Committee felt that there was a link to political activity. Yes, you know – and it was our attempt to discuss this in committee – what does that mean? If the candidate of a party, who then enters parliament, fights in the election, cheats, whatever does – we do not talk about the offences against the body, the body – and if he says there is a connection with political activity, then the immunity committee will always raise its hands and say: yes, we see a connection with political activity? [[Abg. Strache: Or one shot to get a mandate!]] – That can’t be it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is the first point, and the second point, at least equally, is: The investigative committee for the investigation of banking activity – BAWAG and so on – and financial market supervision was of the opinion by a majority that the statements of Mr Westenthaler are a case for the public prosecutor and for the criminal courts, and has therefore submitted a statement of facts: SPÖ, Greens and FPÖ. [[Abg. Scheibner: What was the result?]] There's no result. The result is that the public prosecutor has made a request, and exactly the same SPÖ that said: yes, we believe that it is here to be determined!, then raise your hand in the immunity committee and say: We do not believe that it should be determined because there is a connection with the political activity of the non-retirement Westenthaler. If you have asked me so well, Mr Scheibner, I will tell you: Yes, the prosecutor has acted in accordance with their duties and has asked Parliament to do so. And Parliament, although the Committee was of the opinion, says yes, with the voice of the SPÖ, which was still another opinion in the other committee: No, we don't want this to be determined. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this is a case in which the SPÖ is acting on the gang of misunderstanded comradery of the ÖVP towards the BZÖ – or male friendships – I do not know what else, or Haberer parties – is doing. They shall be responsible for the fact that this Causa, which the investigative committee has actually considered to be worthy of investigation, cannot be established in this case. You have a high responsibility in the Causa immunity on this question concerning the Westenthaler Member!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28115	Next speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28136	I believe that at one point we can all meet: that the way in which Mr Westenthaler designed his election struggles, the way he appears, the way he argues, is always rightly critical and that what has happened around Gastinger, BAWAG, Westenthaler, phone calls and so on, cannot be accepted by anyone at all. But... [[Abg. Oils: But what?]] Mr Oellinger, you have spoken here as if he had already been a convict. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] For you, he was already sentenced, guilty, out! And it was the question: Why is a convicted and guilty person not even delivered? - That's incorrect! [[Calls to the Greens.]] Because we have a tradition in the immunity committee, which applies to everyone. Everyone can get into such a situation once, and you have to answer the question very precisely and correctly: Is there a political connection, or is there none? – That’s crucial! [[Abg. Ollinger: He was a candidate!]] Again: This applies to everyone inside. There can't be two right, because you don't especially like one, one less, or because there are any backgrounds. The majority of the Committee on Immunities has only adhered to this principle! [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It is therefore perfectly clear: First point, host shop – no political connection, extradition. Second point – political context, no extradition. I believe that this must apply to everyone and that you don't fry extra sausages there. [[Abg. Sburny: The SPÖ is really...!]] On every question of sympathy or non-sympathy for Mr. Westenthaler – and I have no sympathy for his kind of political debate, I cannot tell you how little sympathy there is! – but this principle should be adhered to. [[Abg. Brosz: Why the application in the Banking Committee?]] It may be Mr Oellinger's colleague tomorrow, and it may be Mr Pilz's tomorrow, who will be in the immunity committee once, as it were, a disposition. [[Abg. Sburny: That's not the point! You know that!]] That is what I am excited about, then, the argument of the speaker of the Green Group. [[Abg. Brosz: Why the request in committee?]] So we do not want to leave this principle, even if it is a beelzebub like Westenthaler.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28275	The next speaker was Mr Graf. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28307	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Donnerbauer, you will come to me anyway. This is good because I hope you will repeat your words here, which you have also said in committee as chairman, namely: [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: If I have enough time!]] It is perfect regardless of what is committed. I'm already a little different than you. One thing can't be – I've got a case on my hair that might happen –: Candidates in the list square one; the listing place two liquidates one, which enters the Parliament and is praised. Afterwards it turns out, he's in the suspicion that he killed the other one. And then we say we don't deliver? [[Abg. We're talking about a political context.]] – Classical political context! It must have happened in some of the countries of this earth, that such a thing happens. [[Call the ÖVP:Where?]] Or that someone is forced not to take up his mandate – it should have already been done, ladies and gentlemen! I know a Member of Parliament who has been sitting in the ÖVP series – that's not criminal law – because he has been put under gentle pressure to give his mandate. Nothing criminal, but I would like to say at this point. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: What does this have to do with history?]] I distinguish between the types of crime and I would like to see this in the context. What is the political context at all? Who defines that? Every time? Or when it comes to who comes into a mandate, then there is a political connection, say: if an intervention is successful, then can one do nothing against those, and if the party does not come to Parliament, is one persecuted? – It can't be! You have to think about it once: If the intervention is so successful that Parliament can be taken in, is one out of the tailor? - So I don't want to be involved! In this context, I would like to make a little difference. It has also been true that this desire has come to the prosecutor's office through the SPÖ's initiative. You already have the responsibility! [[Abg. Oillinger: This is a steep story at all!]] It took two months because you tried – for two months, in the time of 14. February 2007 to 23. April 2007 – to bring your coalition partner on board. He was almost on board and is then shortly before the introduction... – That's why there is no caller on the presentation of the facts, but he has been decided in the accompanying letter because the ÖVP has signaled until last, she goes there. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] That was important to you. When it would have taken more time, they asked: Let's do it now, or don't we? – Then they said they did, and it was decided: ‘The members of the Parliamentary Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision’, and so on, forward a letter to the Public Prosecutor’s Office, ‘in the case of a statement of a case concerning the statements of Ing. Peter Westenthaler and others from 14.02.2007’. “The investigative committee asks you” – the prosecutor’s office – “to take action. §§ 12 in conjunction with §§ 288, 310 StGB and other acts and, where appropriate, initiate proceedings.’ That is what we have decided, and also the case-law, which originates significantly from your spring. Then the public prosecutors attack the majority desire of a committee set up here by Parliament and say: In order for us to examine and take appropriate steps, we must of course also have the persecution authority of the immunity committee or a corresponding decision. . It then seeks, and the same group says, in that case the SPÖ: No, we don't want that to be tested now. There's one thing to ask: The Committee of Inquiry – as we are in a competition – examines the political responsibility. Ministers are usually not subject to immunity, unless – there are cases already – I have said so: usually – he is also a Member; that is also the case. In other words, if there is an investigation committee, we need to recommend only more to the politicians, to the ministers: Stay on your mandate, then nothing can happen to you! There's something going on, that's what appears, you want to take care of the responsibilities accordingly – and then you don't do that because he happens to exercise his mandate. – Then we don’t need an investigation committee anymore! What kind of political responsibility is this when a clubman of a party, let's say that there's a reasonable suspicion of having intervened, and that it's forbidden to intervene and the like more if we find that and then nothing happens? – We are ridiculous on this question! That's the point: Where immunity makes sense, we also fight for it. We have already changed many opinions and have come to the conclusion that statements made by a Member and similar cannot lead to the prevention of the mandate, to the financial ruin and so on. I think we agree that there is still a lot to be improved. But in the case of certain types of crime – in addition to where a committee of this House is already asking for it – one cannot block itself! I can't put on another caperel every time. In addition, I already distinguish between the types of crime, perhaps different from all the others. If we say – as Mr Schüssel has said – that immunity is sacred to us, then we only need to take a little further into account the definition of the political context, and everything that can only happen to criminals, or if the majority of this House believes that there is a political link, in which the political context is not a fact-of-fact-of-fact, but rather is the responsibility of the majority in this House to determine what is a political link; I am going to be right. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: There is a saying practice!]] [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Yes, there is a practice! A saying practice!]] And if one is in the minority, and one does not see the political context, it is already being persecuted. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: But Westenthaler is in the minority!]] That's the question – and now there's something else: If in a committee of inquiry – and this is also a case that can happen – I have a reminder of truth, the severity of the obligation not to say the untruth there, and the like, we can save ourselves in the future with a Member if he says there! For for him a possible prosecution on this point does not apply anyway, he can say the untruth there. It can't be! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: This is a breach of confidentiality!]] What's a breach of confidentiality? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: This is a breach of confidentiality...!]] - Well, he won't be delivered either. It was in the political context, and that is then determined. That's where you need to differentiate. So if this proverbial practice is not changed – and it does not seem so – then there is an urgent need to rethink about immunity in many cases. In some parts it is even better to make and even more protection can be given to the individual Member. But in some cases we have to distinguish very well and ultimately decide that we have a different scale here. Otherwise, in committees, listening to Members – I have mentioned this example – is pointless, because this is the invitation not to say the truth there. I don't want to. I want us to take ourselves seriously. We will therefore not follow the recommendation of the Committee on Immunities, which the great coalition has made today. I invite the SPÖ representatives to remember that it has actually been a common wish – let us say so – of us to put this desire to the public prosecutor. We also thought about it at the time, the issue of immunity was not new. We didn't even think of it afterwards, we thought it over at the time. If you had told us then that you would not agree to extradition, then my group would not have brought in this presentation of the matter. [[Call to the ÖVP: That's not the question!]] That's the question: How to pack? – A pact itself has it that it still needs to be carried out afterwards. If you leave the pact, you don't have a handshake quality anymore. Today, the SPÖ's handshake quality is also to be voted on.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28483	Mr Dr. Stumm volvely spoke on an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28507	Ladies and gentlemen! If I understood Dr. Graf correctly, he meant that in the Banking Investigation Committee, the ÖVP Group would almost have gone along with a case-law presentation to the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is this an actual correction?]] As the EIA Group leader in the Banking Committee, I can make it clear that we are...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28540	Ladies and gentlemen, may I ask you: In fact, it is only to make known the facts to be corrected and then to oppose the right facts. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28555	I presented the facts: Mr. Dr. Graf has just said that the ÖVP would almost have been involved in the Banking Investigation Committee with a statement of property to the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Abg. Brosz: How do you want to judge this?]] As the leader of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I say right: We didn't almost go along, or even went along. That's the truth.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28606	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28628	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! In one I have to give my colleague Graf the: You can discuss immunity as a whole. That is what we have done, for example in the Convention Committee. It is a bit strange for me to say that precisely these political groups, Greens and indeed Blues, who at the time have always been in favour of extending immunity, and who, even in the previous immunity committee, once again called for a practice which we have even exercised, namely, to extend immunity, if it has affected a member of his group, now suddenly to settle personal or political invoices, or whatever in another case, that immunity should not be granted. [[Abg. Strache: Mr. Westenthaler has the abolition...!]] I'll hold on to this. Immunity is not a Parliamentary right. This is to be a Parliament's right to ensure Parliament's ability to work. [[Abg. Mr. Klubobmann asked for extradition, public?]] And above all, I would like to say that clearly – immunity is not a definitive penalty or an amnesty, but it is just a delay: For the duration of the membership of Parliament, it cannot be persecuted, of course, after that. This must apply equally to all – that is the premise for us – and cannot be dependent on personal animosities or political bills. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Was this a recommendation to Westenthaler?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28704	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28725	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Rethinking immunity – that is now, I believe, the best example. We have always expressed our support for the fact that immunity should be purely linked to the parliamentary statement in this House and in this context and that there should be no extra-parliamentary immunity in this regard. This should be abolished once and for all, because it is simply in the population that no human understands. It interprets everything a Member may or may not or may not understand by immunity. Above all, it is already unique for the Austrian legal system that the independent judicial system is now virtually required by policy to initiate extradition proceedings against a Member, although it has already done all its investigations and has practically twice as often provided a statement of the public prosecutor's case. I quote here: ==References== Feber this year, the prosecutor Wolfgang Swoboda in the APA announced that the investigations initiated on his own initiative had been terminated by the public prosecutor. A month later, the spokesman of the Vienna Public Prosecutor’s Office, Gerhard Jarosch, also announced in the APA that “it is impossible to recognize an attempted provision for the abuse of office. ” Ladies and gentlemen! Wolfgang Swoboda also argued similarly as a spokesman for the public prosecutor's office: “If it’s a politically clever or inconvenient intervention” – if it was – “nothing matters to the prosecutor. We have not been able to recognize an intervention in the sense of an instigation to the abuse of office after media coverage." We are definitely for an immunity-new, for the abolition of extra-parliamentary immunity, and this should be generally considered.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28760	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28781	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to join where my clubman stopped. I think we should do without harm to the people. Let us remember what discussions we have had in recent years! I'm just reminding both gentlemen: don't give up! We know all of this, and I really want us to resort to the purely objective decision. One has had a political decision to make, and the Immunities Committee has a legal issue to be resolved. Therefore, we have argued in the Committee that it cannot be so that the Immunities Committee is given something out of another committee, in the case of the Investigation Committee, and one has to take over. We would all be happy if we did not have such cases, but it was also mentioned by Mr Donnerbauer that we should together be careful that we do not always talk about the privileges of Members, because immunity is primarily intended to maintain this House; let us not forget that. You can always discuss further development, but we should really get rid of people or names. This is a purely legal decision. In addition, the case can be taken up again and again at any time after the end of the mandate. I do not really see a problem here, except that we have tried to tackle this problem quite legally and fairly in an admittedly sensitive case. That is all I think on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28818	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please. Mr. Dr. Graf, would you like me to give you a speaking time? - Please. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: (on the way to the speaker's desk) 20 minutes! Until I finish my post!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28854	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It is very gratifying, however the SPÖ always says, but the essential and decisive thing is: You have not yet clarified the discrepancy, why you in one committee, fully aware of the fact that a demand for extradition is still to come, or that you have also co-initiated it, and in the other committee, you have voted against it. In fact, I do not have your opinion with regard to us. I think that is the minimum we can demand from you that you explain yourself in this regard. But there may also be a very simple explanation. You may not be allowed to match the EIA on this issue. That's possible, too! I don't know, but there's obviously no coalition-free space. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is our concern!]] - That's your concern, too. Mr Parnigoni, look, I understand perfectly. That's your decision, yes. That's perfectly your decision. But feel good You don't think that's what you're looking at. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Who says that?]] Feeling Well You're not in this phase. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What kind of problem do you have with it?]] I have no problem at all, but it is only important for me to know, in the end, the reason for the change of mind. You still have enough time to explain. I already believe that we can or should do differently here than you actually intend to do. But they make this swivel without any reason, and that is not understandable. I call on the SPÖ, or at least part of the SPÖ, who can remember how it has finally been done to bring this desire to the attention of Mr Westenthaler to prosecution or extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28921	I now have a request from Mr Oellinger for a separate vote on the report by the Immunities Committee on the procedure for false testimony and the procedure for incitement to the abuse of office. I'm interrupting the meeting in the short term. We will clarify this in accordance with business rules so that we can carry out the vote properly. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e28956	I'll start the interrupted session again. We shall come to the vote, as no one has spoken and the debate is closed, to the vote on the request from the Committee on Immunities in 226 of the supplements, to decide on the following: In consideration of the request of the National Court of Criminal Matters Vienna for approval of the official persecution of the Deputies to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthal will be referred to in Article 57. 3 B-VG found that 1. in the fact of suspicion of false evidence according to § 288 para. 1 StGB no link to the political activity of the Deputies to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthalerbestand. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who conclude this first fact to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the second point, that in the fact of the suspicion of the attempted instigation to misuse the power of office and the prohibited intervention pursuant to §§ 12, 15, 302 para. 1 and 308 StGB – rationale temporis – a link between the incriminated action and the political activity of the MP to the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthalerbestands; therefore, an official persecution of the deputies becomes the National Council of Ing. Peter Westenthaler has not agreed. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who follow this second point of the request to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. [[00:37:49]] 24. Point First reading: Request by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Wolfgang Pirklhuber, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the AMA Act 1992, BGBl. No. 376, amended (335/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29043	We're now on the 24th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mr Pirklhuber. 2 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; the remaining speaking time Your group is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29071	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's already significant! A word on the BZÖ's position in this vote now: You have clearly seen that the colleagues of the BZÖ have remained sitting and have voted with the Greens. Just briefly: It may be remarkable that this group has clearly expressed the same view as the Greens. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dolinschek: You didn't listen to me!]] Now to the AMA law and to our own initiative proposal – I will keep it short –: The agricultural market Austria is responsible for agricultural marketing in Austria and responsible for the AMA seal and the AMA biomark. Ladies and gentlemen! In recent years, there have been discussions about this AMA bio-sign and about the use of funds. In this context, I would like to remind you that the AMA has even torpeded important advertising measures for organic farming. In this context, I would like to remind you of 2005 when it comes to the creation of an advertising spot for non-genotechnic meat production initiated by organic farmers in Austria. Or another example: the marketing measures currently carried out by McDonald’s, using the AMA biolabel. These are all things that, from our point of view, necessarily call for a fundamental search of the AMA law. Our own-initiative proposal is that at least those contributions that organic farmers make in the context of agricultural marketing contributions, Mr Hornek, are also really used for organic food and for marketing in organic farming. [[Abg. Hornek: You are a biocontroller and not a biobuilder!]] - Sure! 20 percent of organically produced milk is currently not organically marketed, and this corresponds to about € 220 000, colleague Hornek – € 220 000, which are denied to organic farmers. This initiative proposal provides that all contributions made by farmers who are organically farmers are actually used for biomarketing, and I would ask you to support this request in the Committee. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29124	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29153	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Pirklhuber, of course I can only agree with your request, because I and my group are also very concerned, because I think the organic farmers are trying above average. And I don't see at all when money is used for conventional or other advertising that the organic farmers are hard to produce and that they are deducted from. I think there would be fairness. Here you have to talk to the AMA very seriously, because I think it is very necessary here too. Especially organic farming in Austria has such a high priority in Europe. This benefits all agriculture. I don't think the farmers here are aware of that. Especially organic farming, of course, also brings a lot for CO2 reduction; that is also my concern. Nevertheless, I would ask that the farmers who work in conventional agriculture should at last take note that Austria's cold food shop is mainly carried by the organic farming industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29190	No one has been reported about this anymore. The debate is closed. I accept Amendment No 335/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. [[00:42:51]] 25. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Norbert Hofer, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law with which the federal law with which a care allowance is introduced is introduced (Bundespflegegeldgesetz – BPGG), BGBl. No. 110/1993, amended (327/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29229	We reach the 25th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Hofer. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29256	Mr President. High house! Indisputable is that there is further need for improvement in the area of care allowance for children. We need to realize that there are situations that pass through reality when it comes to the classification of care fees for children. At present, only that time is taken into account that goes beyond the time spent on caring for a child of the same age. You can imagine that if you have a five-year-old child and move in the house, you are in the kitchen and the child is in the living room, the five-year-old child – I am more often in the kitchen because I like to bake bread – that I can let my daughter play in the living room without anything happening. If the child is disabled, I can't do that, especially if there is a danger of self. There goes the Vorarlberger Care Act a very, very good way. In fact, it is stated that in the case of persons who are at risk of self-risk, supervision as a protection of the person is a need for care to prevent health damage and injuries. That would also be a very good arrangement for us at the federal level. The model Vorarlberg is a very good one here. I would also like to add that it is so important for children to take care of many activities in order to ensure that children are active in the context of the active care system. It is also important to learn new things. I don't have to do this with adults, but I don't have to do it for children who are not disabled, who are not in need of care. That means that this is a huge effort that should also be taken into account. The second point we are addressing here concerns wheelchair drivers, where it is currently established that wheelchair drivers who sit in the wheelchair for a very specific reason receive a minimum classification in the care allowance. I mean, it's wise to find that it's irrelevant why someone's sitting in the wheelchair, but that just this situation should lead to a fixed classification. I should like to ask you to have an objective discussion in the committees and to welcome your contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29302	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lap. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29323	Mr President. High house! The proposal before us is also covered by working groups which are already meeting in the ministry. In particular, the classification of children in the affected parents gives rise to discussions over and over again, namely that the classification of care allowances in children is not timely and, above all, not in line with the effort that disabled children need. I would like to add another point which you did not mention earlier: People with dementia should also be classified differently. There is also a working group on this. I think it is a matter of expanding the field of care and social security for disabled people and their families. We are working on it and are already looking forward to the discussions and the implementations.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29350	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29372	Mr President. High house! It is clear to us from the Austrian People's Party: Whoever needs help, they should also get it, also and especially in the areas of care and care. For me, for us care money is a priority: There must be improvements for dementia. These have a very special care needs, so you also need a higher care allowance. I would ask Mr Buchinger to take this step quickly. One more suggestion, ladies and gentlemen: Today, we have decided on flexible child money, a great success; Measures to improve the compatibility of family, children, occupation. If we use these experiences, we will also discuss a flexible care mix, a combination of self-employed, employed, mobile assistants, volunteers and family members, so that care and work can be more easily reconciled. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29399	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 1 minute remaining speaking time of their political group. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29422	Mr President. High house! We welcome this request for the Federal Care Fund, and we have already tabled the third point as an application. Mr Aubauer just said: Whoever needs help, let him get it. I think that's in all of our minds. We have filed an application for a right to care. I hope that you will remember these words, which you have said here now, when this request will be in the Committee on Social Affairs, and that you will also agree with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29453	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29474	Mr President. High house! The application here is concerned with a very important part of a sustainable care system, namely the care allowance and the classification. We have already made a number of requests from the BZÖ for an increase in the care allowance, which is urgently necessary and urgently necessary. However, we are also aware that a new classification is urgently needed in the area of dementia and also young people with disabilities. We are in favour of this proposal, and I am looking forward to the discussion in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29504	The next speaker is Mr Sebastian Eder. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29529	Mr President. High house! The present proposal and its explanatory statement include three issues which should be dealt with in detail in the Committee, as there are practical problems. The fact is: Disabled children need more time for care, more funding and more funding. The problem may not necessarily be solved by a legislative change, but perhaps by greater clarity in the implementing provisions. So Minister Buchinger would be required. The second part of the request seems to me to be unnecessary. The diagnostically fixed minimum classification is very practical from my point of view and from my experience as an expert. In the third part concerning dementia diseases, continuous supervision should simply be better assessed and not necessarily a minimum classification introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29562	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment 327/A to the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs. The agenda is exhausted. [[00:51:10]] Vote on a request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29597	We shall now proceed to the vote on a request for a deadline. This is the request of Members Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, to the Justice Committee for reporting on amendment 5/A by honourable Members Mag. Lunacek, colleagues in a federal law amending the General Civil Code, a period of until 4. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[00:51:42]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-10-17-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00035_d8e29637	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications were submitted 407/A to 445/A. In addition, questions 1644/J to 1663/J were raised. Finally, a question by Mrs Sonnberger, ladies and gentlemen, has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
