ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6766	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. ==References====External links== Meeting of 5. ==References====External links== Meeting of 6. In June 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained inconvenient and undisputed. The Members of Parliament, Dr Wittmann, Peter Haubner, Mandak, Lutz Weinzinger, are reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6803	For this meeting, the Federal Chancellery on the representation of members of the Federal Government made the following communication: Federal Chancellor Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer is appointed by Vice Chancellor Mag. Wilhelm Molterer. I also announce the representation of members of the Federal Government who are present in another Member State of the European Union as follows: The Federal Minister for Education, Arts and Culture Dr. Claudia Schmied is the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection Dr. Erwin Buchinger. [[09:05:20]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6857	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notice that the Deputies are Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter and Mag. Terezija Stoisits waived their mandate. Instead of deputies Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter was the member of the Claudia section and instead of Mag. Terezija Stoisitsder Deputies Mag. Albert Steinhauser appointed to the National Council. As the electorate is already present and the members of the House are present, I will immediately make their fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the scribe, the new ambassadors will have to do their fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now seeking the reading of the vow formula and the name call by Mr. Jakob Auerum.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6927	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.” On Name Call by the Writer Jacob The Members of Parliament are responsible for the execution and power of Claudia. Albert Steinhauser the Angelobung with the words “I praise”.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e6966	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] For the purposes of § 50 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Klubobmann Strache raised written objections to the agenda for today's sitting. The objections concern the decommissioning of points 6, 7 and 8 of today's agenda. I am not in favour of these objections, which is why the National Council has to decide. The debate on the objections will take place after the current hour. I announce that the ORF intends to carry out a live broadcast until the end of the objection debate. [[09:07:37]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7013	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Gypsies builder – the broken word applies: Government of the Social Cold and Tax Charges First of all, Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7046	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! It is already remarkable and apparently the new parliamentaryism, which SPÖ promises again and again, that for the first time at a current hour addressed to the Federal Chancellor, not only the Chancellor himself is not present, but also his representative, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, is not present and suddenly the third yarn – the Secretary of State – sits on the government bank. [[Call the SPÖ:Na, na, na!]] [[Abg. Riepl: There is a spelling error in there! On Taferl is a spelling mistake! “Become” you write small – and not big!]] That's something that's remarkable. You are always the ones who say that Parliament needs to be taken seriously. Parliament is obviously not taken seriously by this government, because the Federal Chancellor is in the Central American jungle at the hour, has a mission there. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Don't misunderstand this now: We press all the thumbs of the Austrian application for the Olympic Games, and I hope we get them. However, whether it was a good idea to send the unhappiness-rabe Gusenbauer there – so to speak as a mascot – you will only see in the evening when it is clear how this goes. I still wish you all the best for Austria and his application. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is about “gusenbauer – the broken word”. You see it in the front With Mr Kanzler Gusenbauer, there will be no Eurofighter. [[The speaker points to the said panel on the speaker's desk]] That was one of the central election promises – a week before the election he said that! And today it is clear that the Eurofighters will land in Austria. We need a government in Austria, for which the day before the election applies, which also applies after the election! In Austria, we do not need a German chancellor of broken promises, but in Austria we need a German chancellor who keeps his word! This is what Gusenbauer said before the last election. And he said that the next National Council election would give the voters the opportunity to distinguish between a government with Eurofighter and a government without a Eurofighter. Everyone can understand what that means. That is not the only promises made by casters. Let us remember, for example, that he has guaranteed that the tuition fees will be abolished, or the valorization of the care allowance – even to the caring people, he has said the untruth! Now the care money is not valorized, but de facto reduced, but for that the political salaries are increased. And Gusenbauer is a German chancellor who will earn more than 20 000 € for the first time. After the election, Gusenbauer promised a tax reform and said: 500 € per year discharge for everyone! This is, as it were, the new edition of the EU’s “Ederer-Tusender”. This has been promised by Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer to the people. – To this day, we don't see anything of that! Gusenbauer has made his own group promises – and has not kept them. He promised her that the SPÖ would put the Finance Minister, that the government would be smaller. – Well, where is the SPÖ Finance Minister? Everything didn't come in! Gusenbauer has promised that the transitional periods on the labour market in the European Union will not be lifted in advance. We now know that 800 East workers, skilled workers, will come to Austria, although we have 5 000 Austrian unemployed skilled workers in the country. Gusenbauer has promised that he will reduce VAT on medicines. We have made a request here because we have the most expensive medicines in Austria. Nothing happened! The SPÖ does not agree. The drugs are still expensive. Gusenbauer has made many other promises, for example, that there will be no flexibility of working time without full wage compensation. . In this session, we now have the debate and the request on the agenda. There will be a flexibility of working time. People will have to work more for less money. They owe this to your chancellor – and we strongly reject this, ladies and gentlemen, [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Gusenbauer has promised a health reform. – Where is this health reform? Gusenbauer said he was going to fight poverty. - Where is it? We still have 500 000 Austrians who live in poverty acutely. It was only yesterday that there was a new terrifying number: 113 000 children in Austria live in poverty. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Holy shit.]] Where is the fight against poverty of your Chancellor? – He promised everything and kept nothing! I have to say: Baron Münchhausen is a bunch of truth compared to your Federal Chancellor! You have to say that. You should actually use a saying: If Gusenbauer promises something, don't believe it, he'll break it! – And that will remain for him until the next election. He won't get away with that. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Gusenbauer is a head of government who likes to travel around Europe: Mr Barolo drinks a Barroso – or vice versa. He is a head of government who can be bought at the level of the European Union for cuff buttons – it is also interesting how embarrassing the Chancellor is in Europe. [[Abg. Pepper: You are embarrassing!]] “The mirror”, one of the world’s most renowned news magazines, reports on the last summit: Mr Gusenbauer and the German Foreign Minister Steinmeier sat there. To this end, the “Mirror” writes: “It was still easy in the morning.” – Namely the discussions. – "There Steinmeier sat opposite to the abusive chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer from Austria and recorded his covetous gaze at his wrists. Spontanously, the German opened its sparkling cuff buttons with the EU star logo and offered them as a gift.” It's wonderful! This is Mr Gusenbauer's EU performance platform: Exchange cuff buttons, then it is quiet again; drink a little wine. But this is not a governance, nor is it if we have a government in Austria that only argues, which does not go further than post-chachers, and where a minister of this government, Mr Matznetter, I am excited about what you say about it, your Social Minister Buchinger said: This government is squatting around! She's just suffocating, she's not gonna do anything. That is why we believe that it would be more correct and better before it is rescinded that this government resigns. That is why we are going to make a new request today, because we believe: Better end with horror than terror without end! This is also better for the Austrians, who constantly burden you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] The main promise of your Federal Chancellor was the social warmth. [[Abg. Faul: Westenthaler macht...!]] – I wonder: Where is this promised social warmth? Where is the social warmth for the commuters and for the hundreds of thousands of Austrian drivers who have been paying the most expensive petrol prices in the Republic of Austria since Sunday? In old currency, the litre of petrol costs more than 20 p. That's a modern way of walking, what you're doing! They burden people, especially those who need the car. The pendlers have to grab deep into the bag – you don't! I know. The government is not. The government can't look at the gas station. The drivers are drinking because if you were going to the gas station yourself, you could hear something from the people who are shuddering there – and rightly so – because they depend on the car. We also said: That can't be! Go down with VAT on petrol! Make a flexible VAT and guarantee a gasoline price of 1 € straight ahead so everyone can plan! This is a fair and affordable price. – You owe this to the Austrians too, ladies and gentlemen of the Government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] But not just that. They have increased fees and charges – the health insurance contributions, for example – and, as I have already said, reduced the care allowance. This is “social warmth ”? They have plunged people into a new poverty trap with €5,000 capital cap. You cannot have more, because otherwise you will not receive any care allowance in this country and no social benefits. This is obviously the SPÖ's policy! [[Abg. May. Lap: That's not true!]] I can read you a letter that a 23-year-old heavy-duty wheelchair driver wrote to me. That's what it says: As a self-employed person, the question arises as to how I think – I would like to give you the name – to build a existence for 23 years, or perhaps even to start a family once, if I have already taken the basis of my existence before, and then I do not even stay there again to finance my care or everyday life. - Quote. He's worried. He's sitting in the wheelchair at the age of 23, and you tell him he can't have more than €5,000 all his life, otherwise he won't get any care money. – This is a scandal, a real social scandal in this Republic, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. May. Lap: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Ow! Untruth!]] The wages are the same. They decide on a minimum wage. That's what I'm saying. 1 000 €! – That sounds good, but you don’t say that the €1,000 is gross and that people get only €818 net. You know what that means: 818 € for full-time work compared to 726 € Minimum guarantee? – You are only worth more than 92 € – 92 € and no more! That is why we say: This too is not socially balanced. We want more net of gross for people in a country where there is an economic upturn, where there is a thriving economy. This would have earned people: higher wages and not less income, through the bank! To ensure that this is the task of this government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You'll take the money away when you're kids' money. The cancellation protection for apprentices is loosened. Professional workers are imported. [[Call at the SPÖ: It can't even read!]] Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! They are a real “step government”, you have to say. A “step government” in the truest sense of the word, for: First, the government has taken action to solve the country's major problems. Then you stepped on the feet of the Austrians with loads and tax increases. Then you have always stepped into the shin every day to the present day. Then you're completely out of step. And now we're of the opinion: You should be better off! That would be a logical consequence. And that's why we say: A new election request is necessary! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You from the government had your chance. They beat her up. Deliver the land from the standstill, from the red-black post chess and also from the battles! There will be nothing to do with the committees either. Give the Austrians the opportunity to choose a new government and send you to the desert! I think that would be the right and fair way in the sense of democracy in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7321	Mr Dr. Matznetter, President-in-Office of the Council, spoke for an introductory opinion. I would draw his attention to the fact that his speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7342	Madam President. High house! I would just like to apologize to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic for today. He is not in the jungle, but in Guatemala City, where today at 23.32 a.m. our local time decides who will host the 2014 Winter Olympics. This is a good topic where we can deal with the question of whether or not action is being taken and how to act. Number one: When the scandal with the found blood canned appeared in Turin, a BZÖ State Secretary did nothing. Thus, the chances of Salzburg, the chances of Austria, have become very low. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We will see tonight!]] What does the new Federal Government do? – She decides here – and thanks also to the ladies and gentlemen in the house – a sharp anti-doping legislation. This makes Salzburg's chances upright again. Thank you in this case to this House! We follow the commandment: Take action instead of waiting! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Why aren't you there?]] The Federal Chancellor strives to maintain the opportunities until the last minute, because of this disadvantage that has arisen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He'd rather work!]] For the Russian Federation, President Putin himself went to Guatemala to fight for this application. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He doesn't have such a government as the Gusenbauer!]] We want the 2014 Winter Games to be organized by Austria. We are the country that has the best conditions for this. Salzburg is the city and the country that has the best conditions for the 2014 Winter Games. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] I would like to comment on the points raised as follows: Part one: Study fees. – I can remind you that in this country under Chancellor Kreisky the tuition fees have been abolished – for very good reason! Then: Education must be promoted, and people wishing to acquire a university education should have access to it as accessible as possible. It was a government with the participation of the BZÖ, which introduced the study fees. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: And now they still exist! You wanted to get rid of her!]] We have fought in the government negotiations for the abolition of tuition fees. And this federal government has a compromise in its government programme, which is: Facilitation for students – I recall the improvements already decided on in the field of student funding – second, the possibility in the case of voluntary educational engagements that the tuition fees may not be paid. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: On the question of care. . I should like to remind you that the state of emergency, which has become very obvious at the end of the last term of government, was immediately addressed by the Federal Government. The two competent Federal ministers Bartenstein and Buchinger have submitted the relevant documents to this House that it is legal care also at home from 1. July, since yesterday, in this country. And this federal government, because the countries did not feel able to provide the necessary grants, took over by the end of this year all the grants for those who use the care of these care models, starting at care level 3 with €825 in the employment case and, if I have it properly in mind, €225 in the case of self-employed. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Not from care level 3, from care level 5!]] This Federal Government is acting. It implements things, and it ensures that legal conditions exist in that country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On tax reform. – It is already surprising if a party representative, who was a government party in the last government, highlights the need for a repair of the tax reform that was just taken place in 2005. You are right, honourable Member, there is no relief from the middle class, there is no relief from workers, there are no improvements for SMEs. Yes! That is what this Federal Government is doing, but we have reached a compromise, which reads as follows: No counter-financing! That is, the ÖVP wants – and we have accepted this – no change in the tax base for those who have received significant benefits, in particular international corporations. We will therefore work together on the basis of this discharge. In other words, we will achieve a surplus in the budget by 2010 and in 2010 we will take this necessary measure, which is exactly the income of up to €4,000 in order to relieve SMEs. And we will have to repair things that have only been there since you – or your party – have been involved, such as a 38.33 percent limit rate for people with 1 130 € gross, to the first 100 € more. That's what we're gonna do. At this point I would like to point out that the action of this government is clearly visible in the fullness of the completed points. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How many points?]] We raised the minimum pensions to 726 €. This is an active contribution to the fight against poverty. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that was the old government!]] No, I can help the Westenthaler Member again: Look at the Stenographical Protocol of this House! It is the XXIII. legislative period and not the XXII. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But the old government has prepared this!]] We are coming to the next point in the fight against poverty. We act for the first time. The minimum wage is raised to € 1 000 – agreement by the social partners only these days – in other words, in international comparison, Mr Deputies, that Austria takes into account the 13th and 14ths. Wage payment – something that only exists with us – has an average of €167 minimum wage in the month. We are therefore among the top seven countries in Europe. As Luxembourg has an amount of €1500, France and Belgium have such an amount of €1 259. We had zero so far, even behind Bulgaria with €92. We have thus taken a decisive step forward for thousands of people in this country. I congratulate both social partners who have demonstrated that they have taken such a step in the sense of justice and poverty prevention. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are implementing – I can remind you at this point – the training guarantee, the radical fight against unemployment through an infrastructure package of € 11.5 billion. After seven years of deterioration in the social situation, we are continuously implementing improvements: Covering the prescription fees, halving the pension payments that you have decided to make. All people who have worked for 45 or 40 years will fall into the so-called hackler regime during this legislative period. Instead of counting calories, just pension for everyone! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We are implementing, and it is already noticeable: Growth has increased significantly, unemployment is falling. This is a successful Federal Government under Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer! – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7530	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Mr Csörgits. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7554	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This current hour is a good opportunity to remember what the BZÖ did when it was in government responsibility and put the Social Minister and the Finance Minister in place. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You could take an example!]] Between 2000 and 2005, unemployment in Austria increased by 35 percent, and youth unemployment increased by even 70 percent. The number of full-time jobs has fallen, and more and more people have been able to find their way out with atypical employment. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: How was BAWAG?]] What does the new Federal Government do? – Among other things, we have provided €285 million for an active labour market policy. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Now we know why you've been selected at the union: because you're making such a nonsense!]] We have provided more money for research, education and infrastructure. This great coalition has called for youth unemployment to fight. We want to halve youth unemployment together, because young people in Austria need a future, and we have created, among other things, the training guarantee, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The number of women working part-time has increased considerably during your government contribution; the acceptance of part-time employment has not always been voluntary. Today, under the Working Time Act, we decide for the first time to grant part-time workers a supplement. Women will benefit from this, and at the same time it is a protection mechanism so that full-time jobs are no longer converted into part-time jobs. What have you done against black jobs, against black jobs? – You only carried out a test run in a federal state in an industry. We, the new Federal Government, are fighting black work. Obligatory registration will undoubtedly create more justice before the start of work. More than 1 million people have been exposed to poverty by their policies. On the one hand, the bad labour market policy – I mentioned it – is the reason for this, but on the other hand also your pension reduction programmes. And if people hadn't gone to the street, you'd have shortened even more. The pensioners were clearly on the loser's side with you. Between 2000 and 2005 you have only upgraded pensions below the inflation rate. And what does the great coalition of German chancellor Gusenbauer do? – Pensions were usually upgraded at the beginning of 2007 above the inflation rate, and we raised the minimum pension to €726. – That, ladies and gentlemen, is active poverty prevention! And we have also achieved an extension of the provisions on long-term insurance, as well as a reduction in deductions. Rot-Schwarz has been known to better assess child rearing times in the pension, and also retroactively. Many women will benefit from this and reach a higher pension. On Monday, the social partners announced that they agreed to impose a minimum wage of €1,000 for all full-time workers. Tens of thousands of workers will benefit from this. – This is, in turn, an important point, which is included in the Government Convention and is thus realized. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What have you done?– For example, they increased the contributions to health insurance for pensioners by 1 percent. They have introduced a leisure accident insurance scheme for all, but without consideration. You have introduced an ambulance fee in your time of government that has burdened the sick, but then God has been removed from the Constitutional Court. You have removed the grant for the visual remedies and increased the prescription fee by 40 percent – I can remember you. We create a cover for the recipe fees of 2 percent based on the net wage. And you didn't do anything for those people in need of care. We have made good approaches together with Buchinger and Bartenstein. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to remind you that you have, until the very end, pursued an infarction policy that is undoubtedly unprecedented. You've created posts just to accommodate your confidants. I'm thinking about the GesmbH families. To add up more points would jump this frame, but people should know that you were always the most important yourself. But now it's over! We have taken action to correct your social errors. We stand for a social, equal and just policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7636	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7658	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Since this current hour is not directly dedicated to the ÖVP today, I would like to take the opportunity to say a few basic things about the discussion of the last few weeks, including the issue of Eurofighter. I would like to tell you about a very touching conversation with an older fellow citizen in the General Secretariat about ten days ago, who experienced the Second World War, who was a man of the first hour in the ÖVP, who presented me with the ÖVP basic programme of June 1945 and who encouraged us to adopt a clear attitude here, a clear line on airspace surveillance issues. He told me that at the time there was only one goal: To make Austria a free, independent, sovereign country again! – Mr Strache, I will come to you. [[Abg. Strache: That's why you gave up sovereignty with the EU Constitution without referendum!]] Why, ladies and gentlemen, do I tell you that? – Because we have made our decisions exactly in this tradition, because we have developed two very central values for ourselves from this situation at the time. The first value is: People's protection and safety are a priority. The second value is the defence of the sovereignty of our country. And these values, ladies and gentlemen, are not available to us! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would therefore like to thank Wolfgang Schüssel and Willi Molterer very much for this hour, which both of them have not been concerned about the subject of airspace surveillance and the re-introduction of aircraft, but who have acted precisely in the sense of these two values, namely to secure the airspace and to organize and provide the best protection for our fellow citizens, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For five years now, we have had this issue. For five years we have been discussing the Eurofighter. We have conducted two national elections, we have four audited audits behind us, we have a committee of inquiry behind us, we have a lot of party policy tactics behind us, a lot of polemics. I can still remember that this House has been told: What do we need airspace surveillance for, we're surrounded by peaceful neighbors anyway? Estimated Ladies and gentlemen, this statement alone scares me, because I believe that this is not the case with a healthy understanding of a sovereign state. What's the result? – The result after five years is: The ÖVP has a flower-white vest, and this contract is valid, ladies and gentlemen. [[lively ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens and the FPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: It wasn't bad!]] Mr Oellinger, the Greens have taken a particularly strange attitude on this whole question. It was precisely what we feared from the outset at the Committee of Inquiry that this would be a party-political spectacle by Mr Pilz. This is no longer a good thing for the population, and it is good that this Committee of Inquiry has been put to a close. [[Abg. Oils: At the ÖVP!]] A word to Mr Strache, because he made an intermediate call earlier. [[Abg. Street: You give up sovereignty!]] Mr. Strache, I'll tell you one thing: You resigned as a Home and Security Party! [[Abg. Street: On the contrary!]] You have a strange parallel between a large mouth and a soft knee when it comes to taking responsibility, Mr Strache. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: We'll talk about it then!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is worth keeping line – I say it very openly – even though it takes years. It is worth keeping line, it is worth keeping course, and it is worth keeping those promises that we have given to people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7798	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7819	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Westenthaler, I say quite honestly to you: I did not come out here to continue the debate with you on cuff buttons, wine drinking, the performances at European level or where you suspect the jungle. You know, Mr Westenthaler, some people have the jungle in their heads – and that is much worse! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as SPÖ.]] Your problem – and that of BZÖ – is obviously just one: that where you like to fall is already the SPÖ. That irritates you and that upsets you! The problem of the EIA in turn – and this is a serious problem, Mr Missethon – is the problem that you think is just what you yourself have decided. And this will be a problem in Austria for democracy: that you do not think any other decision that is being taken here in this House, no matter whether the establishment of an investigation committee, no matter what, and that you decide by all means, provided that they are made in rare minutes without the EIA, immediately try to find out that you are immediately trying to disregard what has been decided by a majority in Parliament, de facto. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Democratic, ladies and gentlemen, the ÖVP has a problem very slowly, Mr Obmann Schüssel. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: You have a problem with majority!]] However, I am not here to make a bill for the last months, although it would be exciting, because the balance of this coalition in these six months, in which it reigns in Austria, is pitiful, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Let's call the problems! First example: Childcare. – Where are the solutions of the Federal Government? Second example: School. – Where are the solutions of this federal government? When and where is something going in the direction of schooling, Mr. Obmann Schüssel? We would like the ÖVP to move on this issue in the interests of children and young people in this country, once in favour of children and young people, because everyone understands that all people in Austria need to do something here, regardless of whether it is about full-time care in schools or whether it is about improving training opportunities, about easier transitions, about promoting disadvantaged people, but also about promoting high-skillers in school. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] Where are the offers, where is the willingness of a government party like the ÖVP to finally change itself? – Nothing we have noticed in the last half year! And that's sad enough. Let us take another example, ladies and gentlemen, Six days of land have now voted for a right to stay for those people who have sought asylum in Austria who have lived with us for a long time. Whole communities, including ÖVP municipalities, also communities with ÖVP mayors, but of course also with SPÖ mayors – and since party colours really do not matter – are committed to ensuring that people who are fully integrated and who are threatened with deportation can stay here. Who's walling? – The ÖVP! And it is as the ÖVP clearly wants, namely that nothing is happening, Mr Missethon, your only difference to the FPÖ is obvious that you have made a firm determination that you are at least as walled to the right as the FPÖ! But that will not be enough for the future, Mr Missethon. That's not a concept. And if SPÖ is involved in this policy, that is the responsibility of SPÖ, as is the issue of Eurofighter and Banking Investigation Committee. But, ladies and gentlemen, for what we need in this country – and I take another example; and there we need another policy, not only on matters, but also on very fundamental issues – that is, for what we need in Austria, it is too little. For example, care; a hot topic. I'll tell you: Even if individual points in what you propose are an improvement as long as you do not address the question of a better distribution and a different distribution between the poor and the rich in this country and ask yourself the question of what, instead of the inheritance tax and the gift tax you want to abolish now, will still come to get a contribution from the rich, so long are you in the responsibility for this country! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]] And as long as you don't do anything...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7889	Your speaking time is over. [[I would like to congratulate the Greens for the Abg, which leaves the speaker's desk. Oils.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Strache. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e7919	Ladies and gentlemen! I find this present hour amusing in that the present hour offers a mirror image also in the direction of Mr Westenthal, Mr Scheibner and Mr Haider, because you have lived before exactly what you rightly blamed the SPÖ here today. Between 2000 and 2006 She lived to be a willless attachment, a willless crasher of the nation, a purely climbing sticker for the ÖVP. Just as you, unfortunately, are right that the SPÖ has replaced you on this issue. I'll give you that. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] At the time, you were wondering whether it was the case in the case of immigration, where we had to experience 300 000 additional immigrants in Austria, you have been in the social field of accident pension taxation, you have at the time entered a European Union constitution with Hurra, without Austrian referendum, you have given a Hurra scream at Easter enlargement towards Romania, Bulgaria, and your Mr. Haider would like to welcome Turkey to the European Union even today. All of this is enough for the Austrians because they have finally realized that you have dizzyed the Austrians from the front to the back. That's why you're not a credible partner. But now to social democracy. Social democracy has proved similar. There, Mr Alfred Gusenbauer was launched as Chancellor as a so-called social fighter. And that's where you're wondering: What happened to the social fighter? I mean, the Social Fighter, after he started and joined as a social fighter, gave a great breaking landing for the best. A great breaking landing has become out of it. At the German Chancellor Gusenbauer, who has explained to the Austrians that he already had a dream in the sand box, namely the dream of becoming a German chancellor, and who has finally fulfilled this dream, one must already ask the question: Did he play in the sand box at the age of three and already dreamt of the Federal Chancellery, or is it that he played in the sand box at the age of 13? At the age of three, a young child usually has no idea of the future professional desire. But he turned sand into the eyes of the Austrians, he made promises he didn't keep. This has brought Thomas Jefferson, the author of the American Declaration of Independence, very well to the point and said – I quote –: The whole government is made up of art to be honest! And when we look at Mr. Chancellor Gusenbauer, we cannot see honesty. ==References====External links== In September of the previous year in the ORF “Abendjournal”, he wanted to get out of the Eurofighter Treaty, regardless of what it costs. In the radio “Abendjournal” Gusenbauer said: Either we come out without a ponale payment or with a ponale payment. Everything costs much less, he said. – On the question of whether there would certainly not be in a government with Gusenbauer Eurofighter, he said: That's it. I mean, all of this still reminds people. And now you've not only fallen by, but I think you can't fall by, because you're so deeply buried today and busy with being serving the ÖVP. It has not changed since the 1st century. October. It continues to govern the Austrian People's Party in this country. They have proved, on all these questions, that they have unfortunately not changed God. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have the same experience with the tuition fees. 29. August last year, ORF Summer Talks. Gusenbauer means – I quote –: Should I become chancellors, of course I would abolish the tuition fees! Nothing like that has happened! ==References== In December, during the coalition negotiations, the APA reports: SPÖ President and future Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer wants to start government work at the beginning of government work! – enforce a tax reform to relieve citizens. No more such, nothing more about the tax reform, but only in 2010. There are other loads up to that point. 6 cents per litre for mineral oil tax. The farmers are now given 3 cents more per litre, but at the same time they are taken away at the mineral oil tax 6 cents. That is exactly this dishonest policy, where you have failed everywhere and which people are satisfied. But a few words about the Austrian People's Party, to the Secretary-General, Missethon. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Final sentence: So sovereignty and neutrality, Mr Missethon, have sacrificed the Austrian People's Party of the European Union without making a referendum possible. am. They are no longer a home or a security party today, and the Austrians have recognized that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8032	The next item is the speech by Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8054	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It is already funny that Mr. Strache and Mr. Ollinger are now so motivating about the great coalition. That was the wish coalition of both of you. [[Abg. We were realists!]] You wanted the great coalition. These are now the fruits of your political line. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] And that you have forgotten the five years in which you have intervened, even in the government, we already know that. But it's supposed to be. Much more important is one thing to observe here: You don't have to listen to what Mr Matznetter said here at this current hour or Mrs Csörgits, who also forgets that she is responsible for the biggest financial disaster in the history of the Second Republic – 4 billion damage to BAWAG and ÖGB – but rather what is happening behind the scenes here. I don't know if that caught the TV cameras. Mr Matznetter has actually done too much olympic work here, namely running back and forth from one side to the other. Now Matznetter goes back in the other direction, because there was the ÖVP first. Something's been intervened and disputed. Then he ran over there: There's the SPÖ. And then there has been intervened and disputed. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: The colleague stupid...!]] Nice, now you have taken place again, because colleague stupid now has gone from one side to the other to save my colleague Matznetter the eternal running. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Matznetter, there is no need to say any more about the state of this federal government. For a government that even here in Parliament – as I hear it, it is about personnel discussions in the National Bank – personnel disputes and not thinking about how to better govern the country, how to do something for people, one can really say one thing with Peter Westenthaler: Re-election request! Free us from this disgrace, from these problems and from this burden of such a government! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Matznetter, it has always been a financial speaker who said: A tax reform, a tax relief immediately after the election! The Federal Chancellor has also attached this to his flags. - And what are you doing? You promise a tax reduction for 2009 or 2010, where you know that this government will no longer be in office! But now you're putting the citizens in a big bag: For a few days now, we have been taking up a mineral oil tax increase – Mr Matznetter, you are a tax increase - state Secretary, but not one for tax reductions! – which is massively burdened by every Austrian and every Austrian, especially the commuters, without making any social disunity, Mr Matznetter. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: Pendlerpauschale...!]] And what the health reform is about: I can still remember that my colleague Cap, who has just slowly recovered from these staff disputes, has always said: Bum!, Bum!, and accused us of falling down. That was a tactic of all the results of the negotiations. And if we got out of five points in four, it was also a crasher for him. Mr Cap, I know you have to hold on now, because what would be a ‘bum!’, where you have fallen into many things in the few days that you are in office alone; I only mention some of them: Pension reform, tax reform, health reform, ressort distribution, power situations, staff discussions and, ultimately, airspace monitoring. It is always so nice to discuss with my colleague Cap – of course it is nice, because you can really learn something from communication talent – but more – you know that, I always say – for your own party events, because there you still believe it. [[Demonstrative consent of the Abg. Dr. Cap]] The population sees this, of course, because if you say for years that you don't need a interception hunter, because there is no threat anymore – and then these evil fighters are suddenly “neutrality pilots” in order to prevent a neutrality case that is no longer available, as Mr Cap and the SPÖ have said, namely a military attack from our peaceful neighbouring countries! [[Sadness at the BZÖ]] But here you do everything you can to cover these invaders, because you simply don't want to admit that you told the people the untruth, before the election you promised everything possible, knowing that you can't keep it. And now you try all the means, with all the rhetorical fins, to cast that. – The population, ladies and gentlemen in particular, of the SPÖ, sees this very carefully. This could be a joy for us as an opposition – no question, because a government of Gusenbauer II will no longer be there – but we are not pleased. We are not pleased because we have in seven years a consistent reform policy for you of a positive, a good, dynamic government leaving a good legacy of rising economic data, falling unemployment, structural reforms that have been implemented! [[Congratulations with BZÖ and ÖVP]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And you manage it! They manage this at the expense of the Austrians – only so that Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer can fulfill his sandbox dreams!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8172	Next, Mr Krainer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8222	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! If we start with what Mr Westenthaler has started with the question of Eurofighter, then the question arises: What to accuse Alfred Gusenbauer? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at BZÖ.]] It is to him that he did not think it possible for the old government to negotiate such a bad contract, that even indirect bribery is not enough to break the contract! [[Subsequent calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] And the committee has proved that! He has proved indirect bribery of decision-makers. Only, the contract that these parties negotiated was so bad that it was not a reason for departure. You can blame him. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: That's why you decided one and a half pages of the report together!]] To believe that the old government cannot make up such bad contracts – there we have been instructed to a better one. The question is: What do you do about this situation? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Cover! Turn around!]] And what he did together with the Minister of Defence is that we save €5.5 billion – 5.5 billion schilling, that is, €400 million! [[Abg. Dr. Schussel: 5.5 billion euros?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Can it be that it is Lire?]] [[Subsequent calls at BZÖ and FPÖ.]] Do you know how much that is? – This is just as much as the old 24 Dragons have cost. This is exactly the same amount, and we have at least been able to save it. This money can be spent much more meaningfully than for unnecessary combat bombarders! [[Abg. Strache: Now the fighter bombs are landing! The SPÖ fighter bombs are landing!]] On the issue of the increase in mineral oil tax: Yes, the mineral oil tax has been increased – for several reasons. First: In order to finance infrastructure investments that the old government may have promised but never financed. The difference is that we can also finance these now, also with the help of this most increase. Secondly, it will finance a change in the field of environmental policy, in the field of climate policy. It is no longer just talking about it, and it is important, but it is financed by climate policy, namely €500 million for the Climate Fund. Thirdly – and this is what you have completely misrepresented, Mr Scheibner –: There's a social suspension. I know that doesn't happen in your language treasure, it doesn't happen in your experience when you were still in the government yourself. But this is the difference to the current government: that it is very likely to pay attention to precise social balance and to social compensation. That's why an increase of 10 per cent in the same step, and - something you were completely unknown to - for all those who deserve particularly little, by almost doubling the negative tax, a social suspension of €90 per year. That's the difference! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As far as tax reform is concerned, it is always a question of when you do it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You promised!]] And it would be absolutely crazy to make a tax reform in a high economy! This is done at a time when the economy is going downhill to give impetus. That's what we're gonna do, and that's what we're preparing. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Under this government is going downhill?]] And it will be essential what content this tax reform has. And the discussion that is currently taking place – in the government programme this is also clearly determined –: It is intended to relieve small and medium-sized incomes, exactly those incomes that had nothing from the last – from your – tax reform. And that's where the focus should be. Yes, there's a discussion, because now our coalition partner thinks it's the most important thing to lower the top tax rate. I believe that this has little to do with reducing small and medium-sized incomes, but it is only a discharge of top incomes. For us, the focus – and this is also agreed in the government programme – is the relief of small and medium-sized incomes and also the question of bringing more justice into our tax system, because there is a huge lack of them. That's what all experts, all economic experts, say, whether blue, black or red – orange economic experts are not there, we know that anyway – but it doesn't matter, everyone says: More tax justice is needed. This will, of course, mean tough negotiations with the EIA because it has different priorities here. On the question of what has been done in the social field, the answer is relatively simple. We just need to remember what happened in these few months: The minimum pensions have been increased by a record value that you have not even cumulatively collected in seven years. The minimum wage of €1,000 will now be implemented in two steps – something you also had in your old government program, but never did. This will be done in a few months' time! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8385	Next, Mr Wöginger. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8406	Madam President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour deals with two topics: On the one hand, “cast builder – the broken word”...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8421	Mr Wöginger, one second. I would ask the honourable Members to remove themselves from the government bank. Please, honourable Member, you are speaking again.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8437	Gusenbauer – this applies to the broken word. – That’s not the subject I’m going to talk to. This is more true of the SPÖ, because we have promised nothing that we have not considered. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] I would rather comment on the second topic: Government of the social cold and tax burden. And here it is important to me as ÖVP delegates to point out that this government can build on the successful years. It has been made a good, right and important policy in the last legislative period, and that is to be pointed out. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This policy makes it possible for the current coalition to build up and continue this success path. This must also be mentioned at this point. It confirms to us the economic and labour market data that we are on the right track. We have an unemployment rate of 5.2 per cent, which is 4.4 per cent according to Eurostat, in the fourth place in the European Union – not only since January of this year, ladies and gentlemen, but we have been falling unemployment figures for 16 months. This confirms that the labour market packages, that everything decided in the previous government and here in Parliament, were perfectly correct and in the sense of the workers in that country. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] We have 20 000 unemployed less compared to the previous year. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: Now!]] We have a high level of employees: 3 366,000 workers and 63 000 jobs were created. [[Abg. Street: McJobs, part-time jobs where you need four to be able to live! 56 000 Austrians are in re-training programmes!]] – Mr Strache, why are you so upset? [[Abg. Strache: These are the tricks! 56,000 people in re-training programmes!]] You did not want to go to the government, you have refused to take over government responsibility in that country! So you don't have to be so upset today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Street: 56,000 people have simply been taken out of statistics!]] We have a decline in both young people and older people, and this is particularly important. We offer young people a future, a perspective. We ensure that young people get either a job or a training place in a school. These are the important points to which we accept! In five federal states, ladies and gentlemen, there is de facto full employment. I may mention Upper Austria, my homeland: 2.6% unemployment rate, we have de facto full employment, but we will also take care of those who do not yet have a job, because that is our job. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] Of these five federal states, four are randomly governed by the EIA; they have the lowest unemployment rate. [[New congratulations to the ÖVP.]] Five districts in Upper Austria are among the ten best districts! These are the issues to be addressed in this context. We also have an economic growth of 3.2 percent, and this upturn means prosperity for all. That must be mentioned. The measures of recent years are taking place, and the ÖVP is and continues to guarantee this positive development in Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But a few comments on the “social cold ” and on tax burdens. – That’s just not true! We have implemented a double budget for 2007 and 2008 in a record time, and we can only congratulate our Minister for Finance Molterer warmly. We have made important changes in the pension area, the ASVG sector, the long-term insurance scheme – 45 years are enough – and there are improvements in the corridor board, an upgrading of child rearing times – that is an important issue for us by the ÖVP! – the Novelle Working Time Act – plus 25 percent for part-time workers, 1 000 € minimum wage, the social partners are suitable – and the shuttle fee has already been increased. It is also worth mentioning the democratic package, voting with 16. This is important to us, but equally important was the introduction of the choice of letters, something that is natural in other countries. In Germany, 20 percent choose by letter. The voters thus become more flexible. You can't just say: Nothing has happened in this government and in this Parliament. That's not true, and I won't let that go. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would like to stress two points, along with the many others in the programme: tax reform and employee participation. The ÖVP will accept these challenges and also solve them. We are the guarantee that a good policy will be made in the interests of people in this country!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8565	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Honey. Five minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8587	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! “Government of the Social Cold” – I can’t help but notice that I find it more than strange that the BZÖ, the Haider Party, speaks of “social cold” in this government, the Haider Party, which we owe to the “social-smarot” debate over the last decade. They have helped in the deterioration of pensions, the introduction of self-employment, study fees, the taxation of accident pensions. - And you're talking about social cold?- Oh, my God! That's weird, I can only say. But, well, we're now dealing with the new government. On the one hand, this consists of the ÖVP, an ÖVP, by which Gerfried Sperl writes in his last comment as editor-in-chief of the “Standard”: “Unfortunately, the People’s Party does not openly say that a former Christian-oriented party has become a neoliberal.” [[Abg. Strache: That's it: with Christian-social nothing more on the hat!]] Yes. That's it. The ÖVP makes a neoliberal policy. Minimizing the state's role in maximising freedom, freedom especially for the rich and the wealthy, because the great rest is above all free of support, free from good public education system, free from public health systems and free from fair wages. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This is the new ÖVP: for a long time not more Christian, but neoliberal. And if you're talking about social cold, I have to say, I'd rather see permafrost at the ÖVP. Yes, and then there is the SPÖ in this government, the SPÖ, the Austrians until the election of 3. It has promised “more fairness” in this country. – Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Is it fair to wipe out the property and gift tax and keep the tuition fees? Is it fair what you want to sell us as a minimum guarantee: no concept, no financing, no implementation plan? Is it fair to people who would need it most urgently? Is that fair? Minimum wage. – Minimum wage of 1 000 €, you say. 820 € are only in the wallet, 820 € for a full-time job. And I'll tell you: In Salzburg, where I come from, I don't get an apartment under 350 €. At least 100 € I have other fixed costs: Electricity, heating, telephone et cetera. That means I stay at a maximum of €400 a month from your glorious minimum wage of €820! 400 € divided by 30 days, that is 12 € a day – for food, for medicines, possibly for a broken washing machine, an iron et cetera. 12 € a day for full-time work! Is that fair? – That’s not fair, that’s unfair and that’s too little for us! Unfortunately, I still have many current examples. 100 000 people on the rainbow parade last Saturday: These people are still waiting for your promised equality of gender relations. Is it fair to these people? The Working Time Act – also very up-to-date –: It may be 60 hours in the future! Is that fair? And as far as care is concerned: Care regulations, home care law, the conditions for caregivers? – Miese payment, my conditions! That's not fair at all! Wealth utilization up to €5,000 for the old people to be cared for! Fair would be a property tax which would cover a certain fixed amount of care. That would be fair, that would be solid! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] ‘New fairness needs the country’. – I say: Yes, we need that, but we still need it now, even though you promised us, still, almost a year after this election. It urgently needs more fairness! Do something for it, please do more for it, please do it soon – not for us, not for the Greens, but for the people who expect it and whom you have promised! Please ensure more fairness! We Greens are sure to be there. We're sure we're in!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8671	The next item is the speech by Mrs Rosenkranz. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8693	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! It is not surprising what has been offered so far. The ÖVP refers to the successes of its reign over the last six years. But they've been in the government for 20 years! The SPÖ recalls that, as Mrs Csörgits has said, she has taken action to correct the social errors. – This sounds a bit like an election campaign that has been held in the legislative period for a long time. What has really happened so far? – You have agreed on a care solution, but it is not at all funded! It's not funded at all. The really tough negotiations with the national leaders – by the way they were not so hard on basic provision for asylum seekers – are still under way. You have now put in view 1 000 € minimum wage for all; or, if you are honest, it is almost everyone at most. But that can be – and that has already been said – a maximum of a first step. This means that you actually have 820 € in the wallet, and that is only 100 € more than the unemployed basic income. But what does the situation look like in general and, at all, over a slightly longer period of time? What is the situation of workers? – In the last 15 years – and up to the last six years, you have always been there, you have always been leading at all – the purchasing power of the lower income five has fallen by 17 percent. What people complain about at the main table, that they can't afford anything more, is confirmed by WIFO, and you can read it in the APA. The lower fifth has 17 percent less purchasing power. At the same time, managers’ incomes – and this, of course, rightly generates great frustration from the employee – have increased enormously. The fact is – and the employee also observes this – that: Prosperity is a dream that can no longer be realized with honest work, and I would like to stress here that not only highly educated but also simple work has a value. With this in mind, this is a devastating result! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to the people who have little bread for hard work, however, there are others who are all the more regrettable, namely those who have to persist in the atypical employment conditions. What is – in short – an atypical working relationship? In the case of such an employment relationship, there is only more money for actual work. Risks such as illness and unemployment are no longer insured. In such cases, the general public – I am now saying what it is – enters into a kind of poor care. Do you know what that is? – This is the resurgence of the daily wage! That is exactly the principle of the wage earner! No wonder it's a little cheaper! This is not a solution, however, neither for workers nor for successful economic development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In addition to the Taglohner, the so-called migrant worker experiences a renaissance. This term, which is now really on the economic side, means that workers – for which they cannot be accused – benefit from the wage and prosperity gap between countries: They work in a better developed country under very modest conditions and with very modest demands and periods of life somehow to save mainly and build up a existence at home. This has two enormous disadvantages: First of all, these people are missing in their own country. There come even poorer migrant workers. You know that from Poland, which has gone to Britain, and in Poland the Ukrainians are now entering. There are then no experts, and there are also recovery actions. Secondly, the wage level in the target country is permanently damaged and destroyed. – These are the atypical employment conditions – vulgo: Day wages – and the conditions under which so-called migrant workers live. And you, as social democrats, must be accused of allowing such a new underlay! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] You will find a bit ashamed of this, such as “far - off layers, ” “precariat ” or the like. Tell me what it is! The development that we have a lower layer again falls into your time! It wasn't like that before, and it shouldn't be like that. Meanwhile, managers' salaries compete with those in America – and you allow your euphoria to open the market and for any kind of immigration that employees' incomes must compete with those in China! That can't work! By the way, a new opening is under way again. The Buchinger brothers have already announced that we now have to be flexible with regard to East skilled workers, and metal director Foglar has already found that he is not an illusionist and will not cross over there. I'll tell you: It is not about illusions, but about concepts, political goals and the ideals behind them. You don't have all that. They will not solve the social question in this way. We'll need other people for that!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8772	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8793	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The holiday period is beginning gradually, and I should like to invite all the ladies and gentlemen and, above all, Mrs Colleague of the Greens, who spoke earlier, to visit the tourist country of Carinthia once in the summer months, to listen and look around, especially with regard to the social policy of our head of state, and to find out how exemplary Carinthia takes social policy seriously and thus constitutes a counter-model to the current Federal Government! [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, I would like to explain this to you. We have introduced a baby premium, a free kindergarten year, a school start fee and the mother's board in Carinthia under the head of state Jörg Haider. In all stages of life, there is a social security. This is the absolutely effective, honest and responsible counter-model of this federal government, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In the course of this current hour, however, it is also a bit about the importance of politics as a whole. We are concerned with the reputation and reputation of our profession, which we have to devote ourselves to and which we have to take seriously. And if we make unresponsive promises in the course of elections and misinformed the population, this is also due to the fact that we take political agitation and responsibility too little seriously. We see this on the example of the SPÖ: They have promised a lot in recent years, but now they have not kept anything in the government. This is a fact which is not only regarded as a damage to SPÖ, but is not a good thing for us as a political sense. That is why I also call on SPÖ to take more care of it in the future and to put honesty at the forefront of the considerations. “Lying” cannot be said here in Parliament, but it is at least a ban on the truth when Chancellor Gusenbauer speaks so positively about Austria abroad. It wasn't always like that. We have also experienced times when he has champagneized abroad and talked badly about our country! But if you use the tax reform abroad to leave Austria in good shape and praise the group taxation, which was called by Gusenbauer and Matznetter, the current State Secretary, a few weeks and months earlier, as an instrument that you wanted to abolish immediately after entering the government, then this is already an example of how the SPÖ takes its government policy too little seriously. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The SPÖ apparently pursues only one goal, namely to shine in this Federal Government and to live out the sandbox dreams. However, it is apparently not willing to carry the country and its citizens in the heart of their political considerations and political work. You just have to admit that the last government was a very offensive government that thought beyond the ten-year horizon. Today, when we look at the newspapers and see that the Austrian Business Agency has a 34 percent growth in investment projects, this is due to the competitiveness and impact of the Austrian economy and the tax system: Here, far-sighted decisions have been taken regarding group taxation and the reduction of corporate tax, which is responsible for the economic success of the economy! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If this Federal Government makes the complete swing away from an offensive, dynamic economic policy into a tax offensive, in which vignette prices are expensive and mineral oil tax is increased, where social security contributions are expensive and are thought about introducing a property tax or maintaining inheritance and gift tax, then this is exactly the wrong way to stand diametrically towards what the last Federal Government has put on important accents for Austria! In this Federal Government and above all in the Federal Chancellor's sense of responsibility, we see an blatant weakness and a flaw: These Federal Governments and these Federal Chancellors not only broke a central election promise concerning Eurofighters in particular, but now also present this solution to us with the Eurofighters, namely to buy old aircraft for airspace surveillance, which becomes even more expensive during their lifetime of use! Ladies and gentlemen! This is not the intellectual origin of a German chancellor that we all wish for here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8888	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[10:20:54]] Objections against the agenda in accordance with § 50 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8911	We shall now proceed to the debate on the amendments tabled by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, concerning the decommissioning of points 6, 7 and 8 of the agenda. In line with a presidential round, I give the floor to one speaker or one speaker per club with a speaking time of 3 minutes. Then another speaker of the FPÖ comes up with a speaking time of 3 minutes. Mr Klubobmann was the first to speak. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8938	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! There is a joint proposal by all the political groups, which has been made in the presidency, according to which the draft Constitutional Committee is on the agenda on Friday, but now we are trying to see a two-thirds majority here afterwards, and that is not exactly the fine English one. - Why? FPÖ has refused its approval that the Banking Investigation Committee will end and report to the House because the audit order has been simply and simply not fulfilled. To date, countless witnesses such as former Finance Minister Karl-Heinz Grasser or a Mr Entrepreneur named Schlaff and others have said not to be relevant – and now we are experiencing that this great coalition with a two-thirds majority is clearly about to go over in this investigation committee. You are not prepared to live a new parliamentaryism and to allow for control rights and minority rights, and you are not even willing to carry out the audit task you have requested together with us and with the Greens! This is not just disappointing, but it shows that all that you have given in the past weeks and months towards more democracy and minority rights was only shawls. Unfortunately, reality looks different. That is why we will not vote for this move to agenda items 6, 7 and 8 on today's day. We want these points to be decommissioned. We want to ensure that the Banking Investigation Committee will also comply with its audit mandate and until 30. In November of this year, the Witnesses can carry out their investigation and question them in order to be able to write a report which is so serious at the end of the year. They don't seem to have much to do with it! They are very consciously anti-controlling here. They're trying to turn this investigation tool off. They apparently want to know several bodies still buried in the basement. You have no interest in discovering something here! That also explains why Together with the ÖVP, they now land the Eurofighter, the Battle Bomber, in Austria and at the same time want to turn off the Banking Investigation Committee on behalf of the ÖVP. However, this is detrimental to democracy and control in that country, and this is what it is all about. That is why we want to ensure that these points are removed today. We want to ensure that the new parliamentaryism is truly lived. That is what we are calling for, and that is why we have asked for this objection debate today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e8996	The next item is Mr Dr. A. Klepsch. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9017	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Strache, I do not know what the new kind of parliamentarism is about, that: You want to have an objection debate today. But now we lead them, and that's all right. I'd just like to tell you: The points you want to take away from today's debate are indeed very important and important. [[Abg. Strache: We want to treat them on Friday!]] For example, that we are negotiating today in our debate on the Federal Procurement Act, which the Constitutional Court has lifted up parts, which is why it is necessary to fix it quickly, and that we are today talking about the mobile phone TV, a new facility that has been widely desired and demanded, cannot be against your interests! [[Abg. Strache: What does it mean that we are dealing with these points on Friday?]] What is against the fact that today we are also talking about the Novelle 2007 Civil Service Law, which not only eliminates the schooling facilities for teachers, but takes a number of women- and family-friendly measures? [[Abg. Strache: You are the destroyers of the nation! That's the problem!]] Mr Strache, the subject you would like to discuss will be discussed. [[Abg. Street: The SPÖ is the new BZÖ of the Federal Government!]] You know for yourself that this topic is coming on Friday. What the urgent interest is that it is absolutely necessary today, you couldn't really show up in your speech before – and that you stand for the English way and not for the Austrian, that surprises us!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9097	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Schüssel. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9119	Madam President. We discussed the agendas for two hours at the President-in-Office's Conference. In principle, it was clear that today there is no joint report or separate reports on the Banking Committee, which should have been discussed today, for which there was sufficient time to be discussed on Friday. That is why it makes sense for us not to have a short-day arrangement today, but to discuss other issues that were completed yesterday by the Constitutional Committee – and these are important issues, such as service law or mobile phone TV. I believe that this is, in the sense of a reasonable parliamentaryism, that we will relieve the agenda of Friday so that we can talk about the financial templates, the issue of Europe and the question of the Banking Investigation Committee and have other issues today. I think that can be debated quite unagitated. Four political groups were actually of the opinion that it was a failure to do so. The FPÖ – and we take note of this – was concerned about this, but I think it is also in Their interest is that more time is available on Friday to discuss the work of the Banking Investigation Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9155	Mr Klubobmann's next speech is Dr. Van der Bellen. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9176	Madam President. The agenda today, Mr Strache, is in order from our point of view. That is why we do not support your objection. However, we expressly welcome this debate on the Rules of Procedure because it offers the opportunity to point out a scandal in these agendas during the three days of the sitting, namely that the SPÖ and the ÖVP will present a deadline proposal today. For the Listeners and listeners who don't know what it has to do with it, I say: This means that the work of the Banking Investigation Committee is completed and strangled by Friday. The Banking Investigation Committee will be strangled by ÖVP and SPÖ on Friday this week! And that's the real scandal! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In this committee, important witnesses were invited, and they did not appear. Before they can be forced to appear in front of the Committee and to provide information, the SPÖ and ÖVP Committee shall be strangled. In this committee, files were requested and not delivered, and when they were delivered, they were partly blackened and illegitimate. However, before the authorities, associations, companies and individuals concerned can be forced to deliver these files, the Banking Investigation Committee shall be recruited and strangled in the responsibilities and procedures of SPÖ and ÖVP. On Friday this week, the Committee of Inquiry on Banks and Financial Market Supervision is not ready. He has not been able to fulfil his investigational mandate, which he has been awarded here by the National Council. Nevertheless, or precisely because of that, it should be said, the SPÖ and ÖVP investigation committee is strangled. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: After eight months to speak of a “throwing ”...!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Bitch.]] This is the responsibility of the two government parties, who thus shamefully undermined and undermined the control rights of the National Council and Parliament. [[Abg. Strache: Not even all the files have been entered to this day!]] [[Further call-ins]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9251	Next, Mr. Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9273	Ladies and gentlemen! First comment: The FPÖ is always on the foot of war with the Rules of Procedure. Last time you got so upset by the FPÖ that you made a wrong request that you immediately left the house. Something funny again today: You want to put a item on the agenda for which you yourself voted in committee – this too is funny. Now you need to explain to people why you are suddenly against the mobile TV, especially the young people who are already waiting for why you want to put it off the agenda today. It's a mystery why you want that, but okay, you have to make that up with yourself. Second comment: They're evil now! Van der Bellen and Strache are now angry at the SPÖ, on their partner, with whom they have been cussing for eight weeks, eight months, and have gone through this farce by both investigation committees. [[Call the SPÖ:Months!]] [[Abg. Street: weeks with months to be confused, that fits the level!]] They were very fond of you: They let you play a bit on the meadow, Mr. Cap and Mr. Graf have a bit on TV in the afternoon program, a little at lunch with crocodile and Kasperl. – And now you are angry, because that happened, which everyone in the house knew anyway, that in the end the SPÖ falls over again and crawls back into the lap of the coalition! However, not without ‘browsels’. Of course, they have the biggest "brösel", not even the leader of the group in the Banking Investigation Committee, Mr. Krainer – he is already going out; he is already dissociating himself from this deadline request – but Mr. Cap must personally push through and whip this request in his group. Since he doesn't think he gets a majority there, he has to sign himself. What you are doing with parliamentarianism is also sad, Mr Cap. Of course! From the parliamentary point of view, this is a real farce! First, two investigation committees are used with bombs and grenades and Trara, and then you personally turn them off with your two hands. So, strangled, both! And your partners are suddenly angry and you don't want to. [[Abg. That's a test order, Mr. Westenthaler. That you don't want to know anything about control, we know.]] But that's what you, the committee coalition, have to make up for yourself. You have managed that there is nothing in this committee that has been spent for eight months, but there is no result. And now you are angry because you have not brought together a common request. [[Abg. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Cashier's party and trust party!]] It's to generate for the SPÖ because it's fallen down, and it's for both of you, for greens and FPÖs, who are now angry and make a theatre out of the fact that the SPÖ has fallen. This coalition is pathetic – and now thank God be broken apart again!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9349	The next item is the speech by Mr Graf. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9371	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! All the time, what is against changing the agenda is being discussed, but one should actually ask: What does that mean, Mr. Schüssel? Why has it become necessary to change the agenda? - You didn't say that. Mr Westenthaler has forgotten that he himself has filed a request for examination of the BAWAG maladministrations – and we are not done, Mr Westenthaler! [[Abg. Scheibner: Because you have examined everything possible others!]] That's where you can talk, as you want, you're on board as well! What is the point of changing the agenda? – It is not the Freedom Party that has wished for the agenda to be changed. They were in sad twilight! SPÖ and ÖVP had to change them! Why? – Because behind the scenes, myest post chess is operated. Mister post chesser, for which you needed a few more days! [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] They even use the means of turning off the Committee of Inquiry or both committees of inquiry to negotiate until the end of the year: Who will be President of the National Bank? Is Mr. Novotny capable, should he do it or not? What does the ÖVP get for it? Who gets the board of directors of the financial market?, and so on. These are the real motives! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] You needed time to change that. Nothing else is going on here in the high house now! It is a farce when Mr Trunk and the SPÖ have ordered documents with the ÖVP on Monday which are coming in today, and there is no committee meeting at all at all! Here they are! [[The speaker holds up papers.]] When do you want to deal with those in committee, Mr. Schüssel? Do you seriously want to say that you are requesting documents whose arrivals you have? You didn't want to wait again?- Oh, my God! And what are you doing for it? – The last parliamentarianism. 48 hours earlier, the issue of the current hour will be announced – the agenda was only announced yesterday evening! [[Abg. Strache: This is a chaos, from the President to the government parties!]] That's not 48 hours! You want to change the agenda, you need a two-thirds majority. If this is the new government, two-thirds majority, go over the opposition and the minority rights – then thank you! [[Abg. Strache: This is the new method!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I also say to the SPÖ's handshake quality: You have to qualify first. You're not ready to sit in the opposition, we've noticed. And whether you're ready to sit in a government, we're going to find out, because post chessers alone at the expense of taxpayers is too little!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9461	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen! I would ask you to go to your places, because we are now voting. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who want to take account of the objections, that is to say, to withdraw points 6, 7 and 8 from the agenda in order to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Very hesitant!]] The agenda for today's sitting, which has been communicated in writing, remains valid. Apart from the 24-hour lead-out period
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9493	In order to be able to negotiate items 7 and 8 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 7 and 8 are reports of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (139 of the Supplements): The Federal Law on Private Remotes (Bundesgesetz), with which the Act, the ORF Act and the KommAustria Act (194 of the Supplements), and on the amendment 255/A by Mr Pendl, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Neugebauer, Mr Deutschrechts-Novelle 2007 (193 of the Supplements). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is accepted by the majority. I note that the required two-thirds majority is given. [[10:37:25]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9533	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9797	Deputies Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, before entering the agenda, asked for the self-employed amendment 259/A(E) tabled at the same time. Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on late file transmission to the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Requests for deadlines
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9818	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that Mr Strache, fellow Members, requested the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers to report a period of up to 30 days. ==References== In addition, this is the case of five delegates, according to § 43 para. 3 the request made by the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on this request for a time limit. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. The vote on the request for a deadline will take place at the end of this short debate. Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that Members Dr. Cap and Dr. Stummvoll have requested the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers to report a period of up to 5. to sit on July. The motion for a resolution will be put to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure after the end of the negotiations. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9861	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 to 4, 11 to 13 and 14 to 16 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9885	After consultation with members of the Presidential Conference, a day-blocking period of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been envisaged, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP each 131 minutes, greens and FPÖ each 108 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is accepted by the majority. [[10:40:37]] 1. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 228/A by Mrs Werner Amon, MBA, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the transitional care law (187 d.b.) 2. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the motion for a resolution 253/A by Mr Renate Csörgits, colleagues and colleagues on a federal law amending the Federal Carriers Act, the Federal Act on the Approval of the Federal Proposal for the Year 2007 (Bundesfinanzgesetz 2007) and the Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for 2008 (Federal Finance Act 2008) and on the Request 246/A by Mr Karl Oellinger, Members of Parliament, concerning a federal law amending the Federal Caring Act (188 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on amendment 136/A(E) by Mr Werner Neubauer, colleagues on financial and constitutional protection of the entitlement to care (189 d.a.) 4. Point Report by the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on Amendment 112/A(E) by Mrs Theresia Haidlmayr, colleagues, on the annual report on the activities of the defendant to the National Council and the Federal Council (190 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e9973	We now come to points 1 to 4 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Oellinger. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10004	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! You almost miss the air because of what has just been decided: A committee of inquiry, which is not yet finished with his work, was turned off. - Okay, that's one. However, the air will remain out of your mind if we now discuss the revision of a law that came into force two or three days ago. That's why you're staying here. the air away, Mr. Federal Minister, because you are still happy to announce in an advertisement, which has already appeared several times in several newspapers: “It’s right in the direction. It's right the way. It is the first step.” I repeat: The first step is certainly not! Today, after the law is in force for three days, we decide to change this law! And since a certain formal path must also be followed in the event of a revision, this new law, which you decide today with the majority of government parties, can only enter into force by the end of the month, which is why it will be adopted retroactively. Now you can still be of the opinion – in terms of content there are good reasons – that something is changed positively. Only, Minister of State, it is certainly not the first step. It is not the first step, but it is the second – purely formal speaking – now. And so far, the people who depend on this grant or grant still do not know what they really expect. It should not necessarily be a measure of the way in which the Westthaler has been known by a law, because in the previous debate, the Westenthaler Member has said something completely wrong – that being the case. Members of the Westenthaler have said that people are now being prevented from accessing the care allowance through the 5 000€ power limit – that is certainly not the case. Mr Westenthaler, you should already know that the care money is not yet dependent on income and wealth. But back to you, Minister of State. I'm really wondering: What did you think of this listing? “It’s right.” – What direction, Minister of State? I really ask you seriously: what direction? – That we now legalize the cheap workers, who are grateful to God for us here, legalize them, let them work at a price that no one in Austria can afford to work at? – You have to say that, too, Minister of State! Yes, we're lucky, we're lucky in a situation where there's a nursing emergency, that thanks to God there are still people from neighbouring countries who are ready to work a few hundred euros net here, in employment conditions that actually don't deserve this name. Because 24 hours, even if you have written breaks cashily into the law, work in one place for 14 days, caring for severely ill people – ladies and gentlemen, I tell you one thing: I'm glad if that's all right, and I think in most cases it's okay. These people make a very responsible job, but a solution to the problem of care and care for older and severely disabled people is certainly not that! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] “It’s right in the direction,” you say. Then you say: “The way is right.” – What way, Minister of State? – We decide here to extend a grant – that is the change compared to the last decision one month ago – to persons in the care classes 3 and 4. But there is no legal right to this grant! This grant is possible according to the means, depending on the income – that is the €2 500 net – and depending on an existing assets. I am particularly interested in this context: There's no legal claim! - That's right? Can that be the future? We have always criticized – and this has also criticised SPÖ – how, for example, the BZÖ has made social policy and the FPÖ, who were still one and the same at the time, that they have acted in accordance with the guarantee principle, as Mr Haider in Carinthia paid his grants, paid his pension grants by hand, turned down and had to celebrate, as he wanted, according to the need, and if it goes right, there are no grants if it does not work. That's right, Mr. Federal Minister? Is this really the way to go? - It can't be. Apart from that, Federal Minister, one must first have the money to afford it. 2 000 € to 3 000 €, you only have to apply it – and if you don't have it, then what is it? Then there is nothing to help you with the donation you may give or the Federal Government may be giving. What is it then? – Then they had bad luck and must have told me just how a Federal Minister told me – that was so! - I'm going home. Bad luck! I don't want to say anything about the quality of homes that are very different; there are very good nursing homes. I would never make the mistake of saying that care at home is always and in all circumstances better than at home. There are very good homes, but there are also very bad ones; very bad people who depend on going to a home do not and certainly do not have sufficient opportunity to determine their daily life, and that is crucial! That's the advantage of staying at home. But if the whole thing is still dependent on at least €2,000, possibly even €3,000, then do you say that the way is right? Ladies and gentlemen! Is then really the right thing to read here in this listing: “It’s the first step.”? This is to be read. The first step – which is the first step? The one we set a month ago, or the one we're sitting today? I hope you remember the debate we had a month ago. At that time we also made a request: Extension to care level 3 and 4. No, you were all against it by the government parties. We have called for the extension of the amnesty regime – not because we consider the amnesty to be the super-solution, but because in this situation and only for a transition and only until the Federal Government finds a solution to the comprehensive care problem, helping people to cope with their daily lives. The people who are now in need of care or in need of care depend on the people they now have at home, and who thank God for the relatives who do so in the next few months. But how long this solution lasts that people from the neighbouring countries are ready to work here in Austria for these low wages and for these extremely elusive working conditions, you know just as well as I do, that may be one or two years. – And then what is it? What is the alternative of the Federal Government? Nothing! They set up structures here for the future in the field of care, which have no future capacity, and that is the accusation we make to you. And if you still write at the end of the listing: “Go together, work together, get together, your social minister Erwin Buchinger”, I can only say, over the last few months we have been looking at what they have been doing in the care sector in the interests and for the well-being of those in need. This is pathetic, and that is certainly not what people deserve – and especially those in need of care!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10107	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. 6 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10128	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Visitors! The field of care is an issue that will concern us in the coming years and where this government has agreed to a legal solution and regulation within a few months. The Greens have always said in recent weeks that it would be best to extend the amnesty regime, i.e. they wanted precarious conditions where people without legal protection, without legal regulations, work in our households. – We have given this a rejection. We have offered a solution that legal regulations take place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention some practical examples from my environment of my meeting with people in Vienna. It is true that 55 percent of the people who need care and care are cared for by the family. It is true that a quarter of all people in need of care in our country are cared for by mobile services and family members. You see, 80 percent of people who need care and care in our country, need their relatives, need mobile services. 15 percent of people are hospitalized, i.e. they are housed in homes where dignity is taken into account, an age of people in dignity. And 5 percent of the people in need of care – the estimates – have a care at home, which in recent years has always been very close to society without regulations, without any legal measures being taken care of. This is where we present a loophole today. And that there is an improvement in the fact that people of care funds 3 and 4 are also involved is all the better and that is also very important. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to my practical examples. Gertrude L. in Vienna visits a daily centre. In the evening, the relatives take care of them. Her day is structured, she has care, she has employment, and what is also very important in older people: Loneliness does not control it, but it has diversity and entertainment in the day center and meets other people. Barbara S. lives in her apartment, a small community apartment, and is cared for by mobile services – home help comes three times a day and on weekends – and by family members. Walter B., whose wife is dementia ill, serves his wife together with a home aid from a neighboring country, and he is very pleased that there is this regulation now because he has always been very observed. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is this the next ad text?]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I know that I have taken out Vienna examples here, because in Vienna there is an excellent network of stationary care, day care, and of course family members are also very own-initiative on the road. Our way is: We want diversity instead of inadvertentness, and we want to make offers. This is particularly important in this area. And what's very important, because it's about people and their fates, we want security and legal solutions. In this sense, I would like to thank the experts of the Ministries who have discussed, negotiated and put forward proposals very intensively on this subject in recent months. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The federal government spends € 2 billion, the countries € 1 billion. This means that 1.3 percent of the gross domestic product is spent on care and care. A care increase would only be a very short-term answer. It is important to us that the interaction between a financial increase and the increase in offers is addressed in the next few years. It is a success that more people are now covered by this regulation and that there is also a promotion for self-employment in care. But there will also be further good cooperation with the countries, because the national social assistance representatives have also assumed that the classification of disabled children is much better. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This ensures that we can vote an § 21b. I would also like to thank the Green Group for the initiative taken by Mr Haidlmayr, who wanted to make the report of the defendant's office public. Unfortunately, in the course of the discussion, there was no agreement with the Greens, but with the other political groups, we can join the report of the Barbarians' Office with the report on the situation of disabled people. I think that this too is an important sign that diversity rather than inadvertentness shape our actions and that security and legal solutions are the framework for the activities of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10224	The amendment, which has just been read by Mrs Lapp, has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10288	The next item is the speech by Mr Ing. Hofer. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10310	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. State Secretary! As you know, I am not a great friend of the ÖVP, not a great friend of the BZÖ, but it is nevertheless necessary to clarify the following in all the criticisms that have already been made about these two parties in the framework of recent government cooperation: This Federal Government did not have a two-thirds majority. And all of us have expected that this two-thirds majority will actually address the major problems facing this country, that the care problem in particular will be solved. And there is, of course, great disappointment that it was not possible to ensure a proper solution to this embarrassing problem in Austria with this two-thirds majority. You remember that before the National Council election, we discussed the issue of care issues, that many individual cases have appeared, which have shown impressively what there is to do for us. It is therefore very a pity that, although working groups were set up, these working groups either did not produce the result that was expected – or that these working groups were not adequately heard. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I have the impression – and this has also shown the debate over the past few weeks and months – that one partner is on the brake and the other on the gas pedal with the coalition partners. – Whoever takes the role I leave to your imagination, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In any case, there is much to do for us; many open questions need to be clarified: The organisation of day care at country level, short-term care, funding, all of this is open – and finally we have to consider how we can make the financial resources available for these important social areas. I would like to remind you once again that it is urgently necessary to restart the Austrian Convention or to lead to a success, because we in Austria – compared to the Federal Republic of Germany – need more for our administration by €3 billion. Now we must not blame the officials, for: It is the policy that makes this extra effort necessary with a flood of legislation and regulation. That is why we must do everything we can to save money in order to make money available for important social measures. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, an inflation adjustment in this context – which has already been mentioned today – has been promised by the Federal Chancellor. Gusenbauer said: If I become Federal Chancellor, there will be an inflation adjustment in the care money! Remember: Since the introduction of the care money, this has lost enormously in value, namely 18 percent! And there is no inflation adjustment in relation to the care allowance, even during this legislative period! That is, German chancellor Gusenbauer has broken his word once again, and this is very sad and bad, especially for those in need of care in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, we also need to start a training campaign in the care sector, because at some point the day on which incomes continue to rise in the Czech Republic, Slovakia or Hungary and this care staff will no longer come to Austria to take care and care measures here – very cheaply. And then where do we take people who care for the old and the sick in Austria? Therefore, once again: We need a training offensive. We also need the professional image of the old-age care provider, and we also need a professional matura to upgrade the care professions. These are the measures we need to take. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is also a need for action on the dayset in nursing homes. We need criteria that are valid throughout the country and we need a separate daily rate, a rate which depends on the care of the person to be cared for, i.e. this rate corresponds to the care level – and a second rate, the housing rate, where each person can decide because of his/her pension, which home is manageable. That would be fair. The care tariff must ensure that everyone in need of care in Austria also receives this care. And as far as the house rate is concerned, you should be able to decide whether to go to a home with triple rooms or in a single room. – Care must at least be ensured. In our view, care is a state task, a task that the State has to ensure, either through the provision of infrastructure or through the provision of financial resources. And that is why I also believe that we must agree that today children have their incomes for the care of their parents. This is a great burden for parents when they know that one day their children, when they are in need of care, have to pay for this care financially. [[Abg. Donabauer: ABGB is that! It's no different!]] – Mr colleague, we are here in the National Council, and the National Council can change laws! This may be a completely new experience you're coming to, but: The National Council is there to change laws – and not to comment on something. So I think it is necessary to free parents and children from this mill, because: Whoever rears children also delivers a performance for the public hand. And as we know, children can actually slip into the poverty trap if they pay for the care costs of the parents. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] – Mr Commissioner, I have misunderstanded you. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: Should parents no longer have maintenance obligations?]] – Mr Commissioner, you are confusing two things there! But good: They are obviously because the children pay the care of the parents; I take note of this. The maintenance services paid by parents are completely undisputed. I said yes, the parents do a service for the public hand, through the maintenance obligations for the children. [[Abg. Oillingers: In Vorarlberg even the grandchildren are supposed to pay according to ÖVP!]] - Please! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: I am only surprised that the FPÖ now says everything stately...!]] No, Mr President, we do not say that, but the care is quite a classical state task. [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Olympians: There you get applause from me!]] But they want something else and say: No, the kids have to pay! – Well, it’s all right; I take note of that. As for the maintenance, there is also the possibility that the Caritas will stand for maintenance obligations; there is also this in Christian-Democratic circles. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat our position: no access to the income of children! In this context, since it is always claimed that the opposition only criticises a motion for a resolution, and because of its large scale, Madam President, I look away from its reading. It is a motion for a resolution on measures to ensure care. As we are now discussing the care: Mrs Lapp has said that she is pleased that self-employment will also be possible. However, I would like to point out that in Vienna, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats Socialist trade unionist has made a very successful request to the Chamber of Labour, which means, among other things, – I quote – that: Self-employed persons generally do not have the legal key characteristics of self-employment either, since the work is carried out on the direct instruction of the employer with his work materials and in his private household. The bill would only make out of the previous illegal situation one of the shackles, which would again be illegal. - Quote. I therefore ask all the members of the FSG here in the House to vote against this bill because otherwise you would vote against your own FSG line. Ladies and gentlemen, now will be – thank God! – this care option is also open to care levels 3 and 4. However, I would suggest that we go further and open up the possibility of care. You know that no need testing is carried out from stages 5 to 7, but at Stages 3 and 4 very well. Therefore, we could also open this up to the levels below, precisely with the need test, because it may be that a child in the care phase 2 needs a round-the-clock care due to the circumstances – low age and care needs – due to the circumstances. Therefore, it would be good to say: Down from level 5, this performance shall also be recognised as part of a requirement test. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] As far as asset exploitation is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, almost all disabled organisations are in agreement. And I think there are many sitting here on the banks of SPÖ and ÖVP, which are not really enthusiastic about this solution. We know from Germany, around Hartz IV, that such a thing creates an crazy administrative burden, and this way also prevents people from taking care of their own, because: Why should a person save for age when he knows that he does not get some benefits if he has more than €5,000? - That's crazy! Self-reliance, self-care – as we are again of an opinion – is something necessary. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You're against that! You don't want that!]] – No, my colleague! I'll tell you once again: It's about ensuring the state's task of caring – you can't let anyone in our country die – but: In this area, it is also necessary not to punish personal care. And we also need to distinguish between those who live in a home, who have no expenditure for dwelling or house, and those who live at home and are cared for there. I would ask you to consider: For example, if these people have a repair on the roof or have some small things to repair in the house, there is not a lot of money! You know what craftsmen cost, even because of the high additional wage costs. With 5 000 € you won't get far! These people also need these necessary financial resources for their home. That is why we are liberals against this limit of wealth. And we are also in favour of having a legal right to these benefits, as Mr Oellinger has already said. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] One last sentence, ladies and gentlemen. In my view, Federal Minister Buchinger, the information campaign you have launched, has a very large hook, namely that the ads are equipped with very little information. You are one of those Federal Ministers who have a very high level of awareness in Austria, and I would therefore ask you to refrain from taking the photos on future advertisements and using texts instead.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10517	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ing. Hofer, colleagues and colleagues on measures to ensure care is over one page long. It has been explained in its main guidelines, is distributed and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10619	The second motion for a resolution, tabled by Mr Hofer, is that of Mr Hofer, Mr Kickl, Mr Neubauer, on insufficient social and legal protection for the workers. Member States, have been properly brought in, is sufficiently supported and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10720	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10742	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that we are a very important step further with today's proposals on the care topic, because I – let me say this – was not very happy about how this discussion – beginning with the election campaign – took place, and also that, in truth, a relatively large uncertainty has arisen in the population for various reasons. That is why I am actually glad that we are coming to see today that what has become known in the media as a “molder model” is basically now being implemented, because at the end it is about giving people security in such a sensitive area as the nursing sector, ladies and gentlemen. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Reheis: He was good!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] Mr. Eine, I would like to address this polemic call – if you ask whether this is better than the ‘suspension model’: I am not aware of the fact that the Federal Chancellor has presented a model for care out of service; Mr. Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance has done so for the reasons you know – for example, for the reason that in the presentation of the Federal Minister Buchinger the care levels 3 and 4 were not taken into account. That's what we're doing now, that's part of the "Molder model", and that's good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For example, we did not want to continue talking about uncertainty by transferring to people in need of care more or less from one day to another the responsibility that they are now suddenly working as entrepreneurs, i.e. nurses. There needs a comprehensive – Mr. Federal Minister, a comprehensive one! – information campaign; and precisely that is why Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance also proposed extending the care amnesty by half a year in order to give people safety. We are giving people security with this, and that is a success of this coalition, ladies and gentlemen, and it should not be a small one either. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] For us, it was also important that there be equal treatment in promoting, supporting the areas of self-employed and self-employed care. It is also important that one does not divide these two groups, even that gives people safety, and it is certainly right that this point is also included in the “molder model”. The last point, which is open here – and I say that with a look at the Federal Minister – is, of course, the whole subject complex: How are the federal states involved in the financing model? – It is true – and I am also glad, Federal Minister – that it has succeeded in ensuring funding until the end of the year, but what is then is open. I believe that it is not possible to transfer it to the Minister of Finance alone, so to speak, to guarantee a financing here, but I believe that it is also the responsibility of a joint solution to care financing in cooperation with the social partners of the countries and with the financial representatives of the countries. I really think that's important! In summary, I believe that we are one step further, Mr Federal Minister, and I believe that we, the two groups of the Social Democracy and the People's Party, have taken important steps here to give more safety and to counter the care problem – a first important step was to ensure a corresponding employment law for the 24 hours care, especially for the 24 hours care. So I think we're on the right path, and I think we should continue along this path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10815	Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10837	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! High house! I will keep my word, German chancellor Gusenbauer still has before the election in the SPÖ newspaper “SPÖ Aktuell” big titled. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! Care is the best example of broken promises and a broken word. I also think of what you said here, Mr Federal Minister, before the election: We need a legal rule of valorization against the unreasonable devalue of the care allowance. – I ask: Where is this legal regulation? Before the election, the care emergency has been declared. – If I now receive an interview from you, dear Mr. Federal Minister, printed in the “Kronen Zeitung” of 24. June, read through, then say literally there: “The conditions in Austria regarding care and care are basically exemplary. Now we’re making an improvement.” – So here too: What's going on? The one before the election or the one after the election? This model of 24-hour care, which has already been decided here in the House, is certainly not a real improvement, but a move out of a problem by half a year. That your coalition partner, the ÖVP, does not even believe that this 24-hour model is a good one, also shows that at the same time an application for extension of the care amnesty was filed. – I can remember that you have always been against the extension of this amnesty – now go along. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, you can't follow this eternal back and forth very slowly. In my view, what is to be innovative today is also a result of a working style in this government, in which no one can do with the other, but above all no one trusts the other. For example, Mr Amon has now referred to the ‘Molder model’; probably you, Mr. Federal Minister, will say that is the ‘Buchinger model’. – And here alone shows what vanitys take place, and I think that especially in the care and care of people with disabilities and older people is no place for political vanity. What is being innovationized after a few days today is an improvement in the grant, the grant already starting from the care level 3. I see it positively that you are finally meeting our demand here, because we have already tabled a request on the part of the BZÖ at the last plenary session and also in the Committee. It should only be noticed that you are already switching ads, although that has not yet been decided. But the wormhead drop is finally again that there are 3 restrictions from the care level, restrictions that people need a medical confirmation for a 24-hour care and that they do not get 800 € and not 250 €, but a support “up to” of this height, so that this is also at the discretion of politics again. The second point, which many of my previous speakers have already mentioned, which I see as one of the biggest weaknesses, is the capital cap of €5,000. This is really an unfavorable one, because the one who has created something that has a savings book that has put something aside – and it is not just the older ones, there are a lot of younger people with disabilities who want to save something for their future – is being punished. Your President of the Pensioners' Association has not rightly asked: Do you have to get poor first to get support? – This question is legitimate. That is why I appeal to you, Federal Minister Buchinger: If you are in damages, do not apply your policies to this property limit! Especially when a federal state – Lower Austria – has already been shaved out and said: We don't have this limit on wealth! – Let’s not create how- patients, people with disabilities, older people living in a two-class society! Therefore: Please remove these asset boundaries – the criticism of this goes across all parties, going across all organizations – because I do not think you want to enter social history with a care model “Hartz-IV”! I also appeal to you, with all this confusion that has been shown over the past few months, to stop and finally to try to create a sustainable solution, a sustainable solution in the care and care of which people are entitled to a security package! And that means for us to quickly increase the care money now and then continuously adjust it. This also means, for us, that there should also be a right to services that relieves caring relatives, just as the example of care check has already been tested in two federal states. Security also means investing offensively in training in the professional field, for example in a teaching profession of care assistant, in voluntary re-trainings for people who have become unemployed, but also, for example, that the voluntary social year should be regarded as a prerequisite for care and care professions. The large pieces of funding, I believe, must first be arranged internally with the countries and communities in order not to go out every day with a different report. As a result, the public authorities have the responsibility to ensure that care funding is provided out of the sprinkling tax resources, because if a minimum guarantee is made possible in a country such as Austria, that must also apply to care. I therefore tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you, Minister of State, but also very much the entire government! Make sure that the people who need care and care are not alms recipients in the future, are not bitters in the future, but have a right to grow old in dignity, where 80 percent of Austrians want this: at home! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e10949	Mr Haubner's motion for a resolution on financial security for the care and care of people in need of care has been properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11010	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11032	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! In my speech on the budget, I have already made it sound that in the social field – and this is undisputed – much remains to be changed and much to be improved, but one thing – as the social spokesperson of the ÖVP can nudge, as he wants – is clearly apparent: that after seven years in social policy now, under Federal Minister Buchinger, something is going on again. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Instead of nagging, dear Werner Amon, we should all be glad that today this overall package of care is decided by the Council of Ministers, which was decided in mid-June, because, as I believe, those people who benefit from it should be in the foreground – and not a party-political hack that no one understands anymore. I am also pleased because there will be more promotions for these people in the future and also the involvement of care levels 3 and 4. I personally have no joy – I have said that again and again – that this amnesty will be extended once again. But it is just as Mr Oillinger said: In order to avoid the uncertainty of those concerned, it was necessary to extend it once again by half a year. But it is important that this regulation, even if it is retroactive with 1. July enters into force, finally allowing for a permanent and legal care at home. [[Abg. Oils: Finally!]] [[Abg. Haidlmayr: It's not very easy!]] – We still have a lot to do, I say! In this context, I am convinced that, even if it is only the first step in the right direction, we can nevertheless talk about a social policy milestone because many people will benefit from this funding model. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] [[Calls of the Abg. Haidlmayr.]] We still need to talk about a lot in the future, but we have seen clearly what the further steps are to be. . But you, Mr Oellinger, said that the further steps were not recognizable. However, it has been clearly stated by the Minister that the extension of the substation facilities and the extension of short-term care must also be forced. I think that's where we can screw up all the sleeves, because we still have a lot to do. [[Abg. Oils: Eben, yes!]] Mr Daar Colleague Amon has said that it is now sausage whether this proposal has come from Molterer or anyone else, I would just like to remind you that the Minister of Finance took a stand on 6 June. In June, it was very likely that the financial resources for the extension to care levels 3 and 4 could be made available. We already have to play with open cards and we can't say: We want everything, but there will be no money for it! We need to discuss that too. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am glad that Minister Buchinger succeeded in saying: At least for this year's financial needs can be ensured over the federal government, so that we now have time to “put on the feet” the rest of the financial compensation negotiations. [[Abg. Steibl: But he had to negotiate everything!]] With the countries – I am convinced – there will be good solutions.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11145	Mrs Haidlmayr. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11167	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr Spindelberger, you don't always have to do everything understand what one is talking about. – Faith You're telling me: Of this you have relatively little idea! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But that's your problem, not my problem – and I'm going to explain that as well. Now, on the applications which have already been submitted: Mrs Haubner, we do not agree with your request, we are against this care check. They also wanted the service check at that time, and we know where it was going anyway. – We want cash benefits and no benefits and other things that you have in your request. You could have done all of this, after all, you were in the government for seven years, but there you have “sleeped ” that leg hard. I am glad and proud that you have moved at least a little bit in relation to the request I have made, that there must be an annual report from the Public Prosecutor's Office, although not quite in the direction I have imagined, but at least you have moved! You have been moved in such a way that you allow at least every two years there to be a report from the Public Prosecutor's Office. Unfortunately, we do not yet know when these two years start – whether we get the first report in June 2008 or only in 2009 or whenever – that does not stand in this proposal, but at least it is a bit far. And since I do not know when the start will take place, I shall, of course, return my motion for a resolution, which reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is an additional guarantee to ensure that the work of the Public Prosecutor's Office must also be made public, as is the case with the Public Prosecutor's Office. But now to the chapter of this amnesty regime, to the revision of the laws and to how it will continue in the future in the field of care. Mrs Lapp has said that these legal bases, which are now being created in this field of care, are a gap. – If a gap line looks that way, I wish that there never be one, because that is the same as with already closed stations: There's something coming, then, long, long nothing comes, then a little something comes, then there's also a long, long, long nothing. But there's nothing to do with loopholes. Mrs Lapp has also said that this solution offers security and is a good legal solution. – Security is not, you know, because there is no legal right to these grants. And as long as there is no legal claim, you can't explain to me that this is a security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] Moreover, it has not been ensured – listen to me! – that you also get the costs of care, the assistance and assistance that the individual needs, but you get only a little bit. First you got a little care money, and now you can also have a little bit of a grant. That is to say, I can now, as a victim, if I want to hire someone today – for example, caregivers who have been heavily trained by the AMS for years, are actually available for these areas and who will probably force the employment office to do these activities if they do not want to lose their unemployment benefit – to pay these men and women who have been trained an hourly wage between 80 cents and 1.20 euros. This is then possible, despite this promotion. If I have care level 7, I get care money of 1,600 € plus a maximum of 800 € grant. I have to hire two people to do this. This results in net – because I have to pay 15 times – in the month 480 €. Minister! Mrs. Lapp! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Who do you know who could afford to be there in Austria by €480 net for two weeks – day and night? Who do you know? - I don't know anyone. I don't know anyone, and many affected people like me – we've been looking for – don't know anyone either, because it's simply not possible to work through two weeks by €480 net. You can't afford to work through two weeks physically, and you can't live with 480 € net. You can't live by this salary, but more can't pay the people concerned because they don't have the money, Minister. If these now trained care workers are forced to choose either to get the unemployment benefit further or to do these 480-€-net jobs, they will not be able to live with 480 € and the unemployment benefit will not get them. Those affected can no longer pay because they simply don't have the money. It will remain as it is: The foreign nurses will continue to do these activities. How long, we don't know, because as soon as they have better financial conditions in their own countries than now in Austria – and that won't take much longer – they are gone too. What you have done now is not a loophole, Mr Minister, that is no security either, as your colleague Lapp has said, but you have now tried and started to turn the wheel a little. Now that you've turned this wheel a little bit, you've noticed what's going on. We must ensure that the situation of people with disabilities and people of old age improves, that they are sure that they can stay at home, regardless of how much wealth they have, regardless of how much income they have, and regardless of how old or how intensively disabled they are. Mr Minister, if someone uses his own resources to afford this, he must, if he has nothing left – everything is sold, everything is spent – only in the home. That is, by your asset exploitation You are not sure that he can stay at home even if this asset is exploited. If the person is used in the home and the property, he is assured that he can stay in the home and can no longer fly out there. Those who perform this outpatient must not stay at home, but then “flies” into their homes, where, of course, they are sure that they will not fly out of there. That is, a home accommodation will not be prevented in the future, but it will only delay for so long until the wealth is gone. That is, legal certainty of self-determined life, the choice of one's own form of housing and care will not exist because there is no legal certainty that outpatient help is that self-determined life simply becomes a human right and the society of this human right also has to finance. That's a shame. It is not a solution, Mr Minister, it has been turned a little bit on the wheel, but we do not have a solution yet. I would ask you to do something in this direction so that the insecurity of the people who are concerned can end. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11278	I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haidlmayr, colleagues and colleagues is properly supported, and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11341	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11363	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We advise a very difficult matter. I think that the problem is going to be seen that, in reality, many do not want to recognize or fail to recognize what has been building up and providing social policy services in this country for decades at the end. A country with a social ratio of 29.7 percent of gross domestic product does not need to hide comparisons, no matter where you look. We should finally be happy and proud of all that we have done. Nor does it deserve any party to be constantly put on as if it had made too little. Everyone has made His, only different. This federal government, of course – as well as other – makes re-adjustment processes, which are important, today and here the Federal Care Act. I would like to expressly praise the two ministries which have managed this certainly difficult matter, which was started to discuss last summer – for whatever reason –: on the one hand, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour and, on the other hand, the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection, of course. What they have presented here is correct. Of course one will have to improve one thing or another, the experience will show us, but in total, I think, we will meet this difficult matter with very good specifications. To think that's nothing, that's all bad – please let's remember a few numbers: Today, we have seen 285,000 people who receive care benefits from the federal care fund. We're spending €1.6 billion on this. This is indeed a good sum, which is paid out of the tax pot. We have a regime like no other country, without the benefit of the citizens. It is now about providing support to people who need not only care but above all care. It's not just about old people, it's also about young people. This is about those who are in a particular situation in life, because we often lack the family structures, because we often have to see how we can help here with the voluntaryness and support of other citizenships. With this law, we give a measure of support to those who are self-employed or employed. I think we should be a little more satisfied in the situation. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If some federal states have special regulations here, we do not need to condemn these federal states. This is their voluntary decision. Because of federalism, they are allowed to do so. I hope that a better balance will be found here as part of the financial compensatory negotiations. That would be desirable. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! In principle, I would like you not only to be able to act before Parliament and to receive your approval, but also to be able to stand before citizenship. As Mrs Haidlmayr has once again given an opinion on the activities of the disabled lawyer today, I can say: Yes, we have done so very well in the Committee. and we should like this report to be presented to the Minister on its own and thus also presented to the public, because it is our concern to know what life, situation and the nature of many disabled people in that country is like.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11420	The next speaker is Mr Neubauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11441	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Allow me to address the situation in my hometown of Linz, which is really a social role model city. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Thank you!]] We have expected gross domestic product to be the highest share of all the capitals of the country, but we cannot solve all the problems of this country in Linz as well. What do I mean by that? – We have a so-called Linz ticket in Linz, for example. This Linz ticket receives people who have no more than € 1,000 per month of income. What does that mean? – This means that all people who fall under it have reduced tariffs in the urban area – in the case of public transport, in the use of public institutions and more. But what does that mean? – That means that we have now seen how many people in this city accept this offer. Of the approximately 185 000 people who currently have Linz, 65 000, ladies and gentlemen, have now noticed this offer! Can you imagine what that means? – That means that more than a third of the Linz population has less than € 1,000 in income. If you calculate this in Austria, you can imagine how many people in this country have to live with an income that is no longer worthy of human beings and is in line with the requirements of our time. Not only do we have 65 000 people whose income is less than € 1,000, but we also have 102 000 nights in the homeless in Linz in the social field. The mayor mentioned these figures himself when presenting the capital city of Linz as the capital of culture in 2009, so I can repeat them: 102 000 nights for homeless people in Linz – in a year! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what I am talking about now and what I would like to talk about is: The Court of Auditors has found that the care model presented lacks €300 million. Mr Federal Minister, I have asked you several times how you wish to spend this money. You have not been able or willing to answer this question. You have estimated €60 to 70 million for your model, which you have presented for decision-making today. I give Mrs Haidlmayr the full meaning: A security, Mrs Lap, is not this proposal! We already have to be quite clear about that. There can be no security for this model in the care. It is true that there are real flaws in the model presented and that it is actually an extension of the previous results and an extension of this period of thought, if you want to, until 30. In December, the Commission adopted a proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States We have proposed a model for you, ladies and gentlemen. We said: If we have the courage, let us attack the Danish model! Let's make an anchoring of the care in the Constitution! If we compare the care sector with 18 per cent – that is the loss whose compensation has actually been necessary since the last increase from 1995 to today – and we increase the share of gross domestic product from 1.1 per cent to 2 per cent! This would be an increase of 0.9 percent. With this project, we would have the guarantee and security, ladies and gentlemen, because we are back to safety, and the people in this country deserved to be sure – that this care is anchored and that it will be guaranteed even next year and beyond. Then we would have a model we could be proud of, and we didn't need to think every year about what people in this country are expecting next year. I looked at the “Help TV”, in which the Federal Minister was grateful to me, even though he had previously been treated quite badly by Mr Pröll. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Pepper.]] He took the opportunity and put himself there in the discussion. [[Abg. Königsberger-Ludwig: You don't!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, if you have seen the fear that these people were there – with tears in their eyes they have turned to the Minister of State and have formally begged him, he can really get through in the field of care and create security – then you can see what really moves the people of this country. I would really like to ask you at this point, Minister of State: Have the courage to make use of a present model that experts have calculated! Make use of this Danish model, then we really have security for the next 25 years. People in this country have really deserved that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11500	The next speaker is Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11522	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am glad that we are speaking here in Parliament again about the Federal Care and Care Act. I do not see it as Mr Oellinger's fault that it is a pity to talk about it again two days after the law enters into force, because today's decision will achieve clear improvements in the field of care and care. It has been mentioned many times: The care levels 3 and 4 are also included in the support model. Self-employed caregivers are also included in the funding model. But above all, it is a major improvement that from 1. July a legal 24-hour care at home is possible. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that this can only be a first step – a first step, but in the right direction, as Federal Minister Buchinger always says. If you listen attentively to the Minister, you also know that Federal Minister Buchinger is always talking about this: The 24-hour care is a small part of the large care complex, and you still have to address a lot of topics. Of course, one also needs to talk about financing models. We also need to talk about quality assurance in the field of care and care, and we also need to talk about a training offensive. I would like to give Mr Hofer the opportunity to: 30 % right. But – and this makes me glad – Federal Minister Buchinger is the guarantee that today’s decision will not end the debate, but that we will continue to debate that we will continue to discuss, because it also sees our Minister as one of the biggest social policy challenges in the future that one will find models that will be a viable solution for the future. Our Minister Buchinger is also not afraid to think of new models of financing, even highly controversial models; he is also always putting the asset tax into play. I am also very grateful for this because I am convinced that new financing models need to be considered. In the field of care and care, you will not only get through with the 24-hour care. We also need to think about day care, about short-term care, of course also about the nursing homes and above all about the staff facilities in our nursing homes. We still have a lot of work to do in the future. I would like to address another issue because it has often been discussed today: the limit on property. You can think about this asset line as you wish. Of course you can also discuss whether she is good, whether she is bad, but above all one cannot: You can't blame Federal Minister Buchinger for creating this asset line. Especially in my federal state, in Lower Austria, where there has really been no nice ads in the newspapers, this asset limit has been on the agenda every day for many decades. As soon as a person comes to a nursing home, the property limit becomes tangible or staggering. Niederösterreich claims to the descendants of Regress. There the children, the daughters and the sons have to make contributions to the nursing homes and the country of Lower Austria immediately pledges the property as soon as a person to be cared for is transferred to a home. So no invention of Federal Minister Buchinger. Finally, I would like to thank all the people who work in care professions, and also those people who care for their families, because I think that this is a truly indispensable and very valuable contribution for the people of old age.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11583	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11604	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! The care emergency, which has only been addressed in the past... [[Calls.]] That was before the National Council election. He's been re-examinationed. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: Please go!]] Mr Oellinger, how do you explain the following? – The theme of the Parliament’s Directorate is to look after: Federal Minister Buchinger! Were you satisfied or frustrated with the previous system? – Answer: The conditions in Austria regarding care and care are basically exemplary. Now we're just making an improvement. - Quote. I wish you this, Mr Federal Minister, because we are always in favour of improvements. One thing that says that in the past we have worked well in this area, that the problem is well known to us. We have also repeatedly pointed out, especially Mrs Haubner, in her time as the Social Minister, that we will have to take more money for care, because life expectancy has increased, there will be a greater need. 85 per cent of people are cared for at home, Minister of State; we know the numbers, we do not need to repeat them again and again. It is a lot to do in this area. I hope I wish you... I do not envy you about the current debate on the limit on property, which is being held here, because, of course, different things are regulated differently in the countries. What is a bit frustrating to me and what is actually a testimonie for this federal government is that one cannot succeed in this area, where it is very unfortunate. Above all, the Federal Government should cooperate and not carry out a conflict on the back of the caregivers. The fact that this system with the asset limit also has some weaknesses which I have already mentioned here has that, in fact, those affected often have to become a social case before they get any support at all, is, in my opinion, very unfortunate like this 5 000-€ limit on savings books, cash assets and so on. It is only then that you receive support when you are practically on the minimum of existence. The second delicate point is the directives on the income limit, Mr Federal Minister. If someone lives a family, he must make this request himself and must not earn more than €2500 net. They have said that this regulation with the cap is nothing new. But I say: One should simply take this out, unravel this confusion, and not “snap out ” the caregivers or their relatives. There is no legal certainty in this area. That is also very unfortunate. I hope that we will come to a solution here, because we need a one-time increase in the care allowance by 10 percent. We wanted to valorize this during the last legislative period, but our coalition partner did not want to go along. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] - Set You're going through! Our coalition partner didn't want to go along at the time. We wanted to do this. I wish you good luck here that this will work. A permanent valorization would definitely be necessary, Mr President. The introduction of a dedicated care check to support care at home would also be necessary – the expansion of the care, the mobile services and the substation facilities as well. Above all, the support of the aid organizations and the caring relatives would be a command of the hour. That's a simple thing to do. I would like to make a brief comment on Mr Haidlmayr's comments, as far as the disabled person is concerned. I am very glad that in the last legislative period we have succeeded in setting up a disabled lawyer, as well as with 1. In January 2006, the Employment Equality Act entered into force. The disabled lawyer, Mag. Herbert Haupt, does excellent work. It is now also regulated – there is a four-party request – that the activity of the disabled lawyer will also be the content of the social reports which will be submitted every two years. Then you can read about the meaning of the disabled lawyer, about which he is addressed by people with disabilities and how people can be helped from past experience in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11663	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. You've been talking for 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11684	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Not only has Mr Oellinger noticed your listing, but I have also read it with great interest and also with great astonishment. [[The speaker holds a newspaper interview.]] What surprised me was that you only assume work contracts in the independent provision of care. If you had been advised by labour law, you would probably have been told that this would normally be free service contracts and not work contracts, because it will be permanent debt and not a goal debt relationship. Social security law and tax law do not make a big difference. While we have in the ASVG the social security status of compulsory insurance for employees-like free workers, this compulsory insurance does not apply if the service is provided for private or on the basis of a commercial certificate. That is, both if the activity is carried out on the basis of a commercial license and if it is provided without a commercial license, there is in any case a compulsory insurance under the Commercial Social Security Act – whether as a commercial self-employed person or as a so-called new self-employed person. The difference exists in labour law. Although labour law does not apply to free service contracts, labour law rules are applied which do not depend on the personal dependence of the worker. What does that mean for those concerned? – This means, for example, that in the event of a termination, the notice periods and notice dates of the General Civil Code must be observed, or that, in the case of an unfounded early resolution for an important reason, a compensation for termination is due. It makes a difference, therefore, whether one speaks of a free contract of services or a contract of work. However, I would also like to address another aspect of your support. It follows from your guidelines to support the 24-hour care as well as from § 21b of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz that there is no legal right to such support. The Directives provide that the decision of the Federal Social Office may be reviewed by the Ministry of Social Affairs for legality and effectiveness. It's a mere cane determination. Furthermore, this can-determination is not intended for the recovery of the grant by the Federal Social Office. Therefore, the Social Ministry cannot be called against the recovery by the Federal Social Office. Finally, allow me a brief reference to the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Hofer, Mr Belakovich-Jenewein. Among other things, it is a question of ensuring the right to care under constitutional law. I would remind you that we do not have fundamental social rights in the Austrian Constitution. We have liberal fundamental rights, such as property rights and freedom of employment. With social fundamental rights in the form of benefits, the problem could arise that they contradict certain liberal fundamental rights, such as property rights. It should also be noted that they are only under substantial The Constitutional Court of Justice shall examine greater difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11745	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11766	Madam President. High house! Mr. Federal Minister, I would recommend – in order to be able to judge the goodness or truthfulness of your ads – that you start the attempt to change our location and thus the perspective. Let us consider what the whole matter and debate look like about the situation of those concerned! They hear – especially those of the ÖVP, a little less those of the Social Democrats – that the fact that the proportion of older and old people in the population as a whole is increasing is causing almost apocalyptic horror visions of unfinancing – not only in the care sector, but also in the health and social field, especially in the case of pensions. What happens in old people when they pursue this discussion? Do they feel accepted? Do they feel appreciated? Do they feel assured or lifted up in the truest sense of the word? Or do they face themselves as a threat, as a threat to the state and as a burden to others? This is truly not a great feeling! Then to say that this is a step, still in the right direction, is, I think, already a little depressing, not to say, completely wrong; or one has the wrong compass and does not see the direction in which everything goes. Let's see how many people are wearing your solution now offered! There are about 400,000 care providers. About 20,000 of these require a 24-hour care plus care. That's about 5 percent, and for this 5 percent you offer a solution, and probably only the top fifth of these people will be able to afford this support again. If you say that the cost of it will be calculated at about € 100 to 110 million and it will be damn heavy and very laborious with the countries to raise this money, then I remind you that for 2007 prospective revenue was calculated by the inheritance tax of 170 million. Now I ask you: Didn't you wonder why you want to give up on these 170 million and not use them in a targeted way? It is also for another reason a solution for few: You probably know as well as I do that members of the so-called underlayer already at the age of 45 have the frequency and intensity of disabilities, such as the so-called upper layer – listen! – at the age of 75 years. That is, not old age is the problem, but social inequality. The majority of experts say that in recent years, this sheer of inequality in illness, disability, care and death has continued to open up under this policy. But you don't do anything to make this sheer close again. If you look at what your solution proposals are, then you can see calculated additional costs for care of up to €3500 – in the best case – perhaps from €1 500 to €2,000 in the case of self-employment. There it is for the caregivers or their families with additional necessary cash benefits, which are clearly above the Austrian average income! What do you say? Is that a social solution? I still remember that at the clinic where I once led a women's station, women are located who have cared for and cared for their father-in-law, their father-in-law, and then their spouses. I'll tell you: They were exhausted, they were physically and psychologically at the end. These women have saved the Republic of Austria, the countries and the municipalities millions of euros a month because they have taken over activities for which the public authorities had nothing left. There is no more money there to send their relatives in part-time care if they want to go on vacation to advise them and do burn-out help. Nothing's here! 90 percent of these women do not have their own pension and do not have their own income. There is nothing there for them, because this minimalist solution for all the other 380 000 in their own housing association no longer remains money. If you think that people who care for 128 hours – and also care for them – I have to say it correctly – that can make it optimal, then I'll tell you: They're gonna throw away the nerves, too. Care for 128 hours a demente person, a very expensive person, who, of course, has developed their characteristics in old age and does not develop gratitude and generosity every hour! What will happen then? – Do we really want caregivers to be back with the nerves so that the caregivers will suffer again and one scandal will arise after another? I don't think it makes sense to negate problems. It also makes no sense to beautify some. If you're right and there's no need for care, he's also right that he's not sitting here today. [[Abg. Dr. One: That's right, he's not sitting here!]] But he should listen to this to work on better solutions, and should not always throw beatings at you, so to speak, that you may have better thoughts – and I am very friendly and kind to you today. [[towards SPÖ]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11825	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11846	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! As a senior speaker of SPÖ, I would like to comment on the new regulation of the 24-hour care of people in need of care, who are mostly pensioners. I am really very happy and grateful that the ÖVP has finally given up its long resistance and has now agreed to the original SPÖ proposal to include care levels 3 and 4 in the new model. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, the ÖVP has prevailed!]] [[Abg. Prince: But now you have already confused a little, Mr. Cot! Stay with the truth!]] By successfully overcoming these blockades, the corresponding financial resources could now also be made available. [[Further calls at the ÖVP and the Abg. Oils.]] – No, look at the protocols and the first statements of our Minister for Social Affairs! I am personally – I admit – very sorry, of course, that, due to real political constraints and restrictions, we cannot meet the demands for an immediate valorization of the care allowance and after an increase in the share of GDP in expenditure on care from 1.1 percent to 2 percent at the moment. Unfortunately, there is still no financial room for this in the Federal budget, but also in the budgets of the federal states. In the medium and long term, the development of the age pyramid alone will not prevent us from taking over more money for an increasingly older and needy society. The current new regulations are therefore currently urgently necessary steps, but of course they will have to follow many more steps further. Now it is important that care is legally, manageable and quality guaranteed at home. The funding is now secured, as the federal government is taking over the total cost of funding this year. The countries should, of course, participate accordingly; this should also be ensured in the forthcoming financial compensatory negotiations. [[Abg. Oillinger: To a small part!]] In addition to the elderly and care homes and mobile care, it is now legally and manageable at home as a third pillar in the care landscape. In particular, Federal Minister Buchinger has now solved a problem in just five months, in which the old government has closed its eyes for seven years and thus dragged and prevented a solution. The newly introduced capital line is a requirement of the countries. We can, on the part of SPÖ, imagine an increase, but also an abolition of the capital line, but of course this can only be done in consultation with the countries. It is particularly important for the asset line that a self-inhabited home is not used as a asset. You have to tell people that you shouldn't insure them. I believe that criticism should also be formulated with due regard. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a first important step in the right direction, but of course no final, no final solution. There will therefore be much to do and improve in the next few years. But after agreeing on the 24-hour care, we will naturally have to take further measures with the expansion of substationary facilities and the extension of short-term care. We will cooperate very intensively on the part of the SPÖ Group and, of course, we will support you as much as possible, Mr Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11915	Next item is the report by Mr Huainigg. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11937	Madam President. Minister! We will decide to make substantial improvements today, and I would also like to remind you that during the last plenary session, when we presented these proposals by Vice-Chancellor Molterer, there were still very different opinions on them. But I believe that the extension of amnesty, the possibility of promoting care from the age of 3 and the promotion of self-employed care are very important suggestions for improvement, and here is an essential step towards solving the issue of care. I see a problem with the exploitation of wealth. You can't compare the care in a home with the care at home. Whoever lives in a home, the public hand, who lives at home, must provide for himself, he must make reserves for rent, for possible incidents in the apartment, and he must also care for the care, because the promotion is only part of the actual care effort. I don't think a comparison can be drawn there. There are already countries, such as Lower Austria and Vorarlberg, which have set up initiatives, and I hope that the rest of the federal states will continue to take precautions here in the interests of those concerned. The federal states have to shoulder their responsibility here. It cannot be that in the competence of the federal state only the federal government is financed. I hope that, in the course of the early financial compensatory negotiations, there will be a useful outcome for the people concerned. I have downloaded the model contract for the new care scheme from the website of the BMSK. This shows how foreign to practice is the current legal situation in the separation between care and care. The caregiver may, for example, wash the face of the caregiver, but not the hands or the feet or even the chest basket. In order to do this, the qualified nurse has to start. The caregiver must also not brush his teeth; this is also a nursing activity. While the caretaker may prepare the food and prepare it in a mouth-right manner, he must not give him the food, he must also take up the qualified specialist. – I believe that this separation between care and care is not always useful and that there is a need for regulation here. The trade union representatives of the individual professional groups should also set themselves up and, in the sense of disabled people, create framework conditions to enable holistic care and care at home. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11976	The next item is Mr Buchinger, Federal Minister. His speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e11997	Thank you very much, Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen in the House! For the time being, I would like to thank you for the wide-ranging discussion on the care issue, because I can repeat what I am convinced of, namely that the issue of “care and care” represents the new major social challenge for our country, for social security in our country and, above all, for the citizens in that country. Even though we have not found the most elegant way through the new legislation that we are adopting today, in one step – Mr Oillinger, because They speak of two steps – developing a comprehensive solution to the 24-hour care, so this may be critical. We could have found a solution a month ago. But it is crucial that it is found now and with 1. ==References== It is also crucial that it is in fact only a part of dealing with care and care problems in that country. Three weeks ago, they decided here in this House a second important part, namely, in the Sozialrechts-Amendingsgesetz 2007, the strong improvement of the pension status of caregivers by taking over pension insurance contributions to the full amount of the federal pension, from the level of care 4 of the entire service provider's contribution and the half-employee's contribution. This is a very clear, not only moral, but money-value signal to support and further promote the care and care of caregivers. Today, you set another sign by removing a care emergency, which has been closed for many years – by many political responsibilities, by social partners; however, it has been systematically looked away. It was a nursing emergency. We do not have a general care emergency in Austria, we have a well-developed system of care and care, footing on a federal care allowance – which one of my predecessors, Minister Hesoun, introduced in 1993; a real social policy milestone that the countries have joined – footing on a system of stationary, outpatient, mobile and partly already part-stationary benefits in the countries and communities. But in one area there was an emergency situation, namely in the area of 24-hour care, the round-the-clock care, the care and care at home, because this was not legally possible in Austria until 1.7. this year. This is, of course, an emergency situation for 10 000, 15 000, 20,000 families affected if they are virtually forced by themselves and the family to be cared for to satisfy an important need because of the lack of a legal opportunity. You should not underestimate this, ladies and gentlemen, just as the government does and, hopefully, the interested public: This step of legalising the 24-hour care, quality-proof and manageable, represents a very essential gap and eliminates the emergency situation in a, although small – Professor Green Forest, 20,000 you have called yourself – but for these 20,000 people, very important field. This is the performance that is being created here today with the relevant decision-making process. That's where the direction is. Today, a first step in the direction of the still existing possibilities for improvement is being taken by this government, including in coordination with countries and communities – and this needs to be improved. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] And the way is right, because what you decide here today on the proposals of the two laws of the Federal Government is that way, which in a difficult field with many different interests opens up the possibility of providing this service on the basis of existing labour rights – domestic employment law – on the basis of existing minimum wage rates, on the basis of additional, clarified, specified provisions in the trade order, on the basis of self-employed or self-employed basis. It is the first step that is actually the second step – I am right in giving Mr Oellinger – because, with support for caring relatives, a first step has already been taken three weeks ago. I would now like to address some specific criticisms in detail. This is important to me because I still believe – to my regret – that many things in the power of these two laws – Mr Donabauer has rightly acknowledged this – are still seen wrong, misunderstanding and also miscommunication. Mr Oellinger, for example, says that cheap workers are employed here. – Yes, it is true that the pay conditions, whether self-employed or self-employed, on which this house-care law and the federal care fund are based are not medium or high wage incomes, but this is linked to existing labour law bases, and it is the existing minimum wage rates that apply here self-employed. [[Abg. Oils: No one can afford it!]] It will be a trade union development – the corresponding first applications for minimum wage rates are already under way – which will also improve according to possibilities and feasibility. Another criticism was that there is no legal claim to this promotion of the 24-hour care under § 21b Bundespflegegeldsgesetz. - Yeah, that's right. There is no legal claim, but two arguments against it. On the one hand, it's not a typical thing. In many areas of benefits, outpatient, part-stationary, there is no legal claim in the countries either. We are putting ourselves in a classification here, as it is used twenty thousand times in the countries of affected persons. And you should not underestimate – and to that extent your comparison, colleague Ollinger, was an unfair comparison; there is no arbitrariness of the Minister or his services: There is a directive which was not only adopted by the Minister, by me, but which was presented in the Federal Disability Advisory Council, which criticised two points: Wealth and partial income, which has otherwise been generally welcomed, and on the basis of this Directive, will be managed. This creates security for citizens because this directive provides this transparent basis. In terms of content, Mr Oellinger, I have not heard any suggestions from you for improvement in the domestic care law or the Federal Care Act. Its only criticism was the amnesty regime, which is being extended for half a year. I heard from you a little bit that you would be in favour of extending this further. Mr Lap has also given you the right answer, because in a social and legal state, an amnesty of existing regulations can only be a short-term transitional arrangement. This can never be a permanent arrangement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] I would ask you to bear in mind, too, Mr Oellinger, that you do not give the persons concerned the wrong ideas in this amnesty arrangement. It must be stated clearly: This so-called amnesty regime affects only, exclusively, the administrative criminal law side. This means that a penalty under the ASVG or according to the Working Time Act or then, if provisions on employment have been violated, that the administrative penalty does not have to be pronounced, but the underlying civil, labour law claims are probably also not abrogated by this amnesty scheme, but they are in the background. That is to say, those who use this extended amnesty scheme have a risk that the persons concerned may sue social security legislation on the basis of an employment relationship and be subject to labour law in the context of the limitation period on paid-out wages. [[Abg. Oillinger: But I have that with the new regulation too!]] It is therefore recommended that all those concerned should not use this extended amnesty scheme, but to legalize their relationship, whether self-employed or self-employed, in other words, to dispel a commercial license or to make an application to the Landeskrankenkasse. A corresponding promotion has been made since 1. It is available on July of this year. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Hofer criticises the fact that self-employment in the house-care law is made possible and also promoted. – Yes, I say that, from the point of view of consumer protection law, from the point of view of employment law, one must exercise a certain degree of caution that this does not result in disinheritance. But we, both the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour and the Social Ministry, have done what we can to minimize these dangers with two regulations on industrial practice, on a model work contract that we have put on the Internet. It will then show the practice whether something is going to happen, which, at least, needs to be corrected. I get a copy of the law on home care, as well as the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz, on the regulations taken. Mr Hofer is right when he points out that this model work contract, which he has looked at, can be a good basis for content. Mrs Karl is wrong because this contract of work can in fact, as a contract of work, include the self-employed activity alone. The activity as a free servant is not covered by the domestic care law. If you look at it, you will see only self-employed activity and self-employed people according to the housework law. Mrs. Karl, you have also been too brief in your criticism that no recovery, complaint or review arrangements would be possible at the Ministry of Social Affairs in case of recovery. This is not possible, therefore, Mrs Colleague, because it is not necessary because recovery is a civil act which can easily be combated by civil courts, and so that this formal path is available and cannot be pursued informally through a complaint body in the ministry. – This is about this relevant information. Mr Hofer criticises, as do many others in this House, but also in the public, the exploitation of wealth. Here you have to see that, although there is a difference in content, whether a person as a person in need of care is in need of hospital care or a care at home by means of 24-hour care, there is no difference between the purpose of both forms of care, because both types of care are basically long-term and have full care and care for the content; unlike mobile, outpatient care in the countries which are limited by 30 to 100 hours hours per hour. This outpatient care in the countries is not covered by the national legislation. There is a fixed capital limit for full care in all countries; moreover, in Lower Austria. ==References== In July, “only” – under quotations – the asset limit is currently raised from € 5 000 to € 10 000. But there are limits of wealth in all federal states, the lowest is in Carinthia with 3 300 €, the highest so far in Upper Austria with 7 300 €, in Lower Austria it is 10 000 €, and the value of 5 000 €, which we have set in agreement with the countries, is the attempt to orient in about the middle. On Friday last week, the Landessocial conference was held in Velden am Wörthersee, where I was invited and participated – if I am invited by national representatives, I also accept this invitation; this to the colleagues from the ÖVP – and we have jointly decided that we should enter into a dialogue by the end of the year, as at the same time in the area of 24-hour care and the stationary care, this limit could be discussed and at any rate raised. If the criticism at the property limit – whether stationary or in the 24-hour care – is formulated in such a way that it punishes self-prudential care, the exact opposite is true! The sense of self-sufficiency is indeed to provide for a situation in which I need it, and if I need it then the recovery is also the right means. The disparity between the level of support for self-employed and self-employed care is an artefact. On the contrary! It is prohibited by constitutional law to treat inequalities in the same way. If we were to promote independent activity and self-employed activity the same way, we would treat inequalities the same way. The inequality lies in the fact that in the case of self-employed care, at least in the first two years of work, social security per person is not limited to a maximum of € 140 per month, whereas in the case of self-employed work, 15 salaries according to the minimum wage rate are about € 1 000 to € 1 400. Different loads are also to be tolerated by a different level of funding. Mrs. Haidlmayr, if you count €9,600 a year for the self-employed or €2,890 a year for the self-employed model as a ‘biter grant’, then, I believe, you are far away from the realities of the lives of those people who have a need for public support. More than €9600 a year are “bitter aid”. This covers about 70 percent to 80 percent of social security costs. And if the person concerned, for example because there is a family payment or an income indicating a tax benefit, asserts these costs, which are now legally paid costs for the 24-hour care also tax-law – which I can only recommend to each person – then it may even be that the costs of legal care are now lower than for illegal care. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I'll finish. – Mr Neubauer reiterates the proposal to introduce the Danish model, where almost 2% of the gross domestic product is used for care and care, and believes that the increase would represent 0.9 percent compared to the current situation. – You are right, Mr Neubauer, but you should also say that this 0.9 percent is about €2.3 billion a year. Here so fluffy as an alternative to 24-hour care, which you decide today to propose this model at an annual cost of € 2.3 billion, which is a bit beyond possible realization. I recognise that this can be a future project – as part of a total financing, for example through the asset taxation that has already been debated here. But to decide now, in the short term, as an alternative to 24-hour care, was to exchange essentials with long-term possibilities, and this, Mr Neubauer, usually goes backwards. Mr Huainigg pointed out that there are problems in demarcating care and care. I think he's right. In practice, these problems are constantly being complained about, and I see them too. The revision of the Health and Occupational Care Act, which is under the responsibility of Mrs. Health Minister Kdolsky, would be a possibility – the only possibility – to remedy how these strict professional regulations, which can actually hinder transitions. But Mr Huainigg probably knows just as well as we all here in the hall, what a difficult undertaking it will be to bring about a corresponding change in this CSF regulation. The problem is correctly recognized – the solution will probably be lengthy. I would very much like to support Mrs Kdolsky. In conclusion: I understand when the opposition here in the High House is looking for and pointing out the critical points of government legislation. This is not only the right of opposition, it is the duty of opposition. But I would also ask you, with a perhaps not quite as sharp, but still a little more intense eye, to look at what the two government parties, with these two legislative proposals, create in actual, real improvements for many thousands of people in this country. They are also invited to participate in the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12105	The next speaker was Mrs Riener. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12127	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The extension of the care transition law has triggered a number of discussions. I welcome the extension, however, since we are still a little lagging behind in communication. Many people are not aware of what is currently to be done. The housekeeping law and the amendment to the Federal Care Act apply from 1 January. July, but communication is not so far advanced that everyone really knows each other. Federal Minister Buchinger, you have in committee Your concern is that by this extension you cannot get real figures for the need for promotion. – I am convinced that your concern is unfounded, because the people in Austria need the money, and they will take care of this money as soon as possible and take advantage of it. At the same time, however, they will also be supported by the NGOs and, I am convinced, by all the senior associations in order to reach this funding. If you listen to the population, you notice that there are still a lot of uncertainties and concerns. All of us here in this House, all of us, have a lot of things to do here to provide safety. The inclusion of Stages 3 and 4 and the self-employed in the promotion opportunities is another step. But there are still some difficulties. We still have a lot to do in conjunction with the care and care of the federal government, countries and communities; You already cut it. So many things are not yet quite clear, I think there have been some mistakes. For example, 20 percent of the care allowance is granted to caregivers when they are housed in nursing homes. But if social assistance associations pay, the federal government retains up to 10 percent of the level 3 of these 20 percent. I would like to ask you, Minister of State: What to do You with this part of the federal care allowance? I also believe that these 20 percent are included in the social assistance calculation. I believe that these 20 percent of the federal care allowance, which should actually be given to those concerned who are available as pocket money, affect the calculation of social assistance rights. We should consider more precisely whether the Länder can recover something about the Regress if they are paid out by the Bundespflegegeldgesetz. – I don’t think that’s right. In this respect, greater transparency and clear guidelines. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, I ask you to intervene on your Social Democratic Councils in order to achieve equal conditions for all Austrians; Keywords Regress. Our Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer will contribute to the financial compensation of the Seine – for the benefit of the needy and their relatives in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12175	The next speaker was Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes of time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12196	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! These applications contain important measures and improvements for the people in need of care and, of course, for the caregivers. I would just like to make three brief comments. Point one: the extension of the Amnesty regime by half a year. The most important thing in this context is, I believe that there is security for the people concerned. The matter is very complex, and many things have been unfortunately also broken down in recent times and presented worse than it is; especially in the election campaign. Point two: the extension of care promotion to levels 3 and 4, in particular for care at home. This is a special concern to me: support for care at home for people in need of care as well as for the caring families. This law provides for the possibility that there will be subsidies in addition to the care allowance for the 24-hour care; although at different levels and with the distinction between self-employed and employees. Also, the social institutions that already carry out mobile care and care – and this should not be ignored in the course of this discussion: we have a functioning system in mobile care and care – are included in these funding guidelines. As a Red Cross employee, this is a very special concern to me. My final point is, of course, financing, including future financing from 2008 onwards, if you want to say so. I don't think we got here at the end of the flag rod. Minister of Finance Molterer will endeavour to achieve acceptable results in the financial compensatory negotiations. The way with these applications is right. The road is still a bit bumpy, the black asphalt is still missing, but this too will come.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12236	The next item is Mrs Grander. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12257	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The current law regarding the assessment of persons in need of care within the framework of the Bundespflegegeldsgesetz has contradictions and is therefore to be amended from the professional point of view of the elevated service for health and health care. At present, assessment of the care effort at all seven stages of care is possible only for the doctors. However, this is contrary to the professional image of the elevated health and health care service. The Bundespflegegeldgesetz comprises care process-oriented, care-indicated measures, which typically belong in the field of health and health care, partly in the co-responsible area, in the sense of the professional image of the elevated service for health and health care. Here's a replica: If I have a job, of course there are also liability. The caregivers have also offered to carry out a specific care advice at the same time as the review, so that care providers and family members are given the opportunity to handle the often very difficult situation in a positive manner. The assessment of the need for care and the classification of the care allowance must also be made possible in the future by nursing experts. I would like to make it clear here that it simply needs care diagnosis for the classification of care needs and not medical diagnosis. That's why I think that's what I'm talking about. It is necessary to change the law on care benefits in relation to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12296	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Aubauer. She too wants to speak for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12318	Madam President. Minister! High house! Appreciate members of the government! I see many interested older listeners at the gallery. And you, very dear listeners, have now followed this debate, perhaps also worry, so I would like to say quite clearly: In Austria, every person has the right to good care if he needs such a one. What is the concrete positive that we can offer to those concerned today? First: If you are already using the so-called illegal caregivers or caregivers, you do not have to worry because by the end of 2007 the amnesty scheme will be extended. And I would even like to encourage this amnesty scheme, if possible, to be extended by the end of 2008. In fact, it is important to frighten those concerned. The second positive point is: There are new legal models of 24-hour care at home. These models bring benefits, you can choose between self-employed and employed caregivers. There is also financial support for this. That's a good start. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, the only person entitled to support is the one who has no more than €5,000 in cash, simply said. Mr Buchinger, you have already said today that you do not have much joy with criticism of it. Nevertheless, I would like to appeal to you to reconsider this border. Why? – An example: Two couples. One of them always makes a vacation, spends all the money, doesn't have to pay for the care later. The other couple saves a lifetime, but then they have to pay for the care with their own money. Mr. Minister, is that fair? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Kickl: Send the appeal to the heads of state!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: That's a pretty good thing to do!]] I'm confident: We will take this first good step further good steps. And, Minister, we wish for one thing: good information, which is also available to those concerned and which is so understandable that anyone can deal with it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12377	Once again, Mr Buchinger, Federal Minister, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12399	Madam President. High house! I would like to comment briefly on two questions or comments. First of all, to the appeal of the estimated colleague Aubauer to rethink the asset limit of € 5 000: I will be happy to do this and will discuss it with Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance Molterer, because, as you know, Mr Molterer has said, he is in this respect with the Minister of Social Affairs. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Rare enough!]] Perhaps we can deal with this together again and think about it again. Second, on the pension contribution of the federal government according to § 13 Bundespflegegeldsgesetz: In this respect, Mrs Riener's question was that of what the Social Ministry is doing with the amounts resulting from the stationary care of the countries and communities. Unfortunately, there is nothing going back here, Mrs Colleague, because these amounts are already deducted when budgeting, when it comes to instructions. It is in about €50 million, and it saves itself, if you like, the Minister of Finance or come to bear at the Federal Estimate already in the payout. The legal basis for this – because you doubt that the law is in conformity – is in the 1993 Article-15a agreement. That was part of the total package. This was challenged by the Land of Upper Austria three years ago at the Constitutional Court, but it has been recognized as a constitutional form.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12435	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. We first reach the vote on the draft federal law, which amends the care transition law, including the title and receipt in 187 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. In turn, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give them a sign on this issue. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Courts, colleagues and colleagues on insufficient social and legal protection for the caregivers. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. Furthermore, we reach the vote on the draft federal law which amends the Bundespflegegeldgesetz and the Federal Law on the Approval of the Federal Estimate for the year 2007, in 188 of the Supplements. There is a motion for an amendment tabled by Mr Mag. Mr Lap, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. In view of the fact that only one request has been made, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt in the version of the amendment tabled by the honourable Member. Lap, Amon, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to this draft law to give a sign on this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, colleagues and colleagues on financial security of care and care for people in need of care. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall also vote on the request from the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs to take note of his report 189 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this request for a corresponding sign. - That's the majority. It's accepted. Finally, we shall vote on the resolution on the annual report on the activities of the defendant to the National Council and to the Federal Council on the Committee's report 190 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. The resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 26.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Haidlmayr, colleagues, on the annual report on the activities of the defendant to the National Council and the Federal Council. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[12:50:51]] 5. Point Report of the Committee on Labour and Social Affairs on the Government Template (141 d.a._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Law on Working Time, the Labour Peace Act and the Land Arbeitsgesetz 1984 (191 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12604	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Mag. Honey. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12631	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This item on the agenda is about amending the law on working time. “Worktime Flexibility Act” is called it by you, it is also debated in public. But what is really behind it? On the one hand, it is about increasing normal working time to 10 hours per day. On the other hand, it is also about increasing the maximum working time to 12 hours a day, to 60 hours a week, and the whole thing in a piece for eight weeks. That means: 60-hour week, 60-hour week, 60-hour week, and this can be repeated eight times. Such a block can then be repeated once again, a total of three times a year. In other words, it is allowed to work 24 weeks a week for 60 hours a week. That's a lot, that's a lot, and that's very strenuous. Mr Schopf referred to this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. It is not true that now almost all have to work 60 hours immediately. I have to say: Thank God it's not like that! But there will be many who will be concerned, because your draft will also change the regulatory level where such provisions can be implemented in the future. One goes away from the collective agreement, because in the future it is also possible to make such arrangements at the operational level. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] That's right! Nevertheless: the operational level! They are hoping to strengthen the operational level – that may be – but in addition, they also allow in all those establishments, where there are no works council structures, that such arrangements can be made in a single contract. Ladies and gentlemen, 14 percent of all Austrian companies have works council structures. That is, only 55 percent of all Austrian self-employed workers are represented by works councils. In other words, there is a fairly large part that will be left alone in such individual negotiations in the attempt to enforce its interests towards the service provider. For this law of working time is certainly not directly in the interests of workers. This flexibility of working time is at the expense of workers. It is certainly not in the interests of the workers when it is increasingly about risking their health through overlong working hours. But that is precisely what the Chamber of Doctors of Vienna fears in its opinion on this law. The Chamber of Physicians Vienna clearly speaks of a significant increase in the risk of accidents, of a significant increase in the risk of disease. We also have studies from Germany that say, of course, that the accident risk increases at the end of longer working hours. That means: An extension of working time with the appropriate health risks simply cannot be in the interests of workers! Interesting in this is a small detail: The ÖGB has still known in January what the interest of workers is, namely a reduction in working time, and has decided to do so at its congress. In January, a reduction of working time to 35 hours was decided at the ÖGB Congress. But now the union agrees with this package. I think that's an interesting change of mind. But that is the new spirit of the Grand Coalitionary Social Partnership! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, I would like to refer to the 25 percent increase in added employment in part-time employment. Yes, 25 percent supplement, that's something good, that's better than what we've got now. We do not have any supplements now. But – and there is already a big “but” – the part-time workers remain at a disadvantage even in the case of a 25 percent supplement. And you know exactly how I know that 80 percent of women working part-time are women. That means at the end of the day: This scheme also shows that mainly part-time women remain disadvantaged to full-time men. If you say that this 25 percent supplement is such a big step, I have to tell you: When it comes to the disadvantage of women, I am simply not ready to accept any tiny progress as the big step! Unfortunately, no! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We want equality, and we want it more offensive than you do on this point. [[Abg. Scheibner: Could you describe this to us?]] We also demand a 50 percent supplement for part-time workers, and we do not want to have a three-month calculation period, the final result is that the supplement will never be felt concretely monetary. We want a calculation period of one month. At the end of the month, it will be clear and clear. That seemed to us to be a fair solution. I would therefore like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Even if you agreed to this amendment, the content of this Working Time Act would still be mainly related to the costs of workers. It is a pity that there is the agreement of the trade union that there will be a SPÖ decision. Damage, damage, damage!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12723	The motion for a resolution by the honourable Members, friends and friends is properly submitted, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12777	The next item is Mrs Csörgits' speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12798	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! As my previous speaker said, this amendment to the Working Time Act is an agreement of the social partners. And I am in favour of this agreement by the social partners because, unlike you, I am very happy that it has succeeded in achieving this part-time supplement for part-time workers. And if you – as I am – are used to negotiating social partners as well, then you know very well that an agreement is due to agreeing with the partner. And the entrepreneurs had quite different ideas and did not want to add these part-time hours at all. We would have liked to have more. We have agreed in the middle, and I think this is an excellent determination, because for the first time it has succeeded that now also part-time workers who spend over a period of three months overtime or overtime, then get paid. This will especially help women who will feel it in their wallets. And it is also a first important, right step in the direction that not more part-time jobs are created and that full-time jobs are no longer divided and reduced. That is why I am in favour of this agreement and I am very proud of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, I would also like to point out the fact that, interestingly, this has not been said in your speech, there is also an excellent improvement in the context of the penalties in this new law, in that the first time in the repeat case will be an increase of €72 to € 145. This will help workers to avoid being exploited by unreasonable employers; and for these unreasonable employers, it is also a barrier to the behaviour of employers who are responsible for the behaviour of employers. we have complied with the laws. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] What will also be the case in the future is that if there is more than 20 percent exceed the maximum daily or weekly working time, there will be a penalty framework of € 218 to €3 600. What is quite striking and a very special improvement: It is punished for the first time per employee or per employee, and not standard. – I think that was an excellent compromise where the social partners simply did excellent work. What else is in this law? – It includes a large number of improvements related to the flexibility of employers, but above all also to workers. There is the possibility of getting faster into longer blocks of leisure. For example, it has been possible to spend the four-day week – i.e. four times ten hours – in businesses: where a works council has been elected, with an operating agreement; where no works council has been elected, on the basis of a single service agreement between the employer and the individual employee. As you have previously criticized the fact that so few works councils have been elected, I can cordially invite everyone to choose works councils! From five employees you can choose works councils. They are a good tool to achieve a balance of interests between entrepreneurs and employees. In addition, this law also includes improvements in relation to the smooth-time schemes. On this occasion I would also like to refer to criticism in connection with the increase in the maximum daily working time to 12 hours or the increase in the maximum weekly working time to 60 hours: This agreement can only be concluded for eight weeks, and a two-week break must be held – and there is also a need for an operating agreement. What is also very important to me in this regard is the fact that this law is a change in legal time, but not a reduction in overtime! This is always misrepresented in the public. All around, I think it is a good agreement, where many of the provisions that have already been and have been adopted in the individual businesses have been attributed to a legal standard, and I thank the social partners very much for their work.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12869	The next speaker is Mr Kickl. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12890	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard a lot and very detailed about broken electoral promises today. Much has already been worked on, but it is, as was not otherwise expected, of course, far from everything that is to be said in this area. And so it is no wonder that, basically, we do not experience much more than what we have already had in the field of care and in other discussions today in this subject, which we are now entering into this debate. Perhaps one could have heard and said in Horaz, who was not exactly equipped with democratic experience: Many promises weaken confidence! – Once again this sentence has confirmed itself. That, ladies and gentlemen, what the SPÖ has in truth forgotten or suppressed in a very short time – you can now discuss it; it will probably be a mixture of both – relativizes the one or other gap of memory that has been strongly discussed in this House in the past and above all from the SPÖ. The SPÖ has won the election, it has lost the coalition negotiations, and under the rule remains that, in the area of employee policy, the cold spirit of the ÖVP continues to pass through the country. So why, ladies and gentlemen, should it really be different on the question of working time? Whoever may have had the tender hope that it might be so that in the case of these many crashers, who have been there, the SPÖ will somehow get even stronger, that it may go into itself and start a thought process, he has also been taught here a better one. You can't be so small at all that you can't bend down a bit further to go under the yoke of the ÖVP. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, there have also been times here in the House – I admit they have been a little longer – in which the SPÖ in its formal strong position, which it has – but also there would probably be more conjunctive: would have been – also equipped with a strong position in terms of content and the SPÖ was a heavy weight. But this has changed to a lightweight. Similarly, there have been times in this House – and there have been times in the SPÖ – in which the trade union, the workers' representatives for their part, were a heavy weight. But they too have been put together to a lightweight in the meantime. [[Abg. Parnigoni:... but only half!]] It's just that in recent months we have had to experience a shift, an improper shift, I want to say: Just as, so to speak, within the SPÖ of the trade union wings has been downgraded, within this government the SPÖ has been demolitioned. And what comes out then, we know that enough. It may already be, ladies and gentlemen, that the motto you issued a few months ago in order to get the head out of the loop by saying that trade union officials are no longer allowed to enter this House at all, not only for people – who have proved to have a little dirt on the plug or a lot of dirt on the stick – but also for the content, or relevant content, to be locked out. In other words, it is not really understandable that the SPÖ is now making itself a advocate for a policy which is essentially opposed to the interests of workers, I almost want to say, diametrically. – We did not expect anything else from the ÖVP, but your behavior, on the sides of the SPÖ, is at least surprising. Nor does it change anything at all, ladies and gentlemen, if you now formulate the term “flexibilization” “neudeutsche” and refer to “flexicurity”. This is a new name with the old content, and if you look at it in detail as regards this law, you have to say: The content is in fact pure “flexi” – at the expense of the workers – and the “curity”, that is, what remains of the “security” is the paint you need for sale so that anyone can swallow this bitter pill in the future. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, in principle you are not serving Austrian workers by this law, but are thus fulfilling the needs of large corporations. This is precisely what it is all about – because wherever these peaks of utilization occur, as they occur in large businesses, are not given to that extent, the train goes in a different direction, namely, in the direction of part-time. And what is decided here will continue to drive this unwholesome development. That is impotent, that is powerless, that is juicy, what has been presented here, and basically it is a capitulation to the spirit of neoliberalism, and not what we would have expected of you, what the Austrians would have expected of you, that at some point you would come here, sit down and say: [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Until here and no further!, for man is also something other than a work machine, he has a value in himself. That's how we at least see the liberals. It can't be that you're basically all just going to subvert the business needs of some less and people like Marionettes should be pushed back and forth with flexibilization models, in which you no longer know what's going on in three months, and so on. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is not the case that this debate is being held for the first time – even here in this room. It's not like that! I can point to an example – one can use it in the past – which is already a little further away. Here in this hall there was a discussion about flexibilisation, about the advantages and disadvantages of flexibilization in trade. At that time, a high-ranking SPÖ representative – who was still sitting in the first row until recently, until he got house ban – said – I quote: “You see... that flexibilization occurs, which does not correspond to the wishes of the persons concerned, because it is a trend that part-time work becomes normal work – with less income, with which you can usually not get along as a single person. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] “ The honourable Member, who gave this to himself from this speaker’s desk at the time, was the comrade. I know he fell into displeasure as a person, but that you accepted all the content with it, that's mysterious to me. There is also a second part: We have always thought – and actually it is not a question of approaching this thought experiment as well – that the SPÖ has been a party that supports the reduction of working time – that was always the model that we say: if we have problems with work, then we must shorten working time, so that we have full employment – for all these things. [[Abg. Shopf: Still!]] [[Abg. Mr. Kickl, still!]] I have also looked at what has been the case in the past and what has been said, in the context of measures which have been taken to extend employment times. At that time the same one said: "He who believes he can deal with the European employment situation by leaving the discussion on the reduction of working time on the left is certainly on the wrong path. There are enough models at European level, but also at Austrian level, to show that a combination of the reduction of working time with other forms of employment and desirable employment." Today, with the law you are presenting to us here and in the face of which you proudly put yourself in the chest, you are doing the exact opposite of what was then the SPÖ doctrine. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: The Austrian workers do not really like what is being decided here today! To claim that is a strong piece – but we have already experienced a lot of strong pieces. What you are doing in truth here is to deliver something with which perhaps certain ladies and gentlemen in the EU, and, of course, probably, Mr Monti, Commissioner for Competition, have the greatest joy – that is it! –: Expanding working time, basically less income for more work, a pre-driver of the wage difference between poor and rich – all these are the things that it is about. This is a step towards an overall strategy against which you are not taking part, but which you are already in, and which the next steps are already announced: Then we widen out the opening hours, then ends with the Sunday rest, then we do away with a few more holidays – and under the rule, man remains as something that is reduced to the factor work. This does not correspond to our liberal human image, and therefore there is no consent from us – which will not surprise you – either.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e12999	The next speaker is Mr Schopf. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13020	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make a clear statement at the beginning of my speech. The clarification is that this decision will not extend working time, nor will it be possible to extend working time. [[Abg. Kickl: But the possibility!]] – There is a legal regulation on working time, and this revision does not extend it. Why am I making this clarification? – Because, due to various representations, it is always tried to transfer it medially so that the economy succeeded in deciding on an extension with this innovation. [[Abg. Oils: Everyone understands it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! This innovation will allow additional flexibilization measures to be introduced in the field of working time. [[Abg. Rosary: Without overtime!]] But these flexibilisation possibilities exist only then – one of my previous speakers has rightly said it – if the collective contracting parties agree on this possibility and, secondly, if in those establishments where a works council organisation exists, an agreement is reached in the form of an operating agreement. Only in these cases will there be the possibility of such new flexibilisation possibilities being created. Flexibility is a problem in many areas – I am right for you. We must be careful in the area of flexibility that it will not be a one-way road. It must not be so – and the trade unions are sure to do so – that it will reduce the income of employees, workers and workers. However, there are also professional groups – I am thinking of the assembly workers – who are happy that they have the opportunity to work up to ten hours a day from now on. We have many colleagues who are not only 20 kilometres away from the farm but who work 100, 300 or 500 kilometres away. It is therefore necessary and important for us to be able to make arrangements in the direction of the four-day week. We do not have the legal opportunity to do so in many areas today. With this innovation this will be possible. A previous speaker, Mr Csörgits, spoke about the importance and importance of the 25 per cent award for part-time workers, if the necessary time balance is not possible – I say so too, then there is this supplement. [[Abg. Kickl: But this is still cheaper than the overtime supplement for full-time employment!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Until now – and this is certain – there is no overtime supplement for part-time workers. Therefore, a 25 percent supplement for significants is better than the current situation. I do not want to hide what Mr Schatz has said as the first speaker and it is also a problem that it is also decided by this innovation that in establishments where there are no works council organisations – and it is right, unfortunately, there are still such enterprises, especially among the micro and micro-enterprises – in the future there is the possibility of agreeing a number – not all but a number – of working time arrangements in the form of individual contracts. This is certainly a problem or could become a problem. We are therefore jointly invited to observe this closely. And I think if we realize together that if we feel together that the interests of workers and workers in this area come under the wheels, we are called upon to renovate this law as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13096	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13118	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! As regards the revision of the Working Time Act, the flexibilization of legal working time: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you go here and say that it is not an extension of working time, I would point out: It is possible to have a longer working time in a shorter framework – that is what it is! You can't cheat on that! It is possible to work between 10 and 12 hours a day in the future, and 60 hours a week. [[Abg. Riepl: But with overtime supplement! For more money!]] This was so far only possible with a derogation in the work of the decade. That's it! And as far as the four-day week is concerned, it has been possible so far, because 10 hours a day you have already been able to work. That was possible so far! [[Abg. Shopf:... 9 hours!]] - Of course! And with regard to the 25 percent supplement in part-time employment, which you are so delighted with: This one has been bought cheaply from you from the economy, I must tell you – otherwise you can't interpret it – because within a quarter, i.e. three months, it can be compensated for. 25 percent for more work, which is a little more, but no one will have anything of it. That's the fact! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] The following is: What about shift work up to 12 hours a day? If you can work 12 hours, you only need two layers, and the third layer falls away. – These are certain dangers that simply cannot be left in space. It is also always stressed that this is a social partners agreement. – Well, certain social partners have negotiated this, but I do not understand what they have negotiated that way – where the Chamber of Labour is strictly opposed! I received a copy from the Chamber of Labour, to which it was to be found that it did not agree with this regulation, and the Chamber of Labour warns against the fact that consideration of the interests of workers and employers is not at all balanced, and it warns of a national economic damage. As far as the economic outlook is concerned, there are advantages – that is not a question – but economic disadvantages. The Chamber of Labour warns that there will be an increase in accidents at work and occupational diseases, that there will be sickness-related downtimes – in this respect there are AUVA statistics – that there will be more early retirements in the future, invalidity, inability to work, damage to third parties by overtired workers and the suffering associated with the accidents at work. This is referred to by the Chamber of Labour. I know that the Chamber of Labour is one of the social partners. - It's gone! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] The trade union is now so weak, Mr Cot, that it does not make any more sense at all that it is already falling into the trap! That's the truth. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] You have also been fully pulled over the table in this area! You just have to admit that. I mean, it's just crazy! Rather, they should be committed to reducing the cost of the labour factor, reducing the overtime surcharges tax-free at a time of the high economy we have taken care of in our responsibility as a government party. Now you're the government party, but you don't make sure people have something of it. Increases in wages are very, very low – that's in every newspaper – and the entrepreneurial profits are just so overturning! That's where you have to put the lever on! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Here you go and make a minimum wage of € 1,000. Yeah, I'm not laughing! 1 000 € gross, that's 830 € net, and by the way, there's a minimum guarantee of 726 €, which is a difference of 104 € – nobody's going to work! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] That's the truth: Nobody's going to work. Equal pay for equal work: Turn it over to the same wage for the same work! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shopf.]] The social partners are here for this. When I listen to these things in the whole minimum wage story: Leitel says the economy has not been easy. Did he have tears in his eyes? – He laughed down one thing, that was all! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Don't be so upset!]] And Kalina, your colleague from the union, says: another step to secure low income. – If the union continues to work like this, then “Pfiat di God” for the workers! Then we'll have to get a little stronger to use more weight for them.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13227	Mr Bartenstein spoke from the government bank. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13248	Mr President. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Working time flexibility – I'll be right back to that. Mr Dolinschek, it is not that way, of course. If we have achieved the goal of a minimum guarantee of € 726, then that means first of all: before social security contributions. Secondly, this also means, of course, that a social emergency must have occurred, social need: A social case can then claim this minimum guarantee. [[Abg. Dolinschek: Work must pay off, Minister of State!]] Apart from the fact that the reality of social assistance in the countries already results in a total of € 726 per month, but not because of a uniform performance, money and clothing and apartment are often thrown together. But, I think, the success of the social partners agreement – a minimum wage for Austrians from 1.1.2009 – should not be underestimated, especially for this reason, [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] Ladies and gentlemen: We have also achieved in Austria through the merits of the last, I say almost decades that we are saving ourselves a German discussion. We have fully transposed the Entendment Directive. Finally, on the basis of the member's decision, we continue to have compulsory membership in the chambers, which means that employers, as in Germany, cannot opt out of collective agreements. They are also bound by collective agreements in Austria as mandatory members of their Chamber. That is, to cut down minimum wages in Austria, which is less easy in the case of Weitem than in Germany. That's why it's a very reasonable system. In reality, therefore, we did not have to have the discussion “Minimum wage by collective contract and social partners or by law?” We have received them in a reasonable way through the collective treaty and social partners. This agreement is therefore very, very, very much in the sense of Austria's location. I do not want to have a minimum wage discussion here in the House every year and I would like to say that I do not want to have a minimum wage discussion here in the House. This can all be better done by the social partners, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Now on the subject of working time flexibility: Dear colleague Dolinschek, I was at the General Meeting, at the Annual General Meeting of the Federal Labour Chamber in Graz. There it seemed to me to be very clear that the Federal Chamber of Labour is behind this social partners' package. Everything else would be illogical. Looks like: Unfortunately, Mrs Schatz is no longer in the hall, but I already like her quote “the new spirit of the great coalition of social partners”! For it was very, very important for the positive conclusion of the government negotiations that the social partners have provided comprehensive input here, including on other issues, but above all on the subject of working time flexibility. As Minister of Labour, I have been a little bit of a burnt child since 2000, because I have seen that only on a political level, even on the basis of a majority in the National Council, this issue of working time flexibility could not be implemented, at least not as the location of Austria needed. The consensus of the social partners makes this possible. It is a comprehensive package, and as Mr Schopf has already said, this cannot be seen unilaterally. There are many elements that are very likely to reflect the interests of workers, just as there are elements that tend to give rise to the interests of employers. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Twelve hours at work, that's not everyone's/every woman's business. This will very often depend on the workplace. If this is done in the office with a screen, then this will be one; if the difficult precision work is, then it will probably not be possible, neither in the interests of the worker's work nor in the interests of the safety of the worker. But if on the other hand these are automated lines, where work de facto consists of monitoring a line, a machine, then the possibility will exist. Accordingly, the following shall apply: There, where it is necessary, where either the works council or the occupational physician or the occupational physician says it goes; and if it is not possible, it will not be possible. Longer leisure periods: Of course, a longer leisure block is possible for a normal working time of 10 hours. Of course, sliding time is also a work-like development, which is good. People want to slide because they have some self-determined working time. Mr Schopf has rightly referred to the fact that many workers wish for the four-day week. I come from Styria and am not rarely on my way in one direction or another along with thousands or tens of thousands of commuters from Styria or from Burgenland to Vienna. It is good that you can do four-day weeks without a collective agreement in the future and therefore also meet the workers in their interest! The opening of holidays: How often it was difficult to work on Christmas and New Year on a day-to-day basis! This will be easier in the future. I would also not underestimate the issue of part-time. Part-time is by no means what Mr Kickl intends to make of it; he says: The train goes toward part-time; an unpleasant development! – Part-time is important, part-time is good. In most cases, parttime is in the interests of workers and female workers; I know that this is mostly a female issue. However, where part-time work is threatened to be carried out in full-time, the employer will in future have a stronger incentive than ever to make a full-time job out of a part-time job. That's in our interest! It has not been true since the beginning of this millennium that the increase in jobs has been the increase in part-time jobs in particular. Statistical data harden that last year and only quite this year the clear majority of newly created jobs are full-time jobs again. I'll greet you. I believe that it must be a general line of our concept of "good work", that the permanent full-time job should in turn be the rule, the rule especially for our young people entering the labour market, but that if there is this indefinite full-time job, one can also demand a piece of flexibility of workers to allow businesses to react to job fluctuations. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very balanced package. I've already made it clear: Without the social partners, it would not have been possible! That's why, Mrs Mag. Honey – now you're back in the hall – again your quote: “This is the new spirit of the great coalitional social partners.” If it continues in the tone, I can only say: Bravo, social partners! You work for the location Austria! Whether this is an agreement between the social partners or, as was said in a promise, a social partners' association, I would like to be very generous to the opposition. The result counts, and this is really an excellent package for the location Austria, which can be seen across Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13323	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13344	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Flexibility means a change for many workers and often includes fear of change. We must, however, take this fear completely and surely with our workers. The aim of this law is to ensure existing employment conditions and, of course, to be able to react more flexiblely to changes in utilization in companies. However, we must always include the health aspect, because the health safety must and must be in the foreground. Mr Dolinschek has indeed, let us say, raised himself properly. I would also like to mention that my colleague Werner Amon has tabled an independent motion for a resolution – and I hope that everyone in the committee will go along with it – which I would like to quote now: “... after the end of 2 years an evaluation will be carried out in order to see whether the possibility of the necessary occupational medical advice has been proven by each occupational physician or whether a special authorisation to carry out such an opinion seems useful.” I think that we can deal with this in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, and I am glad to see the opposition coming along. I would like to mention once again – which has been mentioned again and again – that part-time employment is also upgraded with this innovation. I think that this is a good signal, also towards reconciliation of work and family for mothers as well as for fathers, and that this must also be seen as an opportunity to work part-time. We all argue that efforts should be made to get back into full employment in order to have a timely insurance towards retirement. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Once you have to take a step back to move forward!]] I think that this package of working time flexibility is a step that we can all go along with. It surprises me that the opposition, especially the Greens and the BZÖ, does not go with this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13392	Mr Oellinger is the next speaker. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13414	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs Csörgits, I have learned a lot through the debate so far – thank you, Mr Federal Minister, thank you, Mr Csörgits! I'll explain for a moment. Federal Minister Bartenstein says that the social partners can do better; Quote Bartenstein. – Yes, compared with this federal government, this sentence is, in itself, safe first of all. - That's one. The second is: Of course, the cunning of this sentence, Mr Federal Minister, is also clear to me. Whenever the government parties are somewhat unpleasant, the social partners will make efforts. Mr Federal Minister, don't be angry with me. This should be mentioned in connection with the minimum wage, although for the first time in 2003, at government level – then the ÖVP-FPÖ-BZÖ government – the €1,000 effort has been made and the social partners have also been handed over as hot potatoes, and it now emerges that in 2009, we will still not have reached €1,000 for all employees, but in 2009, seven years after that, €7 000, where is the strength of the social partners? Where? 1 000 €! We speak of 1 000 € gross and nothing else. Okay, once again to you, Minister of State: I find it interesting that you sit there completely relaxed, you can observe that. It's got something for itself. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: How is he supposed to sit there?]] In this case, the Minister of Economic Affairs has once again won over the Minister of Labour. The Minister of Labour would actually have the obligation to reduce the number of accidents at work. Now you know – there is also an appropriate EU recommendation to be implemented sometime – that the number of accidents at work should be reduced by 25 percent by 2015 or 2012. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Yes, and?]] Not: Let's go! – Well, then and then, colleague Mitterlehner! Labour accidents have not fallen in recent years, although they are actually – well! – should have gone back, dramatically, because this actually allows the use of modern technologies. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: The reporting behaviour has changed!]] We stagnate, or we stay at the same time in the case of accidents at work. 25 percent reduction, that's a huge effort! If, on the other hand, working hours are extended, this is certainly also the most secure programme that does not reduce the number of accidents at work, but needs to become more. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Don't expand, they're getting more flexible!]] Of course! Even if it only applies for a limited period of time: The load on humans is different at 8 hours than it is at 12 hours. Of course, you know that, and that's why the working day has been shortened! That was the historical success of the workers' movement, that one has reduced the working day, also in the interests of people's health. Now you're saying, Well, if there is a health problem – that could be – then Mr Bartenstein's work inspection can look at the operation and determine whether it fits or not. Where, please, is there the success? Where, please, is the success in a more systematic view of workers' protection, a more systematic view of health at work? - There isn't! The Minister of Labour is inferior to the Minister of Economic Affairs, and the Minister of Economic Affairs can rejoice. Well, of course, these were the interests – as has already been said in the debate – of a number of large enterprises, which, faced with a particular job assignment, naturally have an interest in increasing the volume of work in operation. In principle, I do not think that this is something objectionable, and I would ask you not to misunderstand, Mr Mitterlehner. Of course, you should see how you can handle this. But this cannot happen as it happens in this case – and with that I come to the second citation carrier, in this case to the colleague Csörgits –: Entrepreneurs demand a lot, and the employee side manages to back this many things up. That's the real result. The business side has called for a lot, and Mrs. Csörgits is very proud of the fact that she managed to clear a little of it. But in this way, we do not imagine compromises that bring a benefit to both of them, that they demand a lot and that the others are very proud that they have achieved something! Finally, I would like to refer to points beyond this debate. ==References====External links== A very interesting article on June 2007, which has not been discussed so far in the debate. The working time directive of the European Union prohibits deterioration of working hours. The comment in the press – you may know it – says: This reorganisation or flexibility of working time, however you want to call it, may well be a deterioration to a forbidden deterioration under the Working Time Directive, because the flexibilization you are now making is not even well-founded. Shoulder pulls, as usual in Austria: Please, they should say what they want at European level, we will already be done with it! – We will see, ladies and gentlemen, Finally, I would like to tell you – not because I think Mr Dinkhauser is the more appropriate candidate for the ÖVP for Tyrol, but for a committed Chamber of Labour, at least in certain matters – only the summee of what the Chamber of Labour of Tyrol held in its view on working time flexibility: It says that it rejects the fact that the flexibility of working time provided for in it is almost exclusively geared to the economic needs and circumstances of employers and imposes on workers a work and life rhythm adapted to the needs of the company, without opening up a greater freedom of design to individual, personal and family needs. Yes, flexibilization would mean that the individual also has something to say. Unfortunately, this is only to such a limited extent that it is certain that what Mr Schopf of the SPÖ hopes to do – that works councils, workers' representatives and workers' representatives as persons – will certainly not take place. That is why we reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13492	The next speaker is Mrs Mikesch. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13513	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! A social partners' agreement will be implemented today, which will certainly be of great benefit to the employer's side, but also to the employee's side. Especially when I think of my experience from my own company, a production company, but also the experience from my district, it is simply that it was always a great desire for the workers to really combine times more to live the four-day week and thus create more time for the family and for the children at home. I think that a real situation has arisen, as our President Leitel has said, a triple win situation for entrepreneurs and employees, as well as for consumers. It is also a very, very important step towards small and medium-sized enterprises. It is now also possible to make these agreements. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The economic location of Austria as a whole will certainly benefit again, and we will be able to bring many additional investors back into the country, as in the past, because we have real confidence in our foundations, in our specifications, and thus we are a very excellent economic location. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, with this new labour law, we are certainly also taking a wonderful step towards creating additional jobs and training places, because very flexible and very individual can be addressed to the wishes of the market, and that, I believe, is important for the future in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13559	The next speaker was Mr Mag. Houses for the floor. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13580	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! That Minister Bartenstein can be very satisfied with the new law on working time today does not surprise me at all. Mr Bartenstein, you have already found one, two months ago here in the House during the budget debate: If the economy is doing well, it is also good for the workers. – I have already found that this is and is a real dream, and can only underline that. We should also work in this direction. However, they are working exactly in the opposite direction, because the environment for the working population is becoming increasingly difficult, the wages are not as poor as the profits of companies and, on the other hand, the employee representation – which is the regret of the whole situation – is so weakened to God, unfortunately, especially because of the fact that the ÖGB has speculated in such a way that the workers' side unfortunately is God's link to the economy and does not represent the right representation of the workers. It then comes to the conclusion that the situation for the working population at a time when the economy is really booming, in which companies are writing increasingly richer profits, and I think that is positive... – I think it is good for entrepreneurs to write profits, so it should be, but we should also try, on the other hand, to ensure that in this positive economic environment, the working population also loses their share of the wage. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If it has now been found here today that the ÖGB supports this agreement and that apparently the workers' chambers also support this agreement, that is only half the truth. A colleague mentioned earlier that, for example, the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol did not support this agreement and wrote to all the mandates and pointed out that on this issue it would like to have the support of the mandates of all the parties here in this House for the deterioration of the working time arrangements for the working population. As the situation now shows, the major parties are passing over the interests of the working population and are not aware of this cry for help from the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol at all. I can still quote this today from an AK Tirol, President Dinkhauser's advertisement, which says the following about the actual situation of the working population – President Dinkhauser has just recently held this in an advertisement in an economic magazine or a monthly magazine, and I can present some significant quotations from it today, quotations – once again – from an advertisement that was made by means of money from the working population. This is a perfect self-equilibrium for me, too. I have already asked the question several times: Mr Dinkhauser. Where were you? You are, after all, a leading employee representative and you advocate a state of affairs here, and the one you rightly criticise by means of an advertisement. But I'm just wondering: Where Your influence and weight within the Austrian People's Party in order to prevent this very state of affairs? I can quote from this listing, from this current listing, to reveal to you once the situation of the working population, especially the gap between capital on the one hand and labour on the other. I am therefore allowed to repeat here the words of President Dinkhauser – not that one is embarrassed to resort to a free-for-the-one politician, so according to the motto, we are bringing something here, but I have to speak to President Dinkhauser, who has found the following: “One percent of Austrians own one third of total assets, and nine percent have another third. The last third must divide 90 percent of the Austrians. (...) Workers today can afford less than in 1994." Dinkhauser also says: Tirol is a low wage country. "In Tyrol, the average income of standard workers is the most recent in Austria. The principle of equal pay for equal work has not been enforced in Tyrol either. (...) However, the income shear also opens between older workers and the younger ones." This is increasingly disparate and, above all, the income of younger workers has fallen by 6.6 percent since 1990. Dinkhauser continues: “The differences between poor and rich have increased dramatically in recent years.” And he goes on to say: ‘The gross payments beyond collective contractual minimum wages have stagnated at a low level for years.’ These are the words of President Dinkhauser, who shows the obvious failure of the ÖGB and the social partners. And today, you are still going to decide on a working time law that is proven to lead to a deterioration for the working population without demanding improvements for the working population – and that is our demand. For many reasons, we will not agree to this proposal because we call for improvements for the working population, such as, for example, the valorization of the allowances, finally the valorization of the extraordinary taxes, or finally the valorization of the tax classes that have remained the same for years, which means that under the direction of the Minister of Finance, the Austrian people are looking forward to constantly increasing wage tax payments. After all, wage tax revenue increased by more than 50 percent between 1996 and 2006, while income from corporate tax increased more or less over the same period. That alone is proof for us that it is time for the working population to finally have their fair share of a prosperous, booming population. To give economy. Since this is not the case, we do not, of course, agree with this deterioration in the working time system.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13665	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13687	Mr President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The statement by Mr Buchinger, who said it was the task of the opposition to crush the documents submitted by the government and to address the criticisms from them, is correct. However, research, even if criticised, should be carried out properly. Unfortunately, Mrs. Schatz is no longer in the hall. It has put in the room that the ÖGB suffers more or less from loss of memory, in January a reduction in working hours to 35 hours and then decides differently in the social dialogue. That's not right! There was no such request at this ÖGB Congress, which would have been voted on. But now let me refer to the new law on working time here: I can agree with many of my previous speakers that the social partners here have made a proper contribution to the future improvements for workers in this country. If you have read the report of the Labour Inspectorate, for example, which says how many excesses there have been in recent years, you know that there have been significant weaknesses in sanctions. On this particular point, as already reported by Mr Csörgits, it is no longer possible for businesses which have no working time records at all to expect a very small lump-sum penalty, and serious employers who record working time, to receive penalties per employee. The fact that this abuse has been cleared up is a merit of this template. Let me also say the following: If you have read the report presented by the Labour Inspectorate, you have also seen – if you can believe it – that the number of overruns in the Working Time Act has fallen significantly. However, this did not go down because employers suddenly discovered their social responsibility, but it went down because of the decrease in the number of employees in the labour inspectorates. Given this very good report, given the increasing control requirements and the fact that the employees in the labour inspectorates, standing constantly on the side of the employees, are not doing any easy job, it is appropriate that we should be very grateful from this point of view, because without it, this improvement we now have would not be possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13727	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13748	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The best employment policy is an equal footing Interest partnership between workers and employers, and which must be promoted, developed and developed. I think we all agree here. However, the present system on working time flexibility is based almost exclusively on the economic needs and circumstances of employers. This is fact, and in advance there has been very legitimate criticism on the part of, as already mentioned, the Chamber of Labour, by many workers' representatives. There have been unanimous decisions, for example, at the General Assembly of the Chamber of Workers in Carinthia, that the extension of the shift work is not allowed, so one should refrain from doing so. Flexibility, as it is now defined, clearly means an extension, not an extension, but an extension of daily working hours up to 12 hours, over a much longer period than before. The fact is that during this period people work longer and work at the same wage. This is not fair and not fair in the present day, because if work is to be paid, it must also be paid to workers who also support this extension of working time. The fact is that those who have to go to work every day, the so-called day commuters, have much longer working days – up to 14 hours – and I think that is not rare, because not everyone lives in Vienna, where public transport and public infrastructure are well developed. This is also associated with extremely high costs. ==References====External links== July the load is very, very big for the commuters. The fact is that this new law, which is in place here, will create new barriers for women in the field of work and family compatibility. We therefore move more towards job-friendly families and away from family-friendly jobs. This is unfair to the families and, above all, to the single parents, a very, very great disadvantage. What is available here also means that a 12-hour shift operation is possible and therefore the 3-shift operation is carried to the grave, and what is available here is also a cause for fear that negative effects such as health stress and an increase in work accidents will become reality. The only positive, and this is particularly sold by the government partners, especially the SPÖ, is at first sight the part-time regulation, which means a better pay for overtime for part-time workers. But this really only looks like it at first sight, because it is also contained in this law that overtime supplements are paid only under certain conditions. And that's a little bit of a mogel pack, just as it is in the care. There are also certain conditions, according to which you get 800 € or 250 € grant. It's the same here! If the operation has been agreed in writing – and this has been possible so far – that it will result in more work, then it will not be overtime. The period of three months, where balance can be made, is far too big. That's clear, too. – So: At first glance positive, but in implementation and handling not only complicated, but also a mogel pack. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, The flexibility of working time must not really be based solely on the economic interests of employers, but must also take much more account of the working and living conditions of workers. It must take into account that families, that workers have a right to freedom of design for their personal lives, that balance between family and work is guaranteed, and that they also have the opportunity, as is the case in rural areas, to continue to participate in social events, in community activities, because we know that very, very many are also voluntaryly organized. And exactly this group, ladies and gentlemen, especially you from the SPÖ, you have clearly betrayed this law! We from BZÖ say: If flexibility, then workers will have to be rewarded, be it through a tax exemption of overtime surcharges, whether it is through increased employee participation in the investment wage for example and other accompanying measures such as needs-based opening hours in childcare facilities or the reduction of the cost of the labour factor. For this reason, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Without these accompanying measures, we will not give the BZÖ our consent to this working time law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13869	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mrs Haubner is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13966	The next speaker is Mr Wöginger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e13987	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In principle, we welcome the legislative working time, which is based on a social partners agreement. I think you have to make it clear: The flexibility of working time is not an extension of working time. It may extend daily working time to 10 or 12 hours with this Act in the event of special work needs and with the agreement of the Works Council. This is often already used practice – also in the sense of the workers. At the Red Cross Upper Austria, for example, where I myself am Chairman of the Works Council, we have the 12-hour day and the 48-hour week in the rescue service for decades, and the employees also want to do so. I would also like to cut the four-day week short, because it is just a massive demand – also from the employee side. Gliding time and a better way of making leisure – I believe – are topics that particularly affect the works councils. The involvement of the Works Council is an essential element of this law. It is important that there are accompanying observations in the development of accidents at work and occupational diseases. We should discuss this together again. We should also be discussing whether, in those companies where there is no works council, it may be possible to think that after two years an evaluation will be carried out, whether the possibility of issuing the necessary occupational medical advice has been proven. Apart from that, this proposal is truly welcome, and we are very happy to support it. The 25 percent supplement for part-time workers is still mentioned. This is an improvement for the compatibility of family and work, especially for women. Many women are in part-time jobs, and if there is a surcharge when there is an additional benefit at the end of the calculation period, this is in all cases positive. Finally, I think we should continue to discuss the flexibility of working time in the future. I would like to make one more point in this regard, namely the current value account. It is a proposal from the ÖAAB Upper Austria, where it is thought about whether one can save time and then take this time at a later time without having to suffer financial loss. I think it would also be in the sense of the staff members to think about such a form of flexibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14030	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14051	Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment of the Working Time Act raises questions that need to be asked – questions to the ÖVP and to the SPÖ. Question one to the SPÖ: Why are you weakening the operating council level? Apart from the fact that it will be very difficult for works councillors to solve working time questions at the operational level – you know that and we know that – make You've got something else. They say that working time flexibility can be agreed in non-working establishments in writing with the individual employee. Do you know how that can be understood? – This can be understood as an involuntary request from the legislator to some employers to prevent works councils or to get rid of congested works councils, so that the flexible working hours can then be negotiated with the weakest of all negotiators, namely the individual employee and the individual employee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Bauer.]] Do you really want that? Or don't you think it's possible? Then ask your colleagues in the union! They will confirm to you that the prevention of the establishment of works council bodies is repeated. I only remind you of the public conflict with the KiK textile market, if you have already forgotten it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You could have done something else. You could have said that such working time flexibility is possible only if there is a works council. What do you think would have happened? – Then, suddenly, employers would have an interest in an operating partner, in a counterpart, in a works council. That would have been useful. Unfortunately, if you already want to negotiate at the company level, you have gone the wrong way and thus harm the works council level. Question two to both of you from ÖVP and SPÖ: Faith Are you sure that a ban on discrimination will continue to help to reject overtime? Not that it's wrong – don't get me wrong – but it won't be effective. Or do you really believe that some employer says: My dear friend, on 17.2. and on 25.3. you have refused overtime, you have abandoned me, and therefore you are not being transported. - Certainly not! We'll always have a proof problem. And that's what we're going to have a legal problem. This will result in your prohibition of discrimination remaining a dead right and will actually be disadvantaged. Question three: A question to the ÖVP, the self-appointed family party: Who has the power to deal with his children after a 12-hour day? Or what care facility should take care of during a 12-hour day? They all the time weep that there are too few children doing too little for the families. If you could do something for child-friendly working hours, then do nothing because other interests are more important to you. That is why you are unbelievable and we reject the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14114	The next speaker was Mr Ehmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14136	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Today we are dealing with the Federal Law, which amends the Working Time Act, the Labour Peace Act and the Land Labor Act 1984. I would like to say a few words about the law on working time. Apart from the additional work supplement for part-time workers, which facilitates the adoption of part-time employment, improved enforcement of working time protection through revised criminal provisions, simplification of the rules on smooth-time, and so on, there is one point that we would like to highlight: The new law on working time, which brings improvements for both workers and employers, is particularly in line with occupational health promotion. From my point of view, this novelle is well thought out and balanced for both parts. It also offers a perfect platform for the future Health Promotion and Prevention Act – but later on. The benefits of the staff are mainly reflected in the longer blocks of leisure due to the flexibility of their working time. Classic is the extended weekend, the 4-day week despite a 40-hour week. There has already been an example for workers: When someone is smart, he goes into the weekend on Friday and only returns to work on Tuesday. If possible, the employee makes the first 40 hours from Monday to Thursday and in the second week from Tuesday to Friday – and thus has an extended weekend of four days. An example for employers: The economic side was also taken into account, of course, because the extension of the maximum daily working time to 12 hours – which means up to 60 hours a week – from a maximum of 12 weeks per year to 24 weeks per year is possible. So she was doubled. As we know, however, a limit of eight weeks per week must be observed. It is important that this 12-hour day is only possible if the collective agreement provides for this. In addition, an operating agreement must be concluded. It is also important to ensure occupational safety. But what does it all have to do with health promotion and prevention? – I tell you: Since the extension of working time mentioned earlier may in some cases mean a short-term additional burden – four days or the twelve hours previously mentioned – it will be all the more necessary in the future to force appropriate measures for occupational health promotion, and for this we will be partners. All institutions operating health promotion and prevention – for example, social security providers – could design their programmes in such a way that the necessary measures for health promotion and prevention, which may also fall partly into leisure time, still leave enough time for family or other activities. In conclusion, I note that this federal law concerning the amendment of the labour-time, labour-rest and land-work labour law is very well positioned in our concept and therefore finds our full consent. We do not find it – as the colleague Schatz says – “damage, shame, shame”, but great that we can decide today. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14178	Next, Mrs. Dr. Karl will speak. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14199	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! I would like to join with Mr Wöginger's speech. Finally, he mentioned the time-value accounts and said that here too there is a More flexibilisation should come. I think this is a very, very good idea. However, it should be ensured that this saved working time is not only used for early retirement. The saved working time should be used mainly for continuing training, but also, for example, if there is an additional need, for child care periods. All in all, therefore, such a measure would be very welcome. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to refer to Mrs Schatz's speech. She mentioned that part-time workers are disadvantaged and that women are primarily affected, because women are primarily employed as part-time workers. From a legal point of view, there is no discrimination. You have to see one thing: This previous regulation that no overtime supplement is made for the extra work of part-time workers is not laid down by law, but results from the Judicatur. The Supreme Court has always based this on the fact that, according to the performance of its normal working time, workers need an increased effort to carry out further work. In the view of the Supreme Court, this recital does not apply to part-time workers. In other words, there is very much an objective justification here for why part-time workers and full-time workers are treated differently in terms of overtime supplements and additional work supplements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14236	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14257	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! We need for our employees. Workers' right to work in a timely manner. The working world has changed greatly. Fast-lived, varied, challenging – these are just a few tags to describe the new situation. However, in order to give workers the appropriate safety and to regulate the general conditions, it is an important step to adapt the working time law. A flexible law on working time, with which companies can also react to job peaks, which also provides workers with the usual safety, is also a prerequisite for securing jobs and a functioning economy. We must prevent more and more people from being forced into precarious employment, because the existing labour law is too rigid for permanent, regular employment and does not adapt to current circumstances. Of course, accompanying evaluations must show how the legal framework is to be further developed and improved. Human beings must always be at the centre. The supplement for additional work for part-time workers and the substantial increase in the criminal framework in the case of infringements of the Working Time Act are only two of the positive innovations in this novel. Finally, the co-operation of entrepreneurs and employees is crucial to the quality of a law and how satisfied the employees, employees and employees are with their work situation. Our ÖVP members, Minister of Economic Affairs Bartenstein and Secretary of State for Labour Christine Marek, will certainly continue this work in this sense.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14299	Mrs Stadler is the next speaker. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14321	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! The current government template includes changes to the Working Time Act, which should increase the flexibility of companies in the event of changing pressures. It also includes an improvement for part-time workers: They will receive a supplement in the future under certain conditions. Even if this measure is criticised by the Greens and it is said that it would be too little: This law means a lot more justice for many women working part-time because they care for their families, their children. There is now the possibility of increasing daily working time if necessary – and this is also very important, this is not generally increased; in many businesses the works councils have this possibility – to ten hours, and there is the general approval of twelve-hour shifts. But it is important that this happens in partnership. It will also be necessary for employers to work together with their employees to find solutions if the measures are necessary if changing loads are to be optimally handled. We improve the framework conditions for this exceptional situation. This has been misinterpreted by many today. This improvement will be necessary because it is important that we have successful companies in our country. Companies always succeed when they have employees working together in partnership for the company. All of this is necessary so that we can remain successful in the economy and offer jobs to people.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14359	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the votes, and I ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take the seats again. We shall vote on the draft law in 141 of the supplements. The Members of Parliament have Magnificence here. Honey, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. First of all, I would like to vote on the parts of the draft law concerned by this amendment and then on those parts of the draft law as amended by the Government template and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with its title and receipt, in the version of the Government bill. Deputies Mag. Treasure, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment concerning Article I(15)(3)(a) and (3b). I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall be voting on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a sign on this point. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, we come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who stand up for this. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, fellow Members, on the necessary measures to deal with the law on working time. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[14:17:10]] 6. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (127 d.a._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Federal Procurement Act 2006 – BVergG 2006 (186 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14452	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14486	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! High house! Before I come to the right to award, I would like to make two fundamental comments on the Constitutional Committee. In recent months, the Constitutional Committee has regularly – we have said almost monthly – and has sometimes had very intensive debates, for example with regard to the right to vote. Unfortunately, a matter has never been on the agenda of the Constitutional Committee, and that was the question of solving the problem of the local panel in Carinthia. This is particularly regrettable because in many places this issue has been discussed – last but not least at a so-called consensus conference at the Federal Chancellor – but the committee responsible has not had the opportunity to discuss this issue until today as the competent constitutional legislator, who finally has to decide on this solution. It is also a sign of poverty for parliamentarianism that it was not possible to discuss this. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A solution should be on the table until the summer of 2007 – as is the case in the Government Convention. I regret that one is now hiding behind a consensus or an tried consensus – especially now addressed to the address of ÖVP – with a head of state who has not noticed constructively in recent months on this issue, who has ignored constitutional court knowledge since 2001 and has always been mad at local boards to finally solve this important question in the interests of the population. – The advance to the Constitutional Committee. Now to the contract right: From the public's point of view, the contract law is a very important instrument to meet certain, overarching objectives. The contract law is regularly modernised and reformed. The Green Group voted in favour of the last amendment. This was a advance of confidence for the future, which unfortunately is being played in today's decision. At the time, we agreed to a unanimous resolution aimed at taking a step towards ecologicalisation with public procurement, namely to adopt directives on ecological procurement. This does not mean that the Green Group is not alone. This is an issue which the Court of Auditors addressed very intensively already in 2005 to the Federal Government or to Parliament. The Court of Auditors has strongly criticised these directives for ecological procurement. And that's more, than at events organized by ministries to offer transfair bananas or transfair coffee, but that's a real volume that can move something on the market if the public hand – for example, in the public hospitals – goes about organic products, or, another example, the public fleet is as energy efficient or energy efficient as possible. These are already large volumes that could move the public hand there. And the Court of Auditors has also definitely stated that even if additional costs are recorded, the overall environmental effects are very positive and are also profitable in the medium term, so that it is justified to switch to ecological procurement here. At the time, we agreed to the award law – in which, I believe, legitimate expectation that if there is a five-party resolution request, it will also be implemented. To this day, this is not the case. As we have learned from the Committee, there are pilot projects and pilot projects in five areas instead of the ecological guidelines. I wonder, What is the need for pilot projects in these areas? I think you have enough experience in the field of ecological procurement. There are many examples here: Landesspitäler, Pensionistenheime et cetera, who have already started experiments. So: What are pilot projects for here? And: What is to come about at the end of these pilot projects? Why is a unanimous motion for a resolution tabled by the National Council to this day ignored? In any case, this is a problem that we cannot wipe from the table. We are also obliged to apply energy efficiency to procurement as a public authority. This is also a point that ultimately leads to our rejection. This energy efficiency directive of the European Union, which was also a reason for innovation in the procurement law, is implemented so poorly that one can safely assume that it will not have an effect. It is written in: mere consideration of energy efficiency criteria, and not strict consideration. This is especially in the light of the current climate discussion and also the task of the public authorities to contribute to climate protection, perhaps to put in place energy efficiency measures each year and also to achieve energy savings, particularly sad and for us the reason why we cannot agree to this procurement law. Finally, only the positive: The problem raised by the VfGH with its repeal, namely the fee scheme, is well solved, but this does not remove this fundamental problem, the complete lack of ecological procurement, also in the procurement law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14556	The next speaker is Mr Fazekas. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14577	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! High house! I would like to take a very brief look at the statements made by Madam President Glawischnig on the subject of the Constitutional Committee. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer has put forward a reasonable proposal here, which we could have decided on. There has also been a corresponding request in the Constitutional Committee, but this request has unfortunately not been accepted. I am sorry because I too would have welcomed it if we had come to a solution here until the summer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, however, I would like to lose a few words to the Federal Procurement Act. I believe that we are dealing with this draft of the Government, which is a very extensive instrument of regulation, which is still relatively young, a legislative work which deals with the rules of award, namely rules relating to the federal, state and local authorities, but which are also intended to give legal certainty. A special degree of objectivity and transparency is required, especially in the case of public sector awards, but there are, of course, always controversies just preprogrammed in connection with expectations of the domestic economy and industry. Already under the Federal Procurement Act 2006, based on the German Federal Procurement Act 2002, it has been shown that adaptations are necessary, which in large numbers have their origin in the EU's material procurement directives. Already at that time, the keen participation in the review procedure has shown the importance of this legal matter. This presentation now contains information from the Constitutional Court on the fee system, a change in the fight against the withdrawal in the sub-suspension area, and legal adjustments and legal clarifications. I believe that with this government template there is a reasonable set of rules, which must be aimed above all at ensuring that the contracting authorities can apply a manageable and practical law. For example, improvements have been made in legibility, the separation of classical areas from the sector and, above all, the abandonment of cross-references. Here I am allowed to speak briefly to the local authorities, because they are particularly required in the contract law, and there should be no mistakes – sometimes no simple task in a rulework with more than 300 paragraphs. However, considering the investment volume of the municipalities, one also gets an idea of what contribution the cities and the municipalities make using the federal procurement law. For example, I can only point out briefly that the Austrian cities and municipalities make 50 percent of all public investment by the local authorities, and the city of Vienna is not yet present. Perhaps as a small reference to the forthcoming financial compensatory negotiations. In particular, I would like to stress that this government template has included references to final energy efficiency as an environmental aspect. I would like to contradict you a little, Madam President Glawischnig, because I think it is quite possible that an Article 15a agreement will develop a guide catalogue which sets out very specific rules, so that the ecological aspect of procurement, the fleet, lighting and so on is also taken into account. There have been many suggestions from the cities, the municipalities, the countries, the social partners, so that I assume that there is a very special importance to the practice. I think you can give your consent to this act.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14635	Next, Mr Aspock. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14656	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A preliminary answer to Mrs Glawischnig: It is not true that the Constitutional Committee was never involved with the Carinthian local boards at all. There was a request last Thursday, and it was voted on whether this request should come to the agenda. And a democratic majority of this Constitutional Committee has balanced and has found that the necessary agreement of all parties is not there, and therefore it has been rejected by a majority to put this request on the agenda. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek: So that the Committee cannot discuss it!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Due to various circumstances – constitutional court decisions, EU specifications and the like – the revision of the Federal Procurement Act was necessary. A novelle offers – I emphasize the conjunctive – the possibility to write substantial improvements into the law. But the great coalition – in spite of the short term of office already can be said: in the usual way – has, of course, ceased. Just as you, ladies and gentlemen of the great coalition, do not abolish unnecessarily teacher privileges in civil service law, but extend to almost all public servants, you have not even made the effort to write effective provisions against foreign black labor into the law. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The ÖVP obviously does not want to get too close to the “black sheep” among the entrepreneurs, and the SPÖ does not, in the interests of maintaining the great coalition, provide for the effective fight against undeclared work. We liberals have tabled an amendment at the Committee's meeting. The Federal Chancellor highly personally said that this amendment was very interesting and he would like to enter into the discussion, but that we should be careful not to contradict a constitutional court knowledge. I can now adapt this amendment accordingly, in such a way that this Constitutional Court of Justice, which has tipped the provision at that time, will no longer be able to take advantage of it. The application is as follows: '§ 73 (3): The contracting authority shall examine the claim of the trader and, when assessing the reliability of the measures taken by the trader, in relation to the number and severity of the criminal offences committed, or I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. In the event of a judicial punishment in accordance with § 28 para. 1 Z 1 AuslBG does not give this company the required reliability." – And now the addition comes in amendment of our request in the committee: – “A statement of credence according to para. 1 may only be permitted if the trader can prove that one of his agents has acted contrary to a labour law directive.’ I assume that the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party are now satisfied and will therefore follow the recommendation of their Federal Chancellor and support the request. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I can also stress on the edge that this is not some lappaly. For those who have not dealt with the concrete matter: ==References====External links== April 2007 concludes that the illegal employment of foreigners in the Republic of Austria accounts for approximately €300 million a year. This is almost the sum that a Minister of Social Democrats has recently referred to as follows: This is the greatest saving the Republic of Austria has made in the Second Republic. [[Demonstrative applause by representatives of the SPÖ.]] I do not think we should give up on that, and therefore I invite you to accept our amendment. If the amendment does not proceed, we cannot agree to liberals because of the toothlessness of the original version.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14734	The amendment tabled by Mr Aspöck is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14795	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14816	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me, because all my previous speakers have also addressed the question of the Carinthian town boards, let me begin by saying a few sentences. I do not think it is true, as has been said here by the Social Democracy, that the Committee has rejected the SPÖ's request. That's not right. It was already carried out by my previous speaker. A very short-term attempt was made to put an agenda item on the agenda here, and there we, including my group, felt that the issue was too sensitive to put on the agenda - we have been discussing this for a very long time - a proposal in this context, which is quite debateable, and which leads to a very rapid decision on this matter. There are several proposals. There was also a compromise last year, which was also very well coordinated with all the organizations in Carinthia, but unfortunately did not find the approval of this House. Therefore, I do not think that the discussion should be shortened by the fact that the Constitutional Committee is in a very big hurry to peat a request. These were the backgrounds from the point of view of my group, and I believe that it is necessary to discuss all the proposals in detail. Unfortunately, it is not true that the Federal Chancellor's proposal has taken all the concerns into account, so to speak, because, contrary to previous compromise proposals, it has not included, for example, two places which have already been considered necessary by the Constitutional Court, and some other things, I think, still have to be voted on. It should be enough time for a discussion, for one has shown the past: There is nothing to be done if we are going through a request here in Parliament very quickly, but it is important that such a regulation should also be understood by those concerned in Carinthia, that a regulation be found here in consensus and not by the majority from Vienna in Carinthia, which is necessary. Now on the point that is actually on the agenda today: Bundesvergabegesetz. – It was already carried out by some of my previous speakers that here before on the one hand, a repair in the fee system, in which fees were necessary, and on the other hand a number of technical reliefs have been provided, particularly in the area of sub-suspension. It is not necessary to provide for a very complicated revocation procedure here, and I believe that, in view of the amounts of the procurement provided for there, it is well justified that a simple withdrawal of the award procedure will also be possible for the contracting authority. I would, however, like to oppose what Madam President Glawischnig said, if she said that environmental aspects would not be taken into account here, energy efficiency would not be taken into account. That's just not right, and I think it overlooks the meaning and purpose of the contract law. The Federal Procurement Act is not in place to bring any values into the award procedure, but rather to ensure a balanced competition in the award of public contracts. In this sense, it is about creating a level playing field for all, ultimately making the same rules applicable to all. It's not right, either, that there's nothing to do with it. In the principles of the award procedure, there is already paragraph 5 of this paragraph, which takes into account environmental justice and environmental aspects. With this innovation, energy efficiency has now been explicitly taken into account on the basis of EU requirements. However, I believe that it is important – and this is a motion for a resolution that we have also decided in the Constitutional Committee – to show the contracting authorities that they have much more scope than they often think, because the price is often seen as the only criterion. I believe that environmental aspects, but also the question of innovative services, as expressed in the motion for a resolution, should be included by the contracting authorities much more in the procurement procedures. It is not for the legislator to act, but for the contracting authority to do so, and there is also a corresponding appeal to them. That's what's supposed to happen on this occasion.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14872	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14893	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already “tradition” that the Constitutional Committee last moment wants to put one or the other request on the agenda. This is tried again and again, and there is no exception from a 24-hour frist. To the town boards. . I am glad when we come to an agreement on the local panel question in Carinthia on this request, as it now looks, in which everything will be re-rolled – we were much more important than last year. I myself am one of the mixed-linguistic territories. I know myself there and know that the population itself has no problem at all with it, but that is a problem of the functionals – and a problem of politics. - That's what I'm talking about. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] First, one should make nails with heads and not arbitrarily order 163 bilingual town boards without a percentage limit. One should not do the wrong thing, but look at it carefully again. As far as the Federal Procurement Act is concerned: We will not give this federal award law the consent. It is a transposition of various EU directives and takes into account several constitutional court knowledge, but it is questionable to me whether this clarification of the statistical obligations, as the Court of Auditors partly criticised, does not mean an increase in administrative burden. In this context, I would like to point out that Mr Molterer has said that the administrative and bureaucratic expenditure should be reduced by 25 percent in the future, and this is against diametrically. I do not think we should make an even more bureaucratic effort if we have actually done something else. This cannot be in the inventor's mind, and the coalition parties should also consider this. As far as the amendment tabled by colleagues from FPÖ is concerned, I also absolutely believe that companies who employ illegals should receive not only an administrative penalty but also a federal award. In any case, we will vote in favour of this amendment, as has already been done in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14944	Mrs Silhavy, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e14966	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Dolinschek, I believe that this government template is characterised by the fact that discussions have been held in advance with the countries concerned with the distribution of competence in public procurement and also by the ideas and suggestions in this innovation. I believe that this is a good sign of good practice, namely that those who are ultimately also responsible for this law enforcement will be involved in the ideas of innovation. It has already been said: In March last year, the Constitutional Court annulled the German Federal Procurement Act 2002 regarding the fee scheme, and in order to avoid, as it were, the Federal Procurement Act 2006 which is comparable in the regulations to the old Federal Procurement Act, continuing to suspend lack of constitutional conformity, it is now being designed in accordance with Constitution. It has also been pointed out that, particularly in the sub-seventies, the withdrawal is no longer mandatory, but the applicants can choose what will certainly contribute to the acceleration of the procedures and correspond to a positive flexibility. The necessary changes to the Community level have already been made to the legal situation. This, of course, starts in smaller areas, such as the extension of these provisions to the countries of Bulgaria and Romania. I think it is essential that we have, at the end of the day, - and this was also mentioned - really maintained the final energy efficiency here. Madam President, on your point. I should like to point out once again: The Federal Chancellor was personally present in the Constitutional Committee and would of course have been available for the discussion you wanted, but I assume your suggestion has been in favour of this House. I can only say that now because the Federal Chancellor was very personal on this very occasion in committee. Madam President, you have still asked what purpose the pilot projects fulfil, and have even mentioned the five projects. These projects have the meaning that a collection of economic measures of products can be carried out with the use of environmental performance sheets, which can also result in a binding anchorage in the Federal Procurement Act. I believe that this is a sensible way to actually anchor these points. Mr Aspöck has raised the question when advertisers have made excesses. In this context, I should like to remind you that it was the FPÖ that has repeatedly pointed out to us that the Constitutional Court was opposed to such provisions, when it came to the 1998 decision, that we wanted to commit violations of the workers' protection provisions or violations of the equal treatment law, which is why these possibilities could not be created. One essential point is that we have not only established the constitutional conformity with this revision and implemented the EU rules accordingly, but also established the provisions in cooperation with the countries, i.e. with the implementing level of administration. I believe that they are therefore characterised by a high level of practicality. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15023	The next speaker is Mr Marizzi. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15044	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Madam President, it has been mentioned several times today: The SPÖ has, of course, submitted a request concerning the local boards – I do not want to evaluate it now, the Constitutional Committee is very active – but unfortunately we have been overshadowed and have therefore not been able to deal with this issue before the summer. The reasons for changing the contract law have already been explained by many of my previous speakers. It is important that this draft law gives the contracting entities choice when withdrawing the award procedure, which increases flexibility, and we are particularly proud of it. Flexibility is necessary in order to implement appropriate measures in the procurement procedure. In addition, this amendment has taken up numerous specific points, suggestions from practice, such as from the countries, in order to facilitate, in particular, the implementation of this legislative change in practice. One point that should not be mentioned: innovation-promoting procurement. The Secretary of State has given an in-depth reply. The texting was, of course, agreed between the Federal Ministry, the Federal Chancellor's Office and the Chamber of Commerce, and this is to be implemented in this way. We are proud that this law is now being repaired. The public and national levels have been taken into account. The adaptations were made in order to understand both levels accordingly. We are happy to agree to this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15088	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15109	Mr President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, I refer to the guide to an innovation-promoting procurement system, which has already been mentioned here twice, and I would like to note that I consider this innovation guide to be excellent. I'm really surprised, I have to say that the ministry – how am I supposed to say? – I am not surprised that the staff of the Ministry are doing something like this, because I know it as a committed person, but I am surprised that such a thing is possible among these members of the government until there is even a gender-neutral language regime in this innovation guide – a very innovative contribution – from my point of view a very positive step. This innovation guide assumes that the public hand as the most important buyer can be an important engine for innovation. Demand determines supply in a certain way, and attempts are being made to ensure that companies that are innovative are also supported. I think that's very good. The problem is that this innovation guide – as well as the resolution tabled by ÖVP and SPÖ – is now supposed to benefit almost exclusively from the scope of the current procurement law. In other words, the public hand should be moved in its various places to benefit from the scope of this very positive innovation guide provided by the Procurement Act. This goes too little from our point of view, because if you are already convinced that innovation in businesses should not only be supported, but that such businesses should actually be preferred, then from our point of view you need to change the contract law. We have already noted at the 2006 Novelle that innovative businesses are actually disadvantaged or do not receive the necessary support. This has also been determined by all sides, including those of the then government parties and SPÖ. Perhaps it is also possible for you to move so far that you think beyond your current motion for a resolution and agree to our motion for a resolution, which is about to go so far as to say that the procurement law should also be amended in the direction of this innovation guide. We think that officials and officials in connection with the preparation of this guide have accumulated so much know-how that you could actually change the right to award here very well. We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Following the meeting of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, which discussed the SPÖ and ÖVP resolution, we agreed in the Group to approve this motion for a resolution in plenary, although we rejected it in the Committee after some minor amendments had been made, and we think that at least what you are planning should be implemented once. Nevertheless: You may also be able to agree to our request, which goes a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15173	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Sburny is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15220	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15241	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The Federal Procurement Act, which is now for consultation and decision-making has become necessary – it has already been carried out several times – because there is a knowledge of the Constitutional Court to refer to. It is gratifying that this result could be achieved in agreement with the interest groups, but above all with the federal states. Many new important proposals have been made there. Some details: There are technical changes, there is a reduction in fees – I think that this is important for the entire development of the tender. There is also a reduction in statistical obligations and administrations in the context of red tape. There is an adaptation to the EU Directive for greater energy efficiency, and this is also considered to be very positive and targeted by the EU. It is also important that there is a relief in the lower threshold. This means that there is a benefit or improvement for these offers. It is also important to increase innovation capacity, especially in the public sector. We should not forget that this is important because about 16 percent of the total economic orders come from these areas in particular. That is why I think this law is aimed at a good development. We are also concerned, in particular, with giving local businesses a better opportunity to keep jobs in peripheral areas, in order to ensure value creation in the future. In this way, we not only meet a request from the Constitutional Court, but also comply with EU provisions, the Lisbon objectives. We are on the right track, and we believe that we can make a contribution here, that the economy in Austria is developing positively and actively, thus securing jobs for all of us and creating value for our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15289	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I therefore ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we come to the votes. We shall vote on the draft law in 127 of the Supplements. Mr Aspöck, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. First of all, I shall vote on the parts of the bill concerned by this amendment and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, in the version of the Government's proposal. Mr Aspöck, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment concerning paragraph 25. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to be a positive sign. – This is the minority and thus rejected. I come to the vote on these parts of the draft law as it stands. I would like to ask the Members of the House for a sign in the event of their consent. – This is the majority and thus accepted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution on the 186 attached to the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 27.) We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek, colleagues in the field of innovation-friendly procurement law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[14:55:02]] 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (139, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the private television law, the ORF law and the KommAustria law (194 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15400	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15427	Mr President. High house! There has been intense negotiations on the so-called mobile TV. This is an opportunity for large parts of the population to be given access to television programmes, possibly in a new and different form, by means of a mobile phone, and by the way, by the Constitutional Committee, something which was accepted unanimously. We were under pressure from time, so I would like to express my thanks to the officials of Mrs Bures' ministry, to Mrs. Minister himself, but also to Mr Morak, who, on the part of the coalition partner, has made a real effort here to achieve as quickly as possible a result, I believe, that this has been achieved in the final effect. There will be an impulse for the creatives, an impulse for new content, there will be an impulse for the market – you don't know to what extent that will be taken up, but it is at least a very important and interesting initiative. We've got yes. It also noted that both Deutsche Telekom, the mobile phone, and all those interested in the private sector, not only the ORF, but also in the private sector, there is great interest here in creating clear legal regulations in this area, so that this can happen in order. It has, of course, always shown itself in the negotiations and also in public discussions a certain tension between the public and private television operators, but I believe that it has been very successful to allow for a balance between the ORF and the private, as in many other issues before. There is nothing against this now if we decide today, so that with all the advances and implementations, technical nature should be possible at the Euro 2008 anyone who has a special interest in it, by means of a mobile phone, to observe exactly how successful football is being played, how successful the Austrian football team is. I look forward to when it is possible that we can win and motivate additional fans with this new technology. There has been a brief debate in the Constitutional Committee on the Committee's note, which we have also put in here. I believe it is very important to point out that, as a short- to medium-term objective, we are planning to set up a media authority. It will then be up to all of us, and this should be as transparent as possible, because it is an institution that is of the utmost importance for regulation, for the organisation of the entire media landscape, which should also balance properly with private law, as this media authority is then set up, how it should function, which areas it should cover. I think we're going to have to take our time to give this advice. But we have done this and we really want to implement it in a manageable period of time. I expect all those who are concerned with media policy issues to be interested and who we already know from interesting discussions in the past, including some of them, to take part in it, because that is something that is already in place in other countries and with which the further development of the Austrian media landscape is significantly influenced. That is why we really need to take care to ensure that this is an authority that will comply with its name.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15475	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 7 of the agenda so that the urgent debate on a self-employed request can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:00:40]] Request for urgent procedure of Deputies Mag. Werner Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on the communication of documents to the investigative committee on financial market supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers (259/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15509	In the first place, I should like to make the following statement on the urgent request: On the admissibility of Mr Mag. Mr Kogler, ladies and gentlemen, made urgent requests concerning late submissions of documents. The Committee of Inquiry on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services providers raised concerns which were also the subject of a presidential conference. A legal review of Parliament's management has given rise to the doubts raised in the context of the Rules of Procedure of the present application. This urgent request is therefore problematic because it provides for the transmission of documents by the Federal Minister for Finance to Parliament. Regardless of whether the application can be considered admissible in the light of Article 52 B-VG or § 74a GOG, the transmission of such documents to the plenary, whose submission has already been requested by the committee of inquiry, would also be of concern in view of the lack of confidentiality there. In spite of these concerns, the applicants have excluded the withdrawal of their application, but this request has already been cleared, I will now call upon the urgent request without prejudice. We therefore come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 259/A(E). In the meantime, he has been approached by all the Members, so there is a lack of reading by the author. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15669	I give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Kogler as an applicant for the reasons of the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. [[Abg. Scheibner: To the Rules of Procedure.]] On the Rules of Procedure: Mr Scheibner, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15704	Madam President, you have now explained to us that this urgent request should not actually have been approved by business regulations, but is now being called. I now ask you to clarify a legal question, because in this debate we can also put forward motions for resolutions or vote on this urgent request. In other words, it is not possible to vote on something which would actually not be allowed to happen. – What is the legal effectiveness of a possible urgent request, or what legal effect do resolutions have, which are decided in this debate, which is actually illegal to business regulations?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15731	In my view, ladies and gentlemen, the motions for resolutions that would be tabled would be in accordance with the rules of business. In my opinion, this request is illegal and could only be interpreted in this form. Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to this – and we have discussed it in such a way today in the presidential session – that it will probably be very wise in the future to allow a deadline per Rules of Procedure for urgent requests to carry out such audits in time, as this examination is often not possible in the few minutes from the introduction to the agenda. I can't go any further, I can't take the urgent request from the agenda anymore, and I can't afford to do it by business regulation. That is why I have already called on him, although such a decision-making would be extremely problematic. Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Van der Bellen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15764	I would like to say for the minutes that the Green Group believes that this proposal is absolutely non-commercial, and that we also maintain this view in the presidential debate. I would like to have said this specifically here. I do not see at all why such a word-clave takes place about the wording ‘to be sent to Parliament’. – Who else is it other than Parliament? Or do we have to say in the future that the building at the ring is meant, or ‘the National Council’? With “Parliament”, perhaps the Federal Council could also be meant – that’s ridiculous, I think!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15794	Please, Mr. Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15818	We have discussed this in detail in the President-in-Office's office, and we see here from our side very much an urgent request in accordance with the rules of procedure, because, of course, the term 'parliament' covers only those parts of the Rules of Procedure in the way it is permitted. And just as the request meant and understood that. These are content that is requested here, which has been unanimously requested by all political groups in the Committee of Inquiry – and no more and no less. For the sake of confidentiality and for the sake of the Rules of Procedure, this will be done in the manner agreed in the presidential agreement between all political groups on the Eurofighter Investigation Committee. In the same way, this wording of the President-in-Office has to be implemented, and I also understand the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15845	Thank you for speaking. They have reflected what we have already discussed in the Presidency. It has also been established there that I am abdicating an entrance statement so that it is clearly held. We are now going into the debate. I have already mentioned: Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Kogler. His speaking time must not exceed 20 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e15875	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! – Ms. Minister! [[Call the SPÖ and the Greens:Woman Minister!]] [[Abg. Riepl: That's a difference!]] Yeah, that's why she went too. This is typical of the fate of this committee, which is happening here. The urgent request also has a clear issue, namely that of ‘external file transfer to the committee of inquiry...’, and so on. I think that is clear. I would add that even the Presidential Protocol on the transmission of the files to the Committee of Inquiry of fighter aircraft under point 3b assumes that there are rules on the confidentiality of sensitive documents to Parliament here. – So from the point of view, it is completely uniform. This is just as if secret files for the committee of inquiry at the top of the column hall would be categorized to hand them over to the passing tourists. That's completely absurd what you're doing here! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] I don't know what's going on in the house at all, but we're going to get to the bottom of the thing. There are things that are indeed remarkable here. Ladies and gentlemen, the clear majority of this House took place on 30 July. In October 2006, a request should be made for an investigation committee to be set up on 18 research items which, admittedly, are not all related. But that doesn't matter. It's a further test order. It's a test order that can't be fulfilled in a few months. In any case, it is an audit task that cannot be fulfilled exactly when your authorities, Mr State Secretary, do not submit the files! And that is the reason for the urgent today: an investigation mission which cannot therefore be fulfilled because, due to the pressure of the ÖVP to which the SPÖ has been given, witnesses have just been invited to pass by Parliament. If you annotate, best with poster out on the ring, that's on 2nd. July is over, then bear the responsibility for the fact that witnesses, who are actually subject to investigation according to the application, sleep, wallner and so on, simply don't come anymore! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon: Witnesses are not investigative!]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: These are information people!]] Right to the case of sleep: May. Sleepy writing – this must be done on the tongue; the Lord will employ us more often today – on the 1st day. ==References====External links== July received a second time: Vienna, 1st Vienna, 1st Vienna, 1st Vienna, 1st I regret to have to tell you that I am on vacation abroad from today and therefore the date on the 2nd. Not able to observe July at 3 p.m. It is clear that this Committee of Inquiry recognises that power. Sleeping among those minors in this Republic who can only afford last-minute vacations. A first understanding of this Committee of Inquiry. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a chuzpe that is being held here! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] But tragically, we are going to insist that all of this is not as funny as it is grinned in the first series of the SPÖ. We'll talk to you later. ==References== The investigation order was formulated in October 2006. ==References== In October, the chief executives of the Central Bank of Raiffeisen addressed Parliament to the effect that, first of all, individual Members and then, subsequently, all those who formed the majority should be prosecuted, because of this test decision: Rothensteiner, following Konrad; you can read that. These are the conditions! First knowledge of this Committee of Inquiry: The media landscape in Austria and its ownership structures must be deflated. This has not been said by anyone in this House for a long time, and Mr Cap has been a long time away. That is a recognition of this committee. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] It was Mr Cap who drew my attention in April to the fact that we should run out of the Committee of Inquiry because the Raiffeisen media will cause a terrible thunderstorm on Members, on the Greens and on the SPÖ. That can't be a state of democratic debate! But it is the real state in this republic! That's solidified! This is a recognition of the Committee of Inquiry – and of the state of a party in this House. Not so the ÖVP, which from the outset has said what it wants, respectfully above all, what it does not want. That's what we're used to, that's what we're going to do. [[In-between calls at the ÖVP.]] – Now even the Federal Chancellor laughs out of service bowl, but that will not stay that way. There are 18 test points: Six of them have not been fulfilled or have just been addressed – and I will inform you about this “approach”. And then we will ask whether the SPÖ Members are still in a position or are willing to agree to the deadline to be agreed. The question of the involvement of politicians, of government politicians in the incriminated points of this audit order is completely outstanding. Nothing's happened yet! This is prevented by a majority in the last few weeks. The question of party financing is completely open. The recommendations of the Banking Committee will be similar to those of the Eurofighter Committee and will only be able to look forward to them. Why, Mr State Secretary, prevent Your authority that the tax documents of the ÖGB are transmitted? Because each child is aware that there are several possibilities of party financing and hidden party financing. One of these is probably the right one: that the BAWAG does not simply carry the money up to you – that's all right, you were SPÖ party cassiers – not simply put it in your treasure, but that it's about the ÖGB. And the ÖGB is that institution in Austria, which by law has received the possibility to wash the donations, possibly donations to the SPÖ. And now the Committee is being turned off and strangled, because we are finally coming to the politically relevant points. Look, it's not just about criminal law, there's enough processes now, that's right, it's about parliamentary investigation committees mainly about political networks that favour certain actions and prevent certain actions, but which would be necessary. And these points are what the focus must be on. And in further testing, we have reached exactly at this threshold, where it is obvious that economic criminal organizations are ruling out into the Austrian banks respectfully grow out there, at least in one case, and at least get back into it. I believe that it would have been better for the bank place to make a pure table here and not always those who point to this wound or put their fingers in it, to be responsible for anything wrong here. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] Moreover, as we argued at the time, our first audit assignment is not primarily about rumbling in the banks and in the accounts and in business relations and in companies, it is about the functioning – we also note this, always and again – respectfully about the failure of the authorities. But the occasions have to come to the table, and I'll go through at least two with you now. There is a serious and justified suspicion that, in the matter of money laundering, where we are only now starting to investigate individual institutions, very few more, individual courted officials are opposed to certain practices that clearly go far beyond what this order formulates: large-scale money laundering, that they want to investigate. This is about the economic criminality of the worst variety. And then we note that there is no number of political interventions, that these investigations are turned off, that they are intervened for members of the Russians – how would one say nationally? – Mafia, the organised crime that these visas receive in order to get permanent residence in Austria, although these people around the world are confronted with either having entry bans or at least getting one. We note that European states want to write out these persons on arrest lists and the Federal Criminal Office in Austria wants to do so due to money laundering moments and other moments – against interventions that come from people who organize business with Austrian banks and expect benefits. These names can be mentioned: Dr. Taus. [[Abg. Mayerhofer: Wow!]] Yeah, that's it! [[Call the ÖVP: Unravel!]] It's all legible from the files you don't want to look at, because you lock them up there. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I am telling you that this is not to be mentioned in the Minutes of the National Council: This is why the investigations are undermined because one is still pretending to be under-examination. It is not just about the files that have not been submitted. It is also about the files that have been sent literally in the last second, which are under copyright ban. And in this case, in terms of money laundering, organised crime, political intervention, only of Austrian banks. 15 000 pages have been sent over the last few days. If you tell me now that it's possible to open this up, then I know where I've got you in addition to what I'm supposed to be. But it is pretended to be still under investigation. This is still to be transmitted to the larger perfidia, blackened files, than not to transmit any files. Of course, it is an emergency act of a political group in this House that today it is making a urgent request to present certain documents, which will also be addressed, which will not be sent by the Ministry of Finance. – But in truth, the problem is a much bigger one, and I am now addressing these announced cases. The witnesses Sleep and Wallner have not appeared – for good reasons. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: What does this have to do with the urgent request?]] – Mr. Federal Chancellor out of office, please explain why you can pay free flights to Sofia by these circles and then what you have done there – and link You're not always in between! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Lentic: Go, please!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Last-class!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] I quote from an act: Background information on the person of the Mikhail Chernoy. Michail Chernoy is the predecessor of MobilTel, bought by an Austrian consortium, a consortium that has been loyally acting, and only for a Martin Sleeping Private Foundation, a consortium that has maintained its reputation until the time the deal has run, that BAWAG is involved with 30 percent, that Dr. Taus is involved with 30 percent and others. These hidden trusts – and that is what is stated in the investigation point 11; we have hit the very core – should only be disclosed to the Austrian banks and only to the Austrian authorities, but not to the Bulgarian authorities; this is explicitly contained in the trust agreement. Why? – Because it can be proved that Mag. Sleeping with Chernoy, who will now be involved, is in close contact because the Bulgarian authorities should be deceived because the Bulgarian authorities along this background info, which is reported up to the Ministry of the Interior, have been banned from entering and staying in Bulgaria for ten years, probably because he was choking the old government and trying to make the new pure table. That's it. Sleeping knew that if he appeared as a buyer on his own, he had problems with the license, one had set up a Trust-Hand consortium, which was completely unlit by the Austrian authorities in order to deceive the Bulgarians. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Schüssel.]] And with the help of the trade union bank, you are absolutely right. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: ÖGB-Akten, I said!]] – But Dr. Schüssel, you don’t think that Elsner is the only Gauner in this whole complex – or do you want to make us know? – At the latest at the end of the process we will see that! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: What does this have to do with the urgent request?]] But it is our job to investigate the political networks and the economic criminal coverage. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: We're talking about the tax records!]] Criminal law is practiced and practised elsewhere, you are absolutely right. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] On the basis of this background information in the SIS – part of the Schengen Agreement, Dr. Schüssel, which you always value – there is an invitation to tender in France: Risk and belonging to Russia's major crime. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Where is the connection with the urgent request?]] – I tell you the connection, after I have explained to you that there is a suspicion in Switzerland about money laundering, that the proceedings are open and that in Berlin there are suspicions of money laundering – why not in Vienna and Austria? – and this against the background that the following happened on 10 October. In March 2000, he was murdered in Perchtoldsdorf, Lower Austria, the father of Krassimir Stoichev, who has been a member of the Bulgarian Mobile Tel since the sale of the shares. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: It's not very urgent!]] [[Call the ÖVP: Narrator!]] It must be assumed that the murder of Krassimir Stoichev, the son, and mistakenly met his father on visit at that time. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: No proof, he said! Don't tell stories!]] I am now quoting a person who has just managed the committee, so to speak, from the protocol of the confidential meeting just made available. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... has said there is no spark of evidence!]] And I would like to thank Parliament's management that this was still possible, because it is not always possible to get ahead and support the work here. The information person – I don't want to mention the name, it's certainly in the interest of this person – says, questioned about this process – stop interconnecting, would you have engaged in the committee, you zudecker! – that Chernoy is behind it. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: No evidence!]] [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ]] [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not read a single act and is now starting to shout hysterically. [[Abg. Rädler: I was in the committee!]] You know what? – Open up your additional merits, which is also the result of this committee so that you can know who is lobbying here, as is the case in developed democracies! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] The information person: “The fact that Chernoy was behind it, we knew it at that time.” (...) “... that the murder was to the Krassimir Stoichev himself, who was originally not willing to sell. But shortly after his father was killed, he sold very well, in fact, a ‘bet’ of 80 million...” And finally there are 1.6 billion, bought and paid by the Austrian Telekom, in which the public shareholder ÖIAG held more than the blocking minority. And now you're saying, It's none of our business, isn't it? – This is interesting, therefore, because the investigations of the authorities are constantly being hindered, and this is our subject of investigation! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer:... not the spark of evidence!]] Of course we're not the criminal police, but: Why is the investigation of the authorities being hindered? Why are the Austrian banks at the heart of this scandal? And why are politicians intervening? Why can't you intervene? Did the authorities in Israel sleep that this Chernoy gets a visa? Officials of the criminal movement have been able to record in numerous file notes how the proceedings were. [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] As a result, it has succeeded in preventing the issuing of visas to Mr Chernoy, but in several cases it has succeeded. In the meantime, I am reading you to stop yelling in between – perhaps there is still hope – from another file note before I quote from the Minutes: There is a record note here that it is clear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has intervened successfully for this Chernoy, by the foreign minister, and there are record notes that always may. [[Oh-Rufe at the FPÖ]] Sleep behind it. There are record notes that all the letters and faxes that have been written here are similar to cover and that only power. Sleeping behind it can be suspected. But I'll stick to the record. Stoichev said: I'm not selling it. Afterwards, he sold it. – This is, of course, a connection to the suspicion of money laundering – after all, what else? – if the property is changed in this way. And it is true that, as a result, other suspicions have emerged, because the accounts have been opened – the authority has done something, but it is hindered by politics and by economic networks – that the accusation of illegal party funding is now all in the files! – that it is about the accusation of the attempted bribery, probably from the sphere of sleep, – in Israel, well noticed, but anyway! It has to be explained why Minister of Justice Böhmdorfer has pushed Israel's application for legal aid – the Bohemian lawyer, now the attorney of Mag. Sleepy. And if Mag. Sleep, who has an agreement here in Austria by the Israeli authorities, weakens the date, just as in the parliamentary investigation committee, and Böhmdorfer comes and explains why he doesn't have time again, then this is inconceivable – or do you want to explain to us that this is nothing to us? And now to the SPÖ: It is a complete political-physiognomic miracle, as it is possible that with so little backbone it is still “stand” to make the ÖVP the robbers when it comes to fleeing from the responsibility for the parliamentary investigation and into the cover that is practiced here. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] It was...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16272	Mr Kogler! – Your final sentence has already been said. [[Abg. May. Kogler: My final sentence!]] I'm sorry, the rules must apply equally to everyone. [[In the case of the Greens and the FPÖ, please take a look at the box leaving the speaker's desk. May. Kogler.]] Mr Matznetter spoke on the issue of an opinion. The speaking time should also not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16311	Madam President. High house! It is not for the Government Bank to assess in detail whether an item on the agenda is allowed or not. He was called, so I may comment on the content of this request as follows: There are two requests for transmission of files to the BMF. Both are mentioned in the urgent request. ==References====External links== ==References== June. In both cases, the Federal Ministry of Finance has two days within – once by letter of 22. June, once with letter of 28 June. June – request the presentation of the link between the requested files and the subject-matter of the investigation. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Very right!]] I can remind you that I myself was already before the 19th century. ==References== In April, it was noted that the document requirements of a committee of inquiry should indicate the context, namely what is to be identified in the Committee of Inquiry. It is not enough for a reference to a standard point, but for the evidence to be collected. In the case of the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, this has been followed by the case at that time, which is why the BMF has made the relevant files – we all know – first with blackouts, then, after the establishment of a corresponding arbitration body, without what I welcome; it has not been provided for in the Rules of Procedure, but it is a good means – made available. Unfortunately, these two letters have not been answered until today. It is quite clear that this concreteisation can then be used in principle to assess whether the presentation is taking place. As a rule, this will have to be done. There is a second point which is important in connection with the so-called non-paper. The problem, which was raised there in addition, is whether this non-paper can even be the subject of a file. The Federal Ministry of Finance has, at the same time as the letter to Parliament, asked the Financial Procuratorship to comment on the extent to which a submission can take place here. The President of the Financial Procuratorate pointed out in his reply from the same day that the problem lies in the fact that so-called non-papers, viewed in international law, have a special position, and recommended that, in addition to the issue of the exact issue of evidence, clarification is made in the light of those provisions which exist in the context of EU documents in the so-called Information Security Act, whether there is no international obligation to follow. I would simply like to say that here, in addition to that, to the Committee concerned, I would like to point out that, if, of course, the US authorities – and I look at the chairman – who are, in most cases, unproblematically in the granting of approval do not object, then there is nothing in the way of a proposal for the Committee. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: See you tomorrow!]] – This concerns Part 1 as regards the basic presentation of the files. [[Abg. Sburny: Unfortunately there is no more file decision!]] Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, as the essential part of Mr Kogler's opinion has concerned another subject area around it, to say the following: I was informed in myself that in the presidency it was made that only 3 minutes were available for the opinion. Now it was a little longer, and I do not want to leave it that way, because of course it was allegations that the Austrian Federal Government would deliberately prevent an investigation into an object. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: What?]] I would like to comment as follows: Part 1: The task of Parliamentary Committees of Inquiry is – and I, as a Member of this House, voted in favour of setting up two things. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Firstly, the question of proper administration, i.e. what happened in the executive, whether the operations were carried out properly. Secondly, the question of the political responsibility of the relevant members of the government. This is the task of a committee of inquiry. He's not a substitute for justice, he can't be. And the task is to determine whether the committee of inquiry has been able to fulfil its duty. In this context, I should like to congratulate all the members of this committee, which is really for everyone, on the fact that it was a pagan work. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Above all, the SPÖ report!]] Both committees, but above all the Banking Committee – hundreds of hours! We know for ourselves that the ladies and gentlemen have done their duties until deep into the night. This is a task that is worth discussing, too, about what the consequences are. In this sense, I am referring briefly to what Mr Kogler has said. What is on the table from these committees – in that case from the Banking Committee – is sufficient to make it clear that time is to act. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] We must immediately resolve what has come about by changes in legislation, in the area of organisation. [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] As a financial location, Austria cannot afford to have only a shadow of doubt that the supervisory authorities are properly fulfilling all obligations. I think it is right and good when, after eight months, a lot of things have become known that force this action to take action and – with all the love and pleasure of the Forensics – not to examine three or four months and wait until the year 2008 for the reform. I say this without any cynicism on this question. It is also an invitation for all Members of this House, including those of the opposition parties: Work with this reform! I mean, not only in the form of the vote afterwards, but also in the process of implementing this reform. I'll be looking for this conversation. I know Vice-Chancellor Molterer is interested in such a conversation and in a collaboration. I also know it's reasonable. Why? – Because financial market supervision is a safeguard that must function and, if the suspicion of money laundering is given the suspicion of a false balance sheet, if the suspicion that equity is not sufficient, needs to react sharply and immediately and, as early as possible, that it does not result in a scandal à la BAWAG that it does not result in a process à la Hypo Alpes-Adria, that it does not result in 16 000 harms as in the area of AMIS. A backup should work before the short close and not after the fire. – In this sense, the invitation to you to cooperate. As far as I have been able to follow up the debate here, this is all the matters of the criminal authorities, Mr Kogler, whose place Parliament cannot and must not go. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Wrong!]] In principle, cases of criminal authorities cannot be reviewed in so far as they concern independent courts. That means that only the action of the security authorities and the prosecutor is verifiable, but not that of independent jurisdiction. That's why the interaction has to work. The perceptions that are there point out that they work. Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense I can only give the assurance of the BMF, in responding to the demand for concreteization, to carry out the entire transmission without delay, with the reference to the problem of the non-paper, and by the way: Acting if you notice it may be better than examining a few more months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16459	We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16487	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary Matznetter, if Finally, you have said that you are waiting for concrete action in relation to the two files that we have requested, and will then cause delivery if the specificisation is sufficiently justified, and at the same time we know that, following this debate, we are voting on a deadline request with which this committee is to end, then we know what we are on your side! [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the FPÖ.]] [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter.]] But allow me to deal with this act a little bit closer. It was in December 2005, when the U.S. Embassy made a decess – let's call it a depesche – to financial market supervision. The financial market supervisors responsible for money laundering have taken the view that from this depeque, from this secret paper – please, read this in the files, Mr. Colleague, in the documents, that's what stands in there! [[Abg. Krainer: Wrong!]] – Suspect moments FMA... – First FMA and later BMF, Mr. Colleague! [[Abg. Krainer: In December it went to the BMF! ...! It was only in January!]] [[Abg. Krainer: Reverse!]] At any rate, suspicions relating to money laundering concerning banks RZB and BA-CA were expressed. This has clearly been said by the staff on money laundering matters in the Committee. Later, an official of the Ministry of Finance was in this committee and he said – he called this paper, that depesche, “secret” “for government use only” – that there are no suspicions as to money laundering concerning banks RZB and BA-CA. And he wasn't alone with this opinion. No, two other officials – more precisely an official and an official – were involved in this conclusion. So it is little wonder, Mr State Secretary, that you do not want this paper out. By the way, you are using an opinion which you have commissioned from the Financial Procuratorship, a subordinate department of the Ministry of Finance, which I only say. That's what I'm saying anyway. But let's look at that in detail, what in this letter dated 28 May. June's in there! First of all, it is said that this is a non-paper which is not to be subsumed under the terms of the file. It was neither dated nor signed, therefore it was not an act either. We have never, by the way, asked for an act, Mr State Secretary. If you read our request, it says that we requested a letter - that is exactly the letter from the U.S. Embassy - and the corresponding files, namely those that should provide information about what happened to this letter in the Federal Ministry of Finance. So it's also said that it's a non-paper. In this context, the “Salzburger Nachrichten” of 31. ==References====External links== In a legal opinion of the Financial Procuratorship, the financial news is quoted! Yes, not even the citation, Mr State Secretary, is correct, because not even the quotation marks are indicated. You don't even know where this quote begins and where this quote ends. But end up doing it with the sentence – I quote now –: Although a non-paper is received, in fact it does not exist at all. - Quote. [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] That in a legal opinion of the Republic of Austria, of the Financial Procuratorship! Furthermore, in this letter of the Financial Procuratorship (or the Ministry of Finance) the classification of this document is taken as a strictly secret occasion in order to point out that international law arguments, possibly international restrictions, can come into play. These restrictions, then write later, would be to check. Yes, have you examined this or have you not checked it? And why didn't you check that out? – I can already imagine why you have not checked this: Of course, they wanted to take time to wait for this committee to finish. Furthermore, you point out that it is at least necessary to obtain the approval of the American Government. In the context of the subject matter of proof, this letter – and you have pointed out that there is some connection to the subject-matter of investigation 11, which deals with money laundering. You have now said that a flat-rate view is not enough to produce an act. If that were the case, Mr State Secretary, then we would not have received at all a single act in connection with the investigative mandate given by Parliament to the Banking Investigation Committee. But maybe we should read: What is the subject of the investigation 11? – In there, it is about examining the question of whether and how state institutions act against it when Austrian banks participate in transactions that serve to conceal ownership and money flows. If Mrs Florkowski – that is, this money laundering officer in the financial market supervision – says that there is a suspicion of money laundering in two banks, and you want to make us aware that there is no connection to the subject of investigation 11, then I think that is a perfidy, that is immense! This leaves only one conclusion: In this way, you want to keep the Committee from providing important evidence on money laundering issues. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are thus hindering parliamentary education, for which the Committee was responsible on 30 June. In October, a clear order was given. At the time, Mr Matznetter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but also Mr Josef Cap, you have spoken in favour of this committee of inquiry. They have spoken forcibly to put these objects of investigation, which are now hidden, which are now to be hidden, on the list of the objects of the investigation. But the act relating to the Raiffeisen Central Bank: It is significant that, as soon as we begin to investigate banks of the black half of the empire, the Committee will be strangled. For months we have examined the BAWAG matter to the smallest detail. We've been investigating Atomic. But now that it is a matter of brilliant things in connection with money laundering, of party funding, where the black half of the empire is concerned – I only say RosUkrEnergo as a keyword – everything should be hidden. However, this also applies to party financing. The ÖGB tax documents, together with their political groups and Stiftungs et cetera – all of them – have not been transmitted to the Committee either. The reasons given? – In turn, they were extremely thread-proof. In turn, we were asked to clarify what the subject-matter of the investigation has to do with the act and vice versa. Well, when it comes to party financing, it is very obvious – and there are obviously both parties agreeing, the ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP and the ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ – that it is always good when you get together and encourage the cover-up and cover-up. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] If you, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP – and Mr Missethon has already spoken of a flower-white vest today – have a flower-white vest and if so for your banks in your [[Abg. Wheeler: Yes, yes!]] I do not understand why these files will be abstained from the Committee. But then I do not understand why witnesses who have been requested unanimously by the committee have not been able to be questioned, but who have no longer found a majority due to the time pressure. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: They don't have the tax records of the ÖGB!]] So: Dr. Herbert Stepic or Dr. Walter Rothensteiner, where are these gentlemen? Why do they not appear in front of the committee, as other Directors-General of this country have done with other banks? [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: We're talking about the tax records!]] – Mr President, you know very well that we had the two directors of the Hypo Alpe-Adria there, the predecessors of culter and Mr Berlin. We had all the directors in charge of BAWAG today. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] We also had the current Director-General of BAWAG. And here I can only point out: It is turned off, hidden and hidden.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16638	Mr President, you are already enormously aware of your speaking time. The next speaker is Mr Krainer. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16662	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of my group, I can say that we are following the legal basis of the President here, that we are actually talking about a request that is not at all present because it is not in conformity with the law, but is illegal in itself. [[Abg. Strache: Then why is he on the agenda?]] [[Abg. Dr. Bösch: Why was he called?]] Nevertheless, I have two sentences to say on the content. The first is: Yes, there were problems in the committee with the file template. Yes, it has improved in January with the new government, because then much more rapid and extensive requests for evidence have been answered. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That was more than two sentences!]] And I can also say to this area of the ÖGB-acts: Yes, we have nothing against being presented. Only what I said in the committee last week: Of all subsidiaries and associated companies, the balance sheets are in the data area. And if someone believes he sees more in the tax statement than in the balance sheet, then that can only be related to the fact that he cannot read a balance sheet. But then the question arises whether he is able to read a tax declaration. [[Abg. May. Kogler: So much ignorance is incredible! And that's what financiers are!]] That's why I'm not quite clear. We have agreed, but I also say quite honestly: If the Committee is over, we will not ask for new files either. Much more is not to be said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16758	Mr Magnificent came to speak. Donnerbauer. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16779	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think we can bring a little peace and substance into this discussion. I think that would be very necessary, Mr Oellinger. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] First of all, on the formal objections of the President, which she has very clearly explained to us: We also share them on behalf of my group. We believe that this request is contrary to the Rules of Procedure and is therefore not acceptable. There's nothing to add to that. But there are not only formal reasons, I think, for the content of this request is extremely worrying. This is because constitutionally protected rights, i.e. the right to data protection, are affected. Now we are no longer surprised by the Greens that the confidentiality, which was a legal claim and a legal order in the Investigation Committee, is not worth it – they have proved it several times. Mr. Pilz has even been sentenced by a court to break this legal confidentiality, which is expressly contained in a judicial decision. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Completely wrong!]] But not just that! Now try another way: They are trying to bring private circumstances of citizens, which are legitimately protected by constitutional law, to the public, here to the plenary, and thus to open up without regard. [[Abg. May. Kogler: By lobbyists!]] My dear friends. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we have to get it to the point: Human rights and constitutionally guaranteed rights are only important for the Greens when it comes to protecting violent chaotics from legal persecution. Then they always got up and have
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16849	Ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to take this back.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16865	That's not an injunction. Unfortunately, we have already had to observe this in plenary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16883	Ladies and gentlemen, I shall give you a call for an order.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16901	Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to reassure the citizens of this country: We, the Austrian People's Party, will continue to protect them from such attempts by the Green Group.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16935	I call Mr Strache. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e16956	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I understand that Mr Klubobmann Cap must be plagued by a bad conscience today. I also understand that his face has come up with something and he looks very pale today. I understand this and I can understand it, because it must be a bad thing for you to do this way of bocks, as it unfortunately did the Social Democracy on this question of God. Today, we experience a negative example of democratic behaviour – if, in a follow-up, a proposal for a deadline is tabled by the great coalition with which we want to turn the Committee of Inquiry. We are experiencing a negative example of parliamentaryism, we are experiencing a negative example in the field of control. In fact, you have taken action to make it different; you are making it worse today than it has been in this House in recent years! You must have a bad conscience, Dr. Cap! [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] I understand when the speakers from the Austrian People's Party and Social Democracy come here to the speaker's desk and find it worth just a minute's time to get a position. This shows a total of this bad conscience, if even your own representatives from ÖVP and SPÖ stay away from the spit and nothing more comes of it. That's significant enough. [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] When we consider that, for 18 points in the field of financial market supervision – banking, atomic, et cetera – there is an order from the House to review these, and three of these 18 points in the investigation committee have not even found treatment – because you have been hindered by black and red to this day, because you have been hindered by the fact that the Banking Investigation Committee has been given sufficient time, because you are going here today and not only hindering, but even turning around to fulfill this audit task – then this is a democratic and control-political scandal that you are doing the best today! [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] Point 14 of the Audit Order: “Investing whether the Federal Minister for Finance” – out of service – “Karl-Heinz Grasser as the supreme body of banking and financial market supervision due to a personal close or dependency relationship with persons or decision-makers of banks or banks. Credit institutions’ ‘or, because of other illuminating circumstances, these banks and/or banks’. Credit institutions, in particular as regards their supervisory and control obligations, have benefited or benefited them.’; [[Abg. May. Kogler: Meinl Bank!]] [[Abg. Oils: Right!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Donnerbauer.]] This point has not even been dealt with today! The Minister of Finance was invited on the boat, on the yacht of Mr Meinl. Obviously, this close relationship has also paid off; today it can celebrate a new career leap in this close relationship. This clearly shows that you want to cover something very consciously here. That is exactly where you are not willing to give this committee the time to review this. In the last few weeks, you have even contributed to the fact that your behaviour – especially the ÖVP – has contributed to the fact that there is nothing more going on here than you have stated in the public: We are going to turn to the committee anyway, it has to take place in the July plenary session. You've made that public. They have, as Mr Kogler rightly said, even publicly invited those witnesses not to comply with their witnessing obligation and to be apologised, as Mr Finanzminister, except Karl-Heinz Grasser, or Austro-Oligarch, Mr Sleepf, and as the others may call it. They have invited these rulers to do so, in fact, in order not to comply with their obligations, because they will be “turned” to the Committee anyway. - That's incredible! You didn't even hide that. There's one thing you've got to fix. There is a nice quote: “If you want to recognize the character of a human being, give him power!” – This has once been said by American President Abraham Lincoln and thus was right. [[Abg. Großruck: Who's that from?]] If you want to recognize the character of a human being, give him power, then you see how he deals with power. You go from the SPÖ with the power you have today, unfortunately, no different from the Austrian People's Party. In recent years, the Austrian People's Party has conducted a policy under the former – and elected – Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüssel, for which it was rightfully elected. And you from the SPÖ play no other role today than the BZÖ. They play the new BZÖ in the Federal Government, which is willing to serve the ÖVP policy, around and play everywhere. It's sad. [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the Member States.]] When it comes to increasing parliamentarism, and ultimately also increasing our control rights, you are also laughing; it is still funny for you. There is a grin, there is simply uncashed, completely naughty “packed. ” Apparently, behind the scenes, they have already been told how to support each other. It has been explained here that on the one hand you are allowed to score a little bit on the outside in the question of Eurofighter – instead of 18 then only 15 “Kampbomber” that you are now making possible; there is a bit of a pocket player trick being played – but at the same time the SPÖ of the ÖVP helps to turn off the banking investigation committee. [[towards SPÖ]] This is exactly the method: In the background, there is still a diligent “packed” of posts, and we experience here permanently in all patterns of action and behaviour of both parties that the motto “speed kills” is continued overall. We have already experienced this as an example: The agenda shall not be communicated 24 or 48 hours before. It is true that, in committees, the Federal Chancellor also wants to record agenda items and make himself ridiculous with them. This has, in fact, not been feasible in this way. They are not here to make policies in a way in which Parliamentaryism is basically not to be properly managed. We have to show this on this question. That is why the urgent request made by the Greens today is good and right. He was not put on the agenda for nothing, but because the President obviously assumed that he was in conformity with business rules; otherwise she would not have put him on the agenda. Only when the Federal Chancellor, out of service Dr. Schüssel, came to the plan and said, can and cannot be seen, did the SPÖ move happen, and suddenly the SPÖ did not see him as conforming to the rules of business. There is no mention of the BZÖ anyway, because if Mr. Schüssel snaps with his fingers today, the BZÖ is there automatically; completely indifferent, which contents are behind it. [[Abg. Ollinger: That's right!]] [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] – You immediately no longer want to recognize business order content! Of course, this is in conformity with the rules of business, because you have done just as well on the example of the Eurofighter Examining Committee, defined it in the Presidential and made sure that, of course, files are presented – as provided for in the Rules of Procedure – and are not blackened. That is exactly what the Greens and we, too, want to ensure in this area. We want to be able to review and transmit these files, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, – this is prevented by the Minister of Finance! I'll finish. We experience that you also have the naughtiness - I clearly say this - to say that it is correct to turn off a committee, although you have not dealt with three points of examination, and then to think that the Committee chairman would draw up a regular, correct and comprehensible report within two days. [[Call the ÖVP:But hello!]] How's that going? It was not until today that he received the last files requested by the committee of inquiry. Only today did he get more files. For weeks, for months, he waited for files – until today, not all the files that the investigative committee has requested have arrived with him. How is that supposed to work? You can't even take yourself seriously if you ask this procedure critically once. That's not serious to take, that's just disappointing! Perhaps very briefly also the two other points you should not forget: On the one hand, the casino Jericho issue, where more than 100 million € were placed in the sand or where you have become active through false value adjustments. That too has not been checked up to date! We have not yet been able to review the possible financial flows towards party promotion. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion: All of this is not the way to deal with a control body that has been set up by Parliament itself. You just have to fix: They endanger democracy and control in this country – and we cannot and will not watch!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17119	Mr Bucher. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17142	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Strache, who also referred to the BZÖ. [[Abg. Strache: That was just a marginal note!]] I also give you an elegant answer. On all the councils, of course, I tell you: Talk with your Mr Graf, the chairman, about the role of the BZÖ in the Committee of Inquiry in the eight months! We have worked very constructively with all the parties represented in Parliament. We have always voted in favour of both the requests for evidence and the pre-loadings and have brought us in constructively. Finally, when we saw that it is not reasonable to put an ultimatum or a final act and this at 2. To schedule July, we have said that is fundamentally unreasonable. – That was our personal attitude. You will not want to agree with us if we have our own opinion on the Committee's action. [[Call to the FPÖ: This is a single opinion!]] – That's not a single opinion, that's our opinion. As a group, we also have the task – and hopefully also the understanding of everyone – of having our own opinion. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have said that it makes no sense to inform all those whom we have still set before us – 23 people in the number – that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will be present on the 2nd day of the year. July is over. It was clear that the 23 people would find some reason to escape the committee and the survey! Suddenly, any faxes or e-mails were received every five minutes with reasons such as: am on vacation, am on duty, otherwise have any important dates. We said we didn't do that, that's not good. If you read the press releases of the last four months from me, you can see that I said: Let us interrupt the committee. [[Abg. Strache: It has always been interrupted! He's interrupted today!]] That would have been the most reasonable, the smartest solution. Three, four months ago, I suggested that. [[Abg. Strache: But the Westenthaler says something else!]] That would've been good! On my recommendation, Mr Graf has already interrupted. I said to interrupt! That's been done too. But – I have already said – we should wait until autumn. ==References== In October, the ordinary courts brought proceedings before them. Only then would it be reasonable to put the Committee back into force and continue our activities. That would have been our proposal. That would be the smartest way to bring light into the dark. So we are all in front of the dilemma, the ÖVP, the SPÖ. The SPÖ argued quite differently here eight months ago: Now we'll find out, discover, reveal! – Now she does nothing but cover, cover, cover! I mean, that's not nice, either, if you have to listen, how you all wind and turn. That is something that suffers from the credibility of the whole house. Our view is: If we remain solid and serious, let us postpone the committee until autumn, then we still have enough time to think about the summer! There's going to be a lot more on us. Nor is it right, not serious, to draw up a committee report, ladies and gentlemen, if we do not know what is being promoted in the coming weeks and months. Let's be honest: The most important persons have responded to their survey! We did not find out what was really the reason, just as we are not going to find out now, which is the reason why the SPÖ suddenly turns off the investigation committee. We don't know, we're guessing. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: That belongs to investigation!]] – That should also be examined, Mr Graf! Of course, we suspect everything possible, but we do not find any confirmed statements on all these suspicions. We will therefore not agree to this urgent request from the Greens, although we have the greatest sympathy for it, Mr Kogler! We also agreed in committee that we obtain and receive these evidences, but also that we treat them confidentially when we have them in the House. This should be our task and duty – not that we MEPs and possibly parliamentarians should go to the public with it. [[OBJECTIVES]] We do not give good service to the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17286	Mrs Pilz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17308	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Madam President. I think it is time to protect your legal position here. ==References== In May 2007, the Eurofighter Investigation Committee informed us of the procedure you identified in the transmission of sensitive files and, as I quote literally, informed us of the ‘rules on the confidentiality of sensitive files transmitted to Parliament’. That's why I think – as this was already the case by the President on 30 July. May has been clearly stated – the criticism by SPÖ, ÖVP and BZÖ of the President's attitude is simple and simply presumptuous. It is no different than to allocate these files to Parliament, because the President has to decide what kind of confidentiality she then passes on to the committee of inquiry. This, according to the Rules of Procedure, is a task of the President and not of the Committee chairman or of the Committee Committee, and the President has always carried out this task for satisfaction – at least our Committee of Inquiry. That is why I am seeking to join the President's view of the ÖVP, the SPÖ and the BZÖ. We need legal certainty in this House, and this should not be disturbed by the great coalition. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] Secondly, A representative of the ÖVP has stated that this is a question of personal rights. – I ask a very simple question: With the help of SPÖ, why does the ÖVP use the suffocation of the Committee on the Protection of certain groups of persons? Do you protect the personal rights of money washers? Does the ÖVP protect the personal rights of balance sheet counterfeiters? Does the ÖVP protect the human rights of the Eastern European Mafia and its liaisons in Austria? – Is this your idea of personal protection and data protection? Why are millions of unspoiled Austrians monitored via their mobile phones with their social security data? Why Fight You're just about the protection of money-washers, of balance-sheet counterfeiters and of the interconnectors to the Russian mafia? - That's weird. The only explanation may be that there are links to Austrian politics, with the Banking Committee standing in front of it – and I will come back to it – to question exactly these people. The focus is not on raiffeisen, although it is an important bank in this context and the topic of money laundering under the gable cross has something very important for the Committee of Inquiry. It is also no longer the BAWAG as at the beginning the focus of the investigations, but it is a network whose history has begun with the “operation coat of arms” in Singapore. The Operation Arms was a secret operation of the GDR's state security to smuggle high-tech goods from Singapore and the Federal Republic of Germany into the GDR to the combination Robotron in Dresden. The responsible informal employee worked under the title Landgraf. The Stasi-Acts inform us that the informal employee Landgraf is today a businessman named Martin Schlaef, residing in Vienna. – This is the beginning of the story. The contacts of the informal employee Landgraf were later used to do business in Eastern Europe. These transactions would not have been possible without the support of BAWAG and without the support of politicians of the Austrian People's Party and BZÖ. There has been a decisive visit by Federal Chancellor Schüssel in Sofia, officially to present there the quality of Bösndorfer slaves. And who better can introduce Bösndorfer-claves than the Federal Chancellor? What would be the Bösendorfer piano without the Old Federal Chancellor? – The trip was paid by Martin Schlaef. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. A fairytale hour of the fungus!]] The crucial discussion took place with Bulgarian government members, the subject was: Business MobileTel Bulgaria to sleep and its group must be carried out. It was a threat in the area that Austria would take a veto against the EU accession of Bulgaria if it did not come to this deal. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: This is a conspiracy theory!]] [[Abg. Kößl: The fairy tale of Peter Pilz!]] A similar intervention was made by the Deputy Chancellor and Minister of Infrastructure Gorbach, and a similar intervention was made in Belgrade. [[Subsequent calls to the ÖVP.]] In this context, this is even documented in detail by files. What was it about in Sofia? – A relatively simple story: There was a plan of the Sleep Group of the former informal employee Landgraf, with the money of the BAWAG, without equity, to acquire strategic shares at the end of Telekom Austria by making speculation transactions, possibly with the help of the former Chairman of the Telekom Austria, so in a further step one has converted the speculation gains that could be realized together with Telekom Austria in favor of the Sleep Group into shares of Telekom. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] That was the plan. [[Abg. Kößl: If you say that again, you believe it!]] This plan could be realized in the first stage in Sofia, despite the opposition of the Bulgarian government, which knew exactly that an internationally sought-after Russian Mafioso called Chernoy was the partner of Sleep and that the background was the Eastern European and Russian Mafia. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bitch.]] It was bought cheap, and Telekom Austria already documented in an early stage by sending a leading Telekom man, namely the highest person in the company, in the Supervisory Board of MobilTel, which was the intention. Surprisingly, Telekom did not buy MobilTel himself via a subsidiary, via a limited company's legal risk, but said: No, there must be a third party here! [[Call the ÖVP: Is it possible for you to get to the point?]] This now cheaply buys the sleep group with BAWAG funds, with Elsner's support – without backup – and shortly later Telekom says: [[Abg. May. Kogler: Without backup!]] Yes, now that it is offered to us by 1 billion € more expensive, it has become a bargain from the whole, now we invest and now we buy. Without doing anything, the Landgraf/Sleep/Taus/Cordt/Elsner Group earned € 1 billion with a single cut – with the support of the then Federal Chancellor, with the support of the then Minister for Infrastructure. [[Call to the ÖVP: A bottomless understatement! Incredible!]] [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: No success with Eurofighter – now he protects everyone else!]] The same game should be repeated in Serbia. The Serbian Prime Minister has personally set himself up as a Wehr. Who was in Belgrade several times in January 2006 as a negotiating group? – Mr Schlaff, Mr Nemsic and Mr Gorbach. This was the three-member negotiating group that supported the sleep project. Gorbach was a simple negotiator of the Sleep Group and has been sent from Sleep to Belgrade at the expense of the Sleep Group to do the same as before in Sofia. This has only failed because the Serbian State has perceived its interests, has carried out a bidder procedure and has bought away a Norwegian company of the Telekom of this company in the short term before the nose. [[Abg. Kißl: That's a premise! A community without equal!]] Nevertheless, the Sleep Group was able to make hundreds of millions of euros in this context – with the support of parts of the Austrian Federal Government, with the support of the Vice-Cancellor and other members of the Schüssel Government. [[Abg. The fairy tale hour is over!]] What does this mean when, at this point, on which the trial committee has not even been consulted, the bowl, Gorbach and others have not been strangled? – Yes, do you think a court will examine political responsibility? Yes, do you think a dish will investigate the Sofia adventure of the Bösndorfer player Schüssel? Yes, do you think a court will examine the financial piano arts of the Old Federal Chancellor? – It cannot be a court, it can only be the Austrian National Council, it can only be a committee of inquiry. Because it is now about Gorbach and because it is about Schüssel and because it is about ÖVP and because it is about BZÖ, this investigation committee is strangled; strangled by an ÖVP that does not want the long way from Sofia and from Eastern Europe to the party headquarters of the Austrian People's Party to be traced and implemented by an investigation committee. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: A bottomless understatement, dear friend!]] [[Abg. The fairy tale hour is over!]] The only rare thing is the support of SPÖ. It is a pity to lie next to the ÖVP and to keep her lying in the bar is acrobatic admirable, but politically ridiculous and sad. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the FPÖ.]] And it is a shame to the SPÖ that their State Secretary here does not represent the interests of the Austrian financial centre, because the Austrian financial centre can only succeed if it is clean and if we prevent any political protection for money washers, for balance sheet counterfeiters and for the Russian mafia and their hindmen in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17535	The next item is the report by Mr Graf. [[Abg. Dr. Stummvoll: To the Rules of Procedure, please!]] - Excuse me, just a moment. Deputies Dr. Stummful, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17570	Madam President, I would like to ask you to lift Mr Pilz's speech and look through it from the Stenograph Service. This was a series of formulations, which I believe to be a call for an order. I would ask you to look through the minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17605	Mr President, I have listened very attentively to all the speeches, and the assessment of whether or not a call for an order is to be given is the President or the President-in-Office. - I'm just paying attention to that. Mr Graf has now been notified to the House. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17629	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! ==References== Dr. Günter Stummvoll came to my chair in the Banking Investigation Committee on June 2007 and said: Dr. Graf, wear This is why we are now raising the financing of SPÖ, as it was in the muddy at the time! – I would like to read this request to you. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: No, I didn't say that!]] The Federal Ministry of Finance is the addressee, and the request is: all the tax acts including all the notes, supplements, supporting documents and other related documents and documents relating to the Austrian Trade Union Confederation from 1994 to 2006 on the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, all the political groups of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation – that is what we have changed when you remember, because you only wanted the red sub-union unions, not the trade union of Public Service – and companies, businesses, foundations and entities to which the aforementioned ones are economically assigned. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the FPÖ and the Greens]] Dr. Günter stupid, you came to me. I told you: Mr. Dr. Stummfully, if the item 15 of the investigation order can be clarified or a contribution can be made, I am of course on board. But all the sub-union unions and not just the red ones have to come in. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: We did!]] - We did. Thank you for not forgetting that. It was a business-conform application, which then went through unanimously after a long discussion with the SPÖ. [[Abg. Rädler: Where's your problem?]] Today I have a urgent request before me, addressed to the Federal Ministry of Finance – we are currently discussing it – which reads: “all tax acts including all file notes, supplements, supporting documents and other related documents and documents for the years 1994 to 2006 concerning the Austrian Trade Union Confederation (ÖGB), all political groups of the Austrian Trade Union Confederation, companies, companies, foundations and bodies...” And so on and so on. A word-ident application – suddenly illegal to business rules. [[Cheerfulness with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] – Unlawful of the Rules of Procedure. Something has changed in this country. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The Committee is over – that has changed!]] And that is exactly what has marked the entire Committee of Inquiry from the point of view of the EIA: If the ÖVP wants it, then it has to happen and it must be good. If the ÖVP does not want it, then it must not be in this Republic. - That's exactly the mark. If you initiate a request, wordident, that's all right, then everyone has to carry it along, still on the grounds: We therefore raise the item 15 on the party financing of the SPÖ! So we're on the subject of investigation. The fact that the SPÖ is playing now leaves a side effect. In the end, a characteristic can be found: The first two-and-a-half months of this investigation committee were marked by displeasing Federal Minister Grasser, shooting off the SPÖ to perhaps put the leader of the political group in coalition negotiations in place. It went out as usual: There's no grass, but the ÖVP didn't let you run; Matznetter has only become State Secretary. [[Cheerfulness with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] In recent months, the whole issue has been continued: You have to destroy the FMA, the board of directors have to leave. We haven't even heard from Krainer. I've always asked him: Do you want to become FMA's Board of Directors now or something similar? Is that the goal? – Now there is the package, it will go out as always: [[Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter: What does he want?]] The crane will not be, but one of yours will be there – but as the second man behind a black one. As will always be the case in this Republic. [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] You're probably poker around the National Bank for this. That's where you want to put the good man Novotny, who already acted quite well in the Cuba crisis. I will also deal with the present; You will hear a lot more from me in this context. We are discussing today, and it is remarkable when Mr Matznetter – who has changed the fronts very quickly – is not sitting here in the House, but now on the government bank – majestically speaks of the government bank when he thinks himself. This is good, I support – and that has been quite well with the quote: “Give power to people...”; I like it. Matznetter says: It is only possible to act when examination committees are over. - Where is that, except in the government programme? – [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] And the government programme binds the government parties, but not the Parliament! I should like to remind you of this, Mr President. Even if you see little distinction, I'll try. [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] It is not possible to act until investigation committees have ended. Only then can we introduce reforms. And investigation committees may only be used if criminal courts have completed a trial – Division ÖVP. That is to say, now we have to wait for the criminal judgments, then we have to wait for investigative committee results, and only then can a government begin to act. - It can't be! It must also be possible to rule when an investigation committee meets. They have already set up nine research committees of 16 in the Second Republic. Didn't you rule there? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: me?]] – Not you personally, the ÖVP. But I know with history you have little to do with hat, or you always want to remove the part of the story that doesn't fit you. Mr President, today you have received this package of files that you have requested from the Committee, but your report does not contain them. How do you deal with this? - I don't know, it doesn't matter. That the investigation committee is strangled is no longer a secret. There's a bigger package behind that. Now you can work, let's see what comes out of the mailer. A Mr. Treichl even goes so far, in the public just before the end of the investigation committee or before the proclaimed end on 23. June to say: If there are links with owners and management – interconnected, he said – in the banking, insurance or money area, the door and door opens for poor to corrupt behavior. A professional owner can prevent much. State or union as owners are a problem. I wouldn't have gone that far. Your party-goers and party-friend Treichl goes so far. But if he himself sees corrupt behavior in the banking landscape, then it must be examined when the ownership situation is interwoven. That he's sitting in the glass house himself, I wrote to him. I would like to thank Mr ÖVP for reminding me that I can write Treichl an open letter – I did it, you saw it; I hope you like it – otherwise I would have forgotten it over time. He himself is the head of the foundation of the First Austrian Spar-Casse Privatstiftung, and this is the majority owner of whom? - From the First Bank. Majority owners of the First Bank. He's still the owner there. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Discuss a successful bank, yes!]] He says: If links between owners and management occur, corruption will open door and door. – His words, not mine! He's got a connection. That's exactly what the states in this country are. You're gonna want to make it worse now. They still have banks in the National Bank, which should then give themselves the task of auditing. There will be no consent from the opposition. If so, then a committee chairman on 21 May. In June of this year, the request to set up a subcommittee on the constitution of a draft report and to reject it is not interested in having a report. I also proposed that a report be prepared in parallel, as in the Eurofighter Committee – you voted against it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Muted]] I don't think that's how you deal with Members! Then I'll say one more: Research committees in the current form, with this attitude, as they have SPÖ and ÖVP, are dead and still in the future, because what benefits is a minority right – we already have a minority right – if the majority opposes it to the minority's business rules?! - Eight months! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: We were very active for eight months!]] Mr President, after your Members have slept for 400 hours in committee, today you are only talking – well, let us say – of little meaning on the subject. [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] Why do you want to prevent us from clarifying why the perpetrators from the BAWAG affair are still being handled gently? Why is there no overall responsibility of a BAWAG board of directors when he puts 20 billion schilling in the sand? Why is a Dr. Koren still there and manages the business, although he was co-responsible and has also approved the transfer of €438 million to Refco? Why are people still sitting there? – This is the interesting thing for the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: The courts will clarify this!]] – The courts do not clarify this, he has not even been charged, Mr. Cot! Why is a Mr Zwettler, the last Director-General, going for a walk with a pension of €500 000 to the present day? Why don't you do anything? – The Examining Committee has promoted all of this and much more, but before you are bent into the right half of the empire and finally checked the entire interveners on your side, you have persisted at your coalition partner and strangled this investigation committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17836	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. Time left: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17857	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! It is interesting to observe the attitude of colleagues in this discussion. Mr. Ex-Bundeskanzler Schüssel was played quietly, tried to play over his nervousness, tried to play around with his cell phone, wave in his files. Colleagues, too, stupidly assisted him in a playful calm. This was obviously played because Mr. Schüssel did not stand it any longer, he obviously left this hall because he knows what is behind it and which sourries are really hidden here. Mr Donnerbauer, if you are talking about "fine" here, I must say to you: Remember, please, your work in the committee! They were also bored there. I can well remember that you did not make institutions to cooperate in carrying out the investigation order. If you're talking about "schnüffei" here, I have to ask the question: Did you even understand what that committee was for? They apparently didn't understand. But you're going here and you're insulting the people who really take this assignment seriously. That's the picture you give off the ÖVP, dear rulers! And this is not the picture we want from this Parliament! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Secondly, the entered mines of the Reds. – It is also interesting to see how you react. It was good to see how in the course of the Committee you have contributed a great deal to clarifying what is to be explained. In the last few days, we have been able to say, Mr Cap, perhaps you can explain this to us, that interest in the Enlightenment has been falling very much. It seems that we have tried to ask questions about Mr Krainer and Mrs Trunk – questions that were really no longer serious. That means: It's quite obvious that you went to the knees here! I just want to know what you got so you can get to the knees here. – A good picture, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, don’t give it up! You have not followed up on your own mission to conduct these investigations. A embarrassing picture for the SPÖ! I'd be in your place. This picture that you have delivered here also shows where the way to the future will go. And that is really the sadness of this situation! But now, just to the subject of the investigation Hypo, which has been treated a little bit until the end: In the course of the whole discussion, we not only insisted that in the case of swap losses €330 million were put into the sand, that in the case of speculation gains, where there is also a short-term use of grow-up around Tilo Berlin, €150 million were thrown, but we also insisted that within a short time, €1.4 billion was therefore placed in the sand, because a large operation, a hanging sign Carinthia, was sold under the price. This is a loss for Carinthia of about €2 billion. This amount goes down to the Carinthian economy and all of us. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] But that was just an attempt to investigate outwards. What really is behind it was only shown in the course of the committee. And, dear rulers of the ÖVP, even if you do not want to do so, even the international press has found out what is happening in Austria. You certainly know this article from the Hamburg newspaper “Die Zeit” and know what is in it. That’s what it says under “Dark Businesses, Secret Agreements” – I quote –: “The asymmetric cooperation between Carinthia and Istria began in August 1999.” Surprisingly, the head of state came Haider. “Nearly Haider had left again, his bank came. ... The then house bank of the country of Carinthia has since financed all the important real estate deals in Istria.” And there came shops on the day like: 374,000 square meters of sea and sea floor purchased by 5 € and sold around 200 times. With BZÖ-Finanzexperte Neudeck. It is quite clear that in the event of a speculation profit of about € 1 billion, there are suspect moments like money laundering, party financing, corruption and so on. These are things that could now be clarified! My lords, if you go here and turn this committee off, you'll excuse yourself if these things stay covered. [[Call the ÖVP: You're criminalizing!]] They are responsible for the fact that no information can be made. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Something else, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: There is already a request for legal aid from the State of Croatia to reveal these dark transactions. And this request for legal assistance is before the Committee. In other words, you are responsible for the fact that the State of Croatia is also losing money that has gone into dark channels here. – Summa summarum: a single embarrassment! And I can only say one thing: If this is to be the image of the ÖVP-SPÖ coalition in the future – Mr Cap, I really ask for answer from your side – then good night for this republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17925	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. We are now voting on the self-employed amendment 259/A(E) by Members Kogler, colleagues and colleagues on submission of documents to the Audit Committee on Financial Market Supervision, BAWAG, Hypo Alpe-Adria and other financial services. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[16:35:05]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e17961	We now come to the brief debate on the request by Mr Strache, the Banking Investigation Committee, for reporting a period of 30 days. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, pursuant to paragraph 57a(1) of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18000	Madam President. High house! Since at least formally I have no other request on the table, except for our request for deadlines, to give the Committee time, on the one hand, to hear the unsolicited information persons, whose cargo was decided by all political groups, on the other hand, to include in a committee report the material and the appropriate protocols, we have put this request to the Committee for a deadline of 30. In November 2007, a debate was held and a debate was held on this subject. I would like to say at this point: Since ongoing documents have been received that have been ordered by the great coalition – not at all by the Freedom Party – such as the “Fit and Clean Test” today, and since we have not been able to work on this in our report and since documents are still missing, I have determined what has been provided to us in the last two and a half weeks of documents. The following documents have been received: 28. June: Financial market surveillance acts relating to RZB/money laundering. 28. June: Also, money laundering assets relating to RZB; Documents relating to Moldovan National Bank; Financial market surveillance Hypo on money laundering Brodosplit and financial market surveillance BA-CA on money laundering US message, Zagorec. 25. June: 16 Folders of the Federal Criminal Office and the Federal Ministry of the Interior. I would remind you that in the Federal Criminal Office, the money laundering office is located and we have already decided this as the item on the agenda in October of the previous year, also submitted a file transmission request, but it was finally the authority that then said to our originals at the end of May, why the files are still not there: You have to clarify this to us! And we then clarified it by saying: We simply want to have presented everything we asked for! However, we did not want any suspicions where Austrian citizens, after the anonymity collection of savings books, were promised by SPÖ and ÖVP in 1994, that the anonymity of savings books will never be abolished if we join the European Union, but it has then come a little different – when changing their savings books was a little negligent. And then there were hundreds of thousands of reports, and of course we didn't want to see them, but we wanted to see something where there was a suspicion that money was being washed, especially in connection with the East Mafia. To do this, 16 folders have come. A folder has about 500 pages, so about 8000 pages of file material are on 25. Come on June. Unfortunately, there was no sign of hearing people. I could now, as it were, legitimize what has only happened to files in the last three weeks. I have already mentioned that our request to set up a subcommittee, which was rejected by all the other 15 committees of inquiry in the Second Republic, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. We wanted to set up a subcommittee in parallel to the end of the committee – and we are towards the end of the committee; admittedly, at an exciting end – to preserve parliamentary rights, to draw up a report together, even if there is no joint report, but only a majority report, to sufficiently preserve minority rights and to produce a minority report on the basis of this majority report, and to uphold the single parliamentary law you do not value. [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You prevented the report by interrupting the session! We wanted to discuss a report, but the Obmann Graf has interrupted the meeting!]] Mr Donnerbauer, your report or your personal dissenting opinion would be a white paper! Mr Donnerbauer, at this point the question is: After 395 hours of sleep in the Committee, what personal dissenting opinion will you give on my report? [[Violent calls at the ÖVP]] - Not at all! [[Abg. May. Donnerbauer: You said no more minutes in the committee than I did!]] They agree with me in principle that a subcommittee, a so-called report committee, is being set up to produce a report. In 15 out of 16 committees of inquiry in this Republic, this has happened. Now I'm asking: Why has this been rejected this time, not only as some believe, recently, but already on the 20th century. June? Why has this been rejected? There is no apparent good reason for this, I would like to hold on to this point, unless there was no report from the house to Parliament – that is now no longer to be said – to lead to the National Council! If one had this intention on the part of the great coalition, then this plan was so to speak, that one did not want a report to contain the results of the studies. That's what it looks like now. 16 research committees took place, 15 of them worked with a proper report and 16 of them. The Committee shall be prevented from reporting. In this subcommittee, it could be disputed whether enough hearing persons have been loaded or not whether, despite all of this, one makes a report as to whether one confesses to the gap or not. This is then a political decision. But this opportunity to not even grant is unique in this Republic! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] Now also a word about this so-called “non-paper”: This “non-paper” in the U.S. Embassy, which has come to the attention of interest, namely the fact that the political groups who did not know it – the ÖVP knows this “non-paper”; that is the joke of history, but it just does not want us to share in its knowledge, because it knows what is inside – was sent to the Ministry of Finance, namely to Mr Lejsek as responsible officials, and he said: This paper consists of four pages, with the following on the first side: Only for government use!, the cover except. That means the cover sheet is not secret in this paper at all. But that means nothing but that the American Embassy itself or the government did not want anything but that this paper is not a “non-paper” because otherwise they would not have explicitly pointed out that a page of it is not secret. That's an indication of that. For Mr Lejsek – and this is the suspicion – this is quite different, because he says: This is a paper that does not deal with our objects, and therefore I give it back to the message and say before I pass it on in the official way, for otherwise I make my fingers dirty myself: The right place is the money laundering site! But in the committee he said it wasn't a money laundering act. But there he said: Keep it to the money laundering centre and the Federal Criminal Office, which is to the money laundering office of the Financial Market Supervisory Authority and the Federal Criminal Office! and he will lead it then. And they do. And suddenly this paper becomes a “non-paper” because what is a “non-paper”? This is about the kind of request that we have dealt with before, which is a “non-proposal” and which has nevertheless been dealt with. So it's about in this matter. We were not concerned that we always wanted to see personal data here – I said that from the first day on – but it was only about me that I wanted to have someone responsible next to the blackness – and one can quietly blacken out when it comes to such data – who is talking and replying why he blackened. This is the minimum level in which this committee of inquiry must, as it were, be placed on its back legs. Otherwise, it's pointless. And if – and this is unique in the Second Republic – a Minister of Finance Grasser was invited to 17 topics of the subject-matter of the investigation, but does not appear because, as he told us, he has to make more important appointments in building up his new professional activity – Martin Graf's comment: with his personal friend Meinl, obviously – and if that still covers the ÖVP, then we must say: If a committee of inquiry has a political responsibility to review and one is no longer even prepared to hear or load those who are politically responsible, it has actually led itself ad absurdly in its very own capacity. This is a bad service to parliamentarianism that you are doing here these days!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18064	I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of Members who have now spoken is 5 minutes. Mr Klubobmann Dr. Cap. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18089	Madam President. High house! I'll stay with you. It was useful that there was this investigation committee! I also believe that he has done a very important job. And I also insist that the chairman has performed his duties as chairman very well and very objectively. Nevertheless, I say: At the end of the day, he is easily seduced not to draw the line between objective chairmanship and the acting of an opposition politician, with a slight approach by a prosecutor occasionally. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I took an example from the fisherman!]] But I still think that this was all right. And the many public who have so far brought the results of this committee of inquiry was good and right. I mentioned this with the Presidency because I would ask you to take care of it, because I know that there are votes in the EIA which believe that, after a reform, no more Members will have to hold the Presidency in a committee of inquiry. But I'll stay with you. In future, Members will continue to have the chair of the Committees of Inquiry, namely the opposition. And I also insist that we in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure have to ensure that there is a minority right to implement and set up an investigation committee in order to forward it once. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] However, I would like to say something about this: Since Easter I have said – I have discussed this with Werner Kogler, I have also discussed it with Martin Graf – that there must be a time and subject plan, because I think it is wise to end this committee before the summer, in the interest of the public. And I think that's feasible. There was a lot of time lost, including at the Causa Atomic. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The ÖVP has blocked!]] The ÖVP has delayed in the beginning, that's right. However, I believe that the time management and the way in which you designed it are also responsible for standing here and saying: Now there are those files and that and that and that! And that is, unfortunately, the truth. I would also ask here not to act as if it had been in vain that this investigation committee had been set up. Be proud of what he's done. It was a lot of work. We must express our thanks to all the Members, to the club secretaries, but also to the staff of this House. One should also act responsibly now in the final phase, if there is a somewhat harsh climate between us at the end of the day. I would also like to stress this in this context. And then there's something else to say: I have heard with interest the speech of Mrs Pilz, and I can say: He has, I think, quite put it to the point. I can remember that in the last week in October, there was a fine here from us to the prosecutor's office, in which a lot of things he said were recovered. Then: I believe that there are many things that the Committee of Inquiry can work out, can investigate, but there are also many things that ultimately have to do with justice. And I have a bit of an impression that this border crossing between justice and what the investigative committee has to do is not always very clear. In the interests of setting up the Committee of Inquiry, however, it would be important if we were always very careful about this border crossing, otherwise the Committee of Inquiry would be damaging as an institution; otherwise, this leader could really start where it is said that we are loud inquisitors, self-proclaimed prosecutors, it is only a question of persuading people there – all those voices that do not really want this establishment of the Investigation Committee. It would have been nice if a written report had been possible – I must say that – but the opposites that existed between the different groups should not be underestimated. [[Interlocutory calls from Deputies Mag. Stadler and Dr. Haimbuchner.]] What the Examining Committee has certainly achieved: It has provided enough substance for a comprehensive reform of financial market supervision. I now look very closely at the EIA, because we want to do this together because we are both in the government. We want the financial market supervision reformed, because we want Austrian savers to be able to develop confidence in the banks in real silence. That as a mere poker or post chess or anything else to defamate does not help at all. If there is a red and a black man sitting there and a Murk coming out again, this is a serious damage to the banking location, to the banks and a great danger to the savers. Therefore, we would all be well advised to look for a structure, but also for a suitable occupation, which is not – what the honourable Member has suspected Strache – merely a post-chaker and a hitchhiker, but in reality the responsible search for a solution in the interest of the savers. [[Abg. Strache: Battlebomber there and... there!]] So, as before, I still feel: It was right that this committee had been there, and he has worked successfully!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18175	The next item is Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18196	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I confess I really cannot understand the lamentation of the opposition about the end of the committee. Why not? . This committee was known to be set up by four political groups against the votes of the EIA. We were against it because we said: On point 12, the allegation that our banks in Central and Eastern Europe are so successful in large-scale money laundering is a criminalisation of the Austrian financial centre! [[Abg. Strache: Has confirmed itself at Hypo Alpe-Adria!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] The majority relationship has not changed. Mr Graf, you as committee chairman have a lot of powers under the Rules of Procedure. They were on the side of those who always had the majority – always the majority! Even when I proposed to change the time priorities, preferring other things, you have prevented them from doing so through Rules of Procedure. As an example, I call the landing of Dr. Taus: Dr. Taus himself publicly declared last year that he wanted to be loaded before Christmas. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The files have not been there!]] When I made this request twice in the new year to invite Dr Taus, the request was not put to the vote at all, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The files were not there!]] I do not want to use the term “hypocritical” now, for this could bring me a call for order, but it is already very strange to argue today: The really important people were not there yet! if one has the time and the majority to prefer these people for eight months. Yes, you would have done it, Dr. Graf! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Dr. Taus only remembered that he intervened politically when we held the document!]] Admit: How many times have I told you when we haven't found dates for weeks, please interrupt and continue the appointment the next day! You would have had the power, but for that you were too cowardly. – You have to say that quite honestly. That you've always let the reins be sanded in time was also obvious. Dr. Graf! I have often said that I agree with Mr Cap; I have said it publicly and also in committee: From my point of view, you have largely guided the Committee – of course also in relation to Mr Pilz. [[Abg. Murauer: It wasn't hard!]] In comparison to what I heard in this regard, your Presidency was undoubtedly much more objective, no question at all. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Say something for deadlines!]] But I have always made an accusation, and I agree with Mr Cap: You've had the time reins cut, and you haven't used the majority you've had to invite those people in February or March of which you're now saying: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: On 8. You've already claimed that on November!]] Those were the most important ones, they're not coming in now! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I didn't have a majority!]] So, Mr Cap! I'm sorry, I didn't want to insult anyone. Mr Graf, this is really not honest if you argue like that now! You would have had this opportunity at any time. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You have your mouth full, Mr. stupid, but no more!]] I also have to say: In the case of all joint government activities: Mr Cap, we will reform the FMA, no question at all. There is a need for reform. But one thing I would like to say: As a People's Party, we have always had a clear line, and it turns out now... [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: Cover, hide, that's your line!]] Yes, keeping a line is always good, Mr President. – Mr. Strache, you will also insist that line keeping something good and a zigzag course is always something bad. [[Call the FPÖ: That's right!]] Mr Cap, we are not for a zigzag course, but we are on the line. [[Abg. Strache: Cover, don't reveal! Cover instead of discovering, that's your line!]] I say to you: I should like to point out what this Committee of Inquiry for the Reform of the FMA has re-opened. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Did you know that Taus and Ferrero-Waldner intervened?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] He confirmed what the government parties have written into the Coalition Pact. There it says: There is an interface problem between financial market supervision and the central bank, there are double tracks, the efficiency is inadequate, there are too few suburban checks. – That is exactly what the Court of Auditors has confirmed! And the Court of Auditors has also said – this is a central statement! – that financial market supervision, initiated by Karl-Heinz Grasser, is a progress towards the former system, but the goal of the greatest possible use of synergies has not yet been achieved. Mr Cap, we will therefore take up this reform, but once again: Not because of the Committee of Inquiry, but because we have already anchored it in the Government Pact, we have promised to each other and the Court of Auditors has fully confirmed what is contained in the Government Pact. That is why this reform of financial market supervision is going to take place, but not because of the Committee of Inquiry, which had the objective of criminalising Austria's financial centre, which we end up with, because the Committee is over!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18458	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18481	Madam President. This fits again in the picture that the investigative committee obviously had an order to criminalise the bank place. – You only have to repeat what you said once more, and that fits in with your line. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Point 12!]] It also fits with the ÖVP line that you actually always keep: that it is not about investigations. – You do not want to do that, because you voted against it, that is clear. However, this has nothing to do with a clear attitude in Parliament, but simply by seeing these banks as the government's extended workbench and, in the sense, abuse them, only quite as extended workbenches of the party headquarters. – That's the fact! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The only thing to clarify is why the SPÖ is now also using the government bank and the parliamentary banks as an extended work force of the party headquarters. Mr Cap, what you have said has nothing to do with the deadline proposals. It is true that six more points of investigation are open! – That’s why it is, and they need to be examined! These are the points that the SPÖ has made. Both Bulgaria's deal and the Raiffeisen Investment AG and RosUkrEnergy history have, above all, been rehearsed by SPÖ in this application, one has to say almost rightly. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And Jericho!]] Now it is not just about investigating the criminal courts – we have discussed this – but about the fact that political responsibility is also being examined and should be examined further, why certain criminal activities are obviously favoured by certain ministries and why the last sincere officials who are still fighting are so difficult. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] You should read the minutes of the committee, the statements of the few witnesses we have had. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 6,000 pages!]] This is where the Federal Criminal Officer announces that he has tried to get in touch with Deutsche Telekom. Do you know how this happened? – During the meeting in the Director-General’s office, this 15 minutes looked at his shoe tips and then congratulated the officials. And he says: You see, and so we always do if we want to raise economic crime! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Because the Sundt and the Sleep...!]] This is the state in this country that you want to cover, and this has one thing to do with the subject of the investigation, because it is about money laundering, which makes sense in terms only when there is a pre-crime when there are criminal acts. We are at the heart of these actions, and that is why we now have to turn off – consistent with you, bent with you as always. You have to ask yourself how you can still fall so flat. You've already reached the Minus-One level! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Bitch: Digged in!]] In this respect, the expression “body in the basement” fits well. - You're right there. But if you're already in the basement, maybe you should help bubble these bodies. There is enough material in the files over there, and we may be able to get the files on Friday, if the committee of inquiry is here in plenary. Then let us look at the Members of Parliament who are able to deduce from the files and who have the courage not to agree to an extension of the time limit for the Committee. It is just a blush, Mr Cap, whether the FMA is a negotiating object between ÖVP and SPÖ at government level. You have already written that into the government programme – quite rightly! It's been reformed a long time. That is why you joined a resolution by the Greens last year, where essentially all the points raised in the Court of Auditors' report were already included. So this is not a success in negotiating, if you say you used the U-committee as a fist to achieve something from the ÖVP. Do you know what you've achieved? – You have reached a resolution, and we will experience on Friday that something will be discussed or decided in autumn, what is already in the government programme and what the opposition has already brought in last year. Then, when you were still in the opposition, you agreed. It is likely that the proposal, which is now coming, is much thinner in content. – This is your success in negotiating, and you are willing to sacrifice the instrument of parliamentary Enlightenment! Mr Cap, you have undertaken to walk through the corridors as saviors of the U Committees in autumn. They want to negotiate this as a minority law and so on. Yes, you are now the personified proof that the establishment of investigation committees must become a minority right, because if you now change the fronts on the open track in such a way that the majority still have it in hand to deal with the audit mandate of the majority in its decision You yourself were there, and if you leave everything in the middle of the river, there is no better evidence that the establishment of investigation committees must become minority law, including evidence and requests for evidence. – You succeeded, anyway!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18601	Mr Klubobmann Strache is next spoken. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18622	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The deadline proposal we have tabled today is really the only correct procedure for dealing with this committee of inquiry. – If you don't mind, you won't be able to do it! We have to ask – I can only hold this once again! – take the inspection order seriously. It cannot be said that a majority in this House is setting up a committee of inquiry, which defines 18 points to be checked, where social democracy was involved, and then the Social Democrats say that they are now withdrawing the 18 points they have brought in, they now no longer want to know, but only 15 points, and the three are simply letting them fall. – I can't do that! That is why, I think, it was also good to delete the example with the character, because if you have power and the possibility, then the shawl tones will not benefit you, Dr. Cap, then you will benefit from the phrase of minority law, which you want to strengthen, nothing if you do not even take this audit task seriously and let that investigation committee end if you are not ready to hear the still open 16 witnesses! 16 witnesses are missing until now – in addition to the three open points – and it is therefore necessary to give this Committee of Inquiry time to question the open 16 witnesses and to be able to deal with the points extensively. That would be the case if a judge or a court conducted a trial and then did not question all the witnesses and, in a matter of two days, came to judgment. – That can be so, please, the rule of law is not correct, so it simply cannot be done by the rule of law! At each ordinary court, all witnesses have to be questioned, and then every ordinary judge has three to four weeks to make a correct judgment and a final report. The same thing must happen here, too, if one takes a committee of inquiry seriously. Of course, it also applies that, after the end of the work of the Committee of Inquiry, it is three to four weeks to draw up a report. The fact that there was no report in the field of RDP is obvious, for you would have preferred to have turned off the Committee of Inquiry in December 2006. Even then, you asked: What further checks do you have for? They wanted to keep covering, all right! With this alliance between sleep, Taus, Elsner and bowl, which has also come out, it is clearly visible that one has no interest in perhaps illuminating these close contacts and felts. - I understand. If Mr Stumpfully says that he cannot understand this, it is clear to me that he really cannot understand a lot when it comes to checking money laundering and party financing and having no interest in the EIA. That's clear to me. And if you have been looking for a consensus from the ÖVP, although our Committee of Inquiry, Dr. Graf, has always been looking for consensus, for months permanently to hinder or not want all the dates and dates that all other political groups see positively, then it is apparent that in reality the Austrians must be protected from the hypocrisy of the ÖVP, because what you have given for the best is pure hypocrisy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What would change if the opposition hadn't been pressured in the last months? [[Abg. Morak:... did valuable work!]] After all, you and Mr. Finanzminister Karl-Heinz Grasser have spoken about the fact that FMA is a financial police force, as it can only be desired. – And now we have just heard that this is not the case? [[Call the ÖVP: The FMA!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's the FMA!]] Now, do you admit that this obvious Mafia cartel, which has watched this painting development, which has become possible, should be a great financial police if a Mafia cartel can operate without any detection? [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Who is the “Mafia cartel”?]] So please, this shows that it is necessary to counter this development with which you simply want to continue. You should be ashamed of yourself! You're blockers, you're smarters, you're the ones who really want to protect oligarchs and economic criminals, as discussed today, and you're the ones who don't want to reveal that! [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] They hurt this financial area, and it's really sad – you just have to fix it here. Probably will – and that is your goal! – end this as thin as the Eurofighter Investigation Committee, where you have formulated two quarters. It is likely that your results will include a quarter of a page from your side at the Banking Investigation Committee. – This is clear to me, but it also speaks volumes for what the people can expect from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18719	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask all the speakers to be careful in their choice of words. There are expressions that are otherwise to be considered with a call for order. [[Abg. May. Kogler: What should one do if the government protects organized crime? What is that supposed to mean?]] The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Also speaking time 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18750	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Friday will give us the opportunity to discuss the Committee's report. Therefore, I would not like to refer to the content of the Committee's report, but to the deadline requested by the FPÖ. We have just discussed this at the previous item on the agenda, and I have made our opinion very clear. It is, of course, the same thing that the SPÖ and the ÖVP are now doing: a deadline. Mr Graf, when we set a time limit, there is also the same dilemma that we do not know whether we will be able to see if the witnesses we want to load come, et cetera. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: We can do that! We will do this by the end of November!]] In any case, we remain with our presentation and with our proposal. – You probably didn’t expect anything else either: We interrupt the committee and drive on 1st. November on. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You can still do that! That's no contradiction!]] Then the ordinary courts are finished with the investigations and with the judgments. We know more, there are no more rights of withdrawal from the information, and we have free drive for the investigation. But I also say the following: If a new discussion arises in autumn, because new moments of suspicion appear et cetera, then we are in favour of calling up and setting up an investigation committee, because we also see the sense that these suspicions are being revealed – and that it also comes to a proper and more efficient session management and we do not stop for many weeks and months with AMIS and Atomic et cetera, where of course the contents are very spectacular, sometimes more exciting than any criminal novel we have at home in the library, but there is nothing to do with efficiency under the line. A more efficient session management would therefore be recommended, then we will be back in the boat.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18798	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request by Mr Strache, ladies and gentlemen, to the Banking Investigation Committee for reporting a period of 30 years. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[17:11:13]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18836	I will resume the negotiations on item 7 of the agenda. The next speech is by Mr Morak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18861	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. I had an appointment outside with the film producer Helmut Grasser, and somehow I thought about it: I am going to recommend to Mr Pilz, who has told us the content of at least five screenplays here! – I think the Austrian film would do quite well if you once worked on this platform, Mr Pilz! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course I see, I have to say that since this discussion all the mobile television has changed from a different point of view, because perhaps not the European Championship is guilty of us getting into such a hurry – which, by the way, the ORF does not have the rights yet, I say that again – but perhaps Martin Schlaff, Taus, Cordt, and as they all are called, behind it, and therefore the woman was put under such pressure that we still put this on stage in the last print, in the last week of the session before the summer break! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: Again a conspiracy theory!]] In the case of these many conspiracy theorists who are dealing with this issue – and I say tax-free now that I declare to my colleague Pilz to be the Lord seal keeper of all imaginable conspiracys in this House; You're doing really well!; Anzengruber is called the Darker and appears in the “G’wissenswurm” – of course, it remains to be questioned whether the whole mobile phone TV is somehow an action that will land in Chechnya, with a NGO, paid with blood chocolate and at the same time also uses sleep brother. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: With two “f”?]] – In this case, of course, with two ‘f’. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, one should see the whole law and question this law, including the competent Metternich authorities, which will be carried here again, which will basically be responsible for all these fantasies. We still have this discussion process ahead of us. But I believe that all that we have taken on good conscience here, under our perception, is far away, but is quite simply mobile TV. And I think that what we should see as a coincidence and what we do after a 15-hour round of negotiations – so much, I would say, we have spent together; that was somehow a nice time! – as a result, not only with regard to mobile TV, but also with regard to the fact that we have an agreed commitment here that we find the connection to Europe as far as the media authority is concerned. [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Kukacka]] And in this sense, I would like to say, it was worth the effort. There were exciting negotiations – controversial but in the final effect: All right, all right. Mobile TV's here! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18925	Next, Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18946	Mr President. If, after this somewhat adventurous speech by Mr Morak, I have noticed that, I believe, there is a rule of procedure that we are allowed to speak freely here – he has always congratulated us on previous speeches from the government bank in recent years; since he is down there, he has apparently become more free and can say what he has just come to mind; thus, at least from the point of view of speaking, a clear progress with Mr Morak – come back to the law, it is certainly clear that the mobile TV will come to Austria. [[Call to the ÖVP: You didn't understand it, Mr. Brosz!]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: Jessas! Go, let S' do these stupid teachings! You need that!]] The regulations that are now in the law – and therefore it was also unanimous – I believe try to achieve the balance between the private and the ORF, which is not quite easy, especially in the field of advertising regulations. This is certainly an interesting chapter, and this is also one of the two points where we find that you should have looked more closely or seen if this was really so fortunately chosen: 10 percent advertising at the ORF, which can be played on the mobile TV – that is, one tenth of what you get paid and played on your mobile phone as an advertisement. That's not little. And the question is also whether this will be accepted by consumers and those who will pay for it. The second point, which is still questionable from our point of view – but one has to look at whether this works now – is the deadline for the application, because, of course, for those who are already prepared, a two-month Frist, which is now coming, will be enough, but especially the non-commercial television channels, the smaller television channels – from pulse TV to gotv – all the possible things that there are – that could also be interested can be quite concerned with such a relatively short tendering period, which is now to come, or have difficulties to implement it. That is why we agree because, on the other hand, of course, the argument with the football club is already staggering to a certain extent. This will certainly be the incentive next year to get more involved with the first packages. In this respect, it is somehow a balance between speed on the one hand and, on the other hand, ensuring a certain phase in order to be able to prepare it serially. However, this is now designed in a limited time. In this respect, there are possibilities to intervene accordingly in the coming years. To sum up, we believe that the rules are in principle correct, and will therefore also agree. I will now come to the Committee's conclusion – unfortunately, Mr Cap has already gone. I don't know who wrote it, perhaps also Mr Morak – in view of the speech he gave earlier? This is already a special kind of committee determination! – Such a person would actually have the meaning of working out possible ambiguities in the law in interpretations. But if it means – I quote –: ‘The Committee assumes that... Talks between the two coalition parties are beginning”, and this is decided in the Committee, then the question is whether a protocol has been accidentally forgotten by a conversational therapy and was then voted on immediately, for this is a testimony to the government's unculture. That Parliament's Committee with all five parties should still decide that talks between the coalition parties are taking place, this already has a special charm! – It is not in that all parties are to hold talks, namely through the independent media authority, but only the coalition parties. By the way, Mr Cap has made it clear that he also wants to talk to the others about it – although the suggestion that might change has not been received. So this testimony, apparently, of the difficult family life of the Coalition was very impressive. We'll take it up well, too. In this sense, we hope at least that there will actually be talks and that this important project by the independent media authority – where we have always said that we support and support it – will be so that it will not end with an amendment at the last moment, but that there will be a serious phase of preparation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e18993	Next, Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. Voluntary time limit: Six minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19014	Mr President. High house! I come back to the committee's treatment, which has ended with a unanimous outcome from the parties. This is therefore an agreed and successful act, which has also been necessary and which, if I may say so, has been the subject of rounds of regulations which are fair to all aspects of interest. Of course, there is no question that the future of the entire TV development is focused on mobility and that the mobile TV regulation has also been necessary by means of legal regulation. However, it must be noted – apart from these parliamentary correct and good additions, that there are unanimous or very largely multi-voiced materials – that the events in the Constitutional Committee are already very worrying and parliamentaryly complainable. Instead, we will have to return to this situation at the next point of the programme of this House. But on the Committee's statement – my previous speaker referred to the fact that the Committee itself is buying something towards the coalition parties: “The Committee assumes that the decision making of the Novelle to the Private TV Act, the ORF Act and the KommAustria Act to introduce mobile terrestrial television in the National Council immediately begins discussions between the two coalition parties,” – must that be? It is also possible to form majority groups in the House without so uncannyly to camouflage the existence of non-coalition parties in the parliamentary event! This is also a case of parliamentary and democratic hygiene to be able to abandon such inconsistencies. I don't understand how you think such a style is the right one. [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Brosz.]] It was much more marked by the events in the Constitutional Committee that, literally, a second before the start of the Committee's amendment to the Civil Service Law Act, which de facto has the whole matter of law. In the first version of the then interrupted session, there was not even a reason for this extensive 38-page law! The The reason was exhausted in 13 line points. – This is not a style for which you can expect happy side noises of the opposition. Whatever the case may be: Of course, there will also be our agreement to this law here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19068	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19090	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! The creation of the legal basis for mobile phone TV – we should not shut down time – is important so that mobile terrestrial television can also be received via mobile phones that the changeover in this area – in place of DVB-T, for example DVB-H or DMB – is adapted to low resolution devices, to the screen size. That's all right. The ORF will also be co-participated here by a change of the ORF law. Two programmes are broadcast there, which are in this area. That's okay. As far as advertising time limitation is concerned, this is controlled. That's, I think, even so far all right. Something that bothers me a little bit is that on this occasion you don't think about one thing: The consumers who receive ORF via satellite and don't have an ORF digital card don't see practically the first and second programs, but are just as obliged to pay the GIS fees, because it's just because of the acquisition of a terminal device. I believe that a lot of things should be considered about how to deal with them in the future, because for many people with special needs, which are often exempt from the various GIS fees and according to § 51 para. 2 of the Telecommunications Fees Regulations have limited the exemption to five years, often living practice is that this exemption is only limited to one or two years and often has to be rescinded almost every year. In addition, the GIS also seeks to reject this exemption by all means. There is something we should think about, namely that people who are familiar with us in this context – it is more than 100 people we know there, who have an increased need for care, also have family and do not have it so easily in life – are exempt from this fee, because they cannot see everything from the program. At least the messages should be transmitted in sign language if we already have the disability equalisation law – we are also guilty of a lot of things. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In this regard, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, I think you should give your assent to this motion for a resolution, because it concerns, above all, people who do not have such an easy time in life.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19175	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19282	Mrs Bures has spoken from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19304	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased that today we can adopt a novel with a very broad consent here in the Austrian National Council – not only because this novelle meets a desire of the industry, but also because we will have a pioneering role throughout Europe with the legal basis for mobile television to be decided today. Mobile services – and this has been shown not only on mobile television and on mobile Internet, but also on portable MP3 players – are among those areas where we have particularly strong growth markets, where we also create additional growth markets, and this, in turn, leads to additional employment and a further boost on the labour market. I think that these are enough reasons for the new Austrian Federal Government and politics to formulate its objectives, namely that mobile television should be made possible in Austria. And we are creating the necessary legal bases here today. It has also been mentioned that as a target date, the football Em 2008 is called in Austria. I think it is true that such major events also guarantee a successful market launch. There are many examples in the past, too, that such major events in a market launch have given a better opportunity and have been a driving force for technological innovation in the media sector. I would just like to mention that, for example, the 1974 World Cup has for the first time led to the broadcasting of colour television, or the 2006 World Cup in Germany has supported the broad introduction of flat-screen televisions. That is to say, there are good examples where such a major event has resulted in a successful market introduction, which, as has been said, also has a positive impact on the national labour market. I was told at the beginning of January that I would like to see to it quite quickly that we enable mobile TV in Austria and make an appropriate call for proposals. However, it has been shown relatively soon that the Austrian legislation is not sufficient for this to happen, and that is why we are going to be able to do so today. decide jointly on the appropriate basis. I would like to thank all the officials of my home who, within a short time, in just four weeks, have drawn up a broad-ranging paper which is available to you today. I would also like to mention that it has been very important to me that we should all be involved in the market on such media policy issues, that we actually use a review phase to ensure that we really involve those ideas, ideas and concerns that exist on the part of the industry and all those involved in the field. I therefore held a very broad discussion with the media industry and believe that we have a truly balanced compromise today, a compromise in which there is a balance between the interests of the industry, the desire for diversity of opinion and – which is also very important to me – consumer protection, especially when it comes to youth protection provisions. This too will be an important element in the mobile TV. I believe that it has really succeeded in offering an attractive programme – I hope, even with a fair price; Experts speak of costs from € 3 to € 7 per month as a basic package. I believe it was important to agree on the cost reduction and fixed price so that it does not involve costs and debt, especially among young people. I am pleased that the introduction of this new technology will enable us to create numerous additional jobs, not only for mobile operators, but of course for the market supply of new terminals on which television can also be received, but also for creative areas. There will be new programmes, new formats for mobile television, and this will result in us creating more jobs and further strengthening Austria as a technology location. At the technology location in Austria – you will surely know – we are already a pioneer in electronics chips for the mobile industry. Mobile TV is another important impulse that we set together today to strengthen the economic location and, as I said, the technology location of Austria. Based on the discussion that the speakers have put in place, I believe that despite the controversial question of the last few weeks, namely the possibility of ORF, it has succeeded in opening up this new technology and these opportunities for both private and public broadcasting, so that we have really found a satisfactory solution. We have also found a solution to the financing of this new mobile TV. It is important to me here that not fees and program fees are used, but that the ORF must also work purely commercially here. This is in line with a dual broadcasting system in which there are private TV providers and good public-law broadcasting in Austria. I would like to say once again that I am very glad that there is agreement today within the framework of a five-party agreement. It is a demonstration project for the whole of Europe that we can adopt today, and it is a project with which we also show that mobile television is an innovation project that will certainly develop intensively in the next few years. I am very glad that we have adopted this project together. We will, as we have said, open up an opportunity – and this was very important to the new Austrian Federal Government and to me – to increase innovation, to make more progress in the field of mobile television in Austria, and to a central innovation project for the next few years. I would like to thank all those who have participated in this process and the discussions. I think it is a positive step which this Parliament will take today with unanimous approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19370	Mrs Hlavac's next speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19391	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister! I would like to take up what the Federal Minister has said in connection with the review. I believe that this was a very positive step and it is also very positive that this proposal has been reviewed. This has not always been the case in the last two legislative periods that important papers have been reviewed. This made it possible to involve all interested people and those concerned and to reach a regulation that is obviously in agreement here today throughout the House. We have seen that this technology is already in a test phase, and we have been able to convince ourselves that despite the small picture surface, the images are stinging sharp. Therefore, I think that it will certainly be so important for the market launch in June 2008 at the football club that many will be interested in it and will benefit for the first time from this new possibility of television. But what is particularly important and what I am very pleased with is that Austria has taken on a pioneering role in Europe and that this will create jobs, high-quality jobs in a very modern technology area as well as in the creative sector. This is, I think, a principle that we are pursuing: wherever it is possible to create high-quality jobs and not compete with low-paid countries, but to do so where there is also the possibility for skilled workers. There will be a basic package and one or more premium packages. The Federal Minister has already said this: The basic package, which will offer ORF 1 and 2, ATV and some other programs, is expected to cost between €3 and €7. I think it is very important that there is a fixed price because we know that mobile phone use often leads to the indebtedness of households. In this case it is calculable, and therefore this is very positive. The whole thing is therefore very pleasing, and we therefore agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19432	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kukacka. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19453	Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Mobile terrestrial television – as Mrs Bundesminister pointed out – is another combination of broadcasting and telecommunications, that is, television with the mobile phone. This, of course, also requires some new regulatory choices. Therefore, it was important for the ÖVP to find a solution within the meaning of a dual broadcasting system, i.e. to create equal opportunities for both public and private providers, in order to provide the private providers with a level playing field with respect to the ORF. And that's necessary! If one reads the opinions on this law, for example that of the Federal Competition Authority, it says: Despite liberalisation, the Austrian media market is significantly underdeveloped. If effective regulation does not ensure fair development opportunities for private TV operators, nothing will change. That is why we are glad that in tough negotiations – and I would like to thank Franz Morak, above all – this novelle has succeeded in pulling the teeth of one-sidedness and creating a media policy order from a large ORF wish list towards a future-oriented and above all fair dual order. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Therefore, a short word to the ORF: It is gratifying and also in the interest of the ORF and its customers that he strives with great commitment also to extend his business field. This is understandable, even the ORF does not have it easily in this situation today: Its function as a Quasi monopoly disappears, German-speaking private television wins more and more supporters in Austria, there are video and feature film portals, and last but not least, today's law will lead to more competition. Therefore, the ORF also needs a new self-understanding, a new role in the future. It cannot be a matter of simply offering more commerce and entertainment in order to defend itself against private providers, but must continue to develop its public-law status and be particularly profiled in this area. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The previous leadership has been replaced, among other things, because it is alleged that it has not complied with this claim. Well, the new leadership under Wrabetz has announced great that it will create more public-law added value in the ORF. However, ladies and gentlemen, Peter Rabl and many others, Armin Thurnher, for example, have written what this has become: From the alleged largest programme reform of all time became the largest abdominal area of the ORF history. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore believe – and this is what we have called for in our committee statement – that an independent media authority should also have the task of examining the fees for their plausibility and determining whether and how the ORF fulfils its public service mandate. Whoever makes more and more commercial entertainment television, but does not create successful Austrian entertainment productions, can certainly not claim to raise fees. Therefore, the ORF will certainly have to do some previously neglected homework.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19525	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Prehauser. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19547	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mobile TV is also available in Austria – Finland and Italy there were pioneers – be possible in the future. I think this is a good step. Modern telecommunications should not be excluded and put on a standstill. I can easily join most of my previous speakers. From various points of view, you have clearly explained the advantages and disadvantages of mobile TV; I can join this. The Federal Minister – thank you for that too! – has explicitly explained the advantages and disadvantages here; I do not need to repeat this in the form anymore. She also said that there will be no extra cost for programs for consumers. In the novelle you can also read in the explanatory statement that mobile operators are invited to support the terminals so that they can also be controlled. Here, of course, it's going to be exciting when you know that mobile TV and mobile phones are mainly used by young people. Who is the primary concern of these needs for the costs? – It will be the parents. So here you have to see very carefully that the costs are to be handled and that third parties do not have to come up for something that the commerce wants to achieve, namely, as many customers as possible of this mobile TV. At the same time, I agree with the following. For example, if you know that Private itself is financed by advertising, the ORF itself, of course, also finds its revenue through contributions and other support, it is also interesting for the future, how it will measure how high the advertising shares are, for example, for broadcasting operators. Here I realize that on the private radio, hearing frequency is raised by the fact that surveys are conducted in the fixed network. In the fixed network: Everyone knows that the number of fixed-net connections is in the throes, that mostly old households still have fixed connections – and that should then be the cross-section of the population that takes radio coverage at a private level! Here, too, you should think about it. If you are able to make mobile TV, you should also be able to conduct current surveys in order to ensure a real cost distribution of the private competitors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19592	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I would ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take the places so that we can come to the vote. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 194 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Dolinschek, colleagues in the field of broadcasting charges reform package. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[17:45:38]] 8. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Application 255/A of Deputies Otto Pendl, Fritz Neugebauer, colleagues concerning a federal law with which the Civil Service Service Law 1979, the Wage Law 1956, the Contractual Workers' Law 1948, the Travel Fees Act 1955, the Father's Care Act, the Law on Procurement 1989, the Contributory Law, the Federal Staff Representative's Law, the Federal Equal Treatment Act, the Land and Forestry Law, the Federal Pension Law, the Federal Employment Law, the Richter's Law, the Land Teacher's Service Law, the Federal Teacher's Service Law, the Federal Teacher's Law on Teaching, the Land and Forestry Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the the the the the the the the Law on the Law on the the the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19671	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19702	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr. Federal Minister, if you're still staying or going? – This is an interesting in-between situation. [[Federal Minister Faymann has risen from his seat and stands at the government bank.]] High house! This is an issue that has already led to an uninteresting bourgeois nature in the Constitutional Committee, as I suggested earlier, of the seriousness of the exchange of arguments. I allow myself to join it. It's not that something is just good or bad, it's a mixture. I'll start with the good one. The good thing from the point of view of the opposition, and, I say, from the point of view of the Freedom Party, is that with the untold history of the school-festing bodies, which was largely due to the fact that nothing has gone further in the new order, in the urgent re-order of education and education, is now being concluded. That is positive and we are very much in favour of it. But, interestingly, in this context, there is also one, I say, jubilant information – which may be a bit exaggerating, but targeting in this direction – which the GOD has sent to their people as information to the relevant Service Law Novelle. The GÖD has succeeded in ensuring that, for the 2007/2008 school year, it is in principle possible to provide school-resistant jobs. – So not the abolition is in the goal, but the preservation, the receiving aspect is in the goal! In the school year 2007/2008, a maximum of 25 percent of permanent planned posts can be declared school safe. ==References== In September 2008, this possibility will also be eliminated, with procedures open until then. Nothing changes for teachers who already have a school-proof job. – So the famous story with the well-acquired right! This interpretation reminds me that we are dealing here with a legendary privilege that other servants in the Republic are hardly available and are closely related to the famous Sabbathical, which is so far available to only teachers. A man in the Republic, whose name I unfortunately forgot – but it was a failed person – said: Against the teachers' union, the railways' union is a group of ballet elephants. [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] The truth of this statement can be proved by the new order we find in the Novelle Service Law 2007 – unfortunately, it is not there, but it would probably be very pleased –. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Where is Haberzettl?]] To a large extent, this service law novel, I would say, is a sort of balancing balance of privileges between the civil servants' groups. Thus, the school-resistant positions will still be preserved, partially preserved by the teachers according to this division; in the other division abandoned, abandoned – that is the good part. As a compensation for the need for teachers to give up this privilege in part, however, another part of the officials is assigned the teacher privilege Sabbathical. I assume that all of you know: The introduction of a Sabbath rule for all federal servants – except judges, for whom it was also planned and thank God has not been implemented. Within a period of two to five full years, an exemption of at least six months and not more than 12 months may be granted against a partial reduction in the reference. Please, this is something that another worker in the Republic can only dream of in his most wonderful dreams, but can not see it realized: a firm job against a little savings, beautifully distributed, to find again. That's clear: One who goes on Sabbath and is in India for a year or has a side job in Guatemala for half a year or wherever, returns to his fixed posts. This is a privilege, and it is a covert of facts that are not to be described as privilege. I have already spoken in committee about the fact that I do not think it is necessary to cover up this fact. This is how you say about the large parties that you want to give a certain group of workers, the officials, a certain situation of privilege, for what kind of reasons – but they are not in the law – because you find it so good and right, which is not available to other employees. I miss a lamentation in the Socialists' Group, which is only prevented by the fact that officials' interests have grown roughly evenly there and are therefore afraid to suffer restrictions in the electorate due to the loss of group interests. This is a privilege which, by nothing to justify, still sounds relevant to existing unemployment, in times of job-risk situations on the labour market in general for workers who are not on the basis of such well-founded positions as a cock, and as a cock, the many thousands will feel in the Republic. That is why we cannot decide to give our consent to this bill. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19756	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19780	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I start with a short quote from the new GOD info. I quote: ‘The extension of the freedom of deduction of the so-called ‘return’ ‘Hackler scheme’ by the end of 2010 and thus the extension to the birth years up to and including 1950 could also be enforced in civil servants’ law (the legal regime has already been applied to the ASVG insured persons).’ I was having a good time reading this, because I thought: What does that mean “can be enforced ”? Things are all right, but if I see Dr. Schüssel here and my colleagues Neugebauer, then it has the pre-history that this hacker rule was abolished under Chancellor Schüssel. Then, in the coalition negotiations, it was not easy, namely, not easy for us to enforce this promise: 45 or 40 years are enough! We wanted to pull the poison teeth to the pension reform. This has also succeeded, and this is the last step, but this regulation in the coalition negotiations has enforced the SPÖ, and I believe that everyone has some of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This is not in the GOD info, and I wanted to add it here so that the historical completeness is given. It should also be borne in mind that improvements – and there are almost exclusively improvements – are also linked to an exchange, which consists of a certain narrowing of public administration, in fact, with the exception of schools, not all posts being re-occupied in retirement. The school is the great exception, where we will have around 1,500 teachers in Austria for the next school year, so that the quality can be improved and thus better addressed to each individual child. Education is also the winner of this Novelle Service Law, and I would like to make it clear that it is a good result, and the negotiators – Minister Bures, colleague Neugebauer and their teams – can only be congratulated on this result. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] Let's start with Lifelong Learning: The Sabbath – my previous speaker has seen it critically – is now being extended from school to almost the entire public service. That is to say, those who have been employed for five years can be exempted for six to twelve months in the event of a partial reduction in references, and in many cases, we know, this exemption will be used for educational purposes, i.e. for something of which we all have something, if the qualification is increased. Another point, and this is very crucial, is the equality of Masters and Diplomas degrees from universities and universities in the public service. This issue has accompanied us since the creation of the high-school programmes in the mid-1990s and is now finally being regulated. Here again, I congratulate Minister Bures, who has taken this step, on which we have worked for many, many years. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Then the school-students: It would almost have failed in the school places. This has primarily to do with school quality and with the fact that the school is primarily there for the children and we have to set up the school in such a way as to ensure the best possible teaching. No one has the intention to cross and cross teachers, but when I think about that, for example, people- Should teach language in a kindergarten for a few hours – a Turkish model, very successful – or to the school-related models where primary schools and AHS work together, these are only two examples where it can make sense that one can also be moved from one school to another, which will also increase the quality of the school system. These are some examples of where simply the former schooling institutions were an obstacle. The existing procedures will be concluded, and there will be no new ones in two years. Some people like this to go too slowly, but I think that this is a very good and, above all, a consensual solution. There are a number of other points to be addressed by colleagues: Social exclusion, better opportunities for women to get to leadership positions, and so on. One thing is common to these laws and measures, the law conveys a clear message, namely: Better times have come again for employees in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19859	The next speaker is Mr Neugebauer. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19880	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Col. Dr. Fichtenbauer could only find a good approach in this Collectionovelle, Service Law Novelle 2007. – I discover several good approaches. The disillusioned Sabbathical is the opportunity to enjoy time exemptions for partial reductions in references in order to take advantage of, for example, training. A very modern work, a good approach to working time flexibility. And since the word "privileg" has been strengthened here: After the Duden, it means that it would be an unjustified advantage – and I cannot imagine that the majority of this House does not recognise this advantage. Sabbathical has proved itself. We also offer it to other professional groups – but not at the price that authorities do not work. That's also in the motive report inside. I also think it is very good that approaches are available for greater consideration of our women in the public service: Procurement law, compulsory occupation with a woman, guarantee of the basis of contributions for child training and the like. We continue to carry on the legal sciences already in the ASVG, the hackler regulation already quoted – fortunately, we have finally removed this misleading term by means of the title “long-term insured person”. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that's important: Those who make their contributions for decades should also receive the corresponding recognition, and now also an extension until 2010. I don't think the end of the flag rod has been reached. There you can still argue, and I think that this step has been quite, very important. As we do, Dr. Fichtenbauer, that we halve the discount at the corridor board. The fact that, due to European trends – Bologna process – we raise the issue of equality of diplomas in the colleges with university studies is a quantum leap. The concern that it is now more expensive for all posts in the administration to be filled with A forces is unfounded, because the posts have been evaluated accordingly, but the study ultimately has the equivalence, and I think that this is a very, very important aspect. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, that, as today, as in the matter on the item on the agenda, for example, 2 working hours law, for which the great social partners have been preparing work, the social partners of the Federal Government, as an employer with the appropriate representation of interests, the Public Service Trade Union, have drawn up a presentation, without doubt under media supervision. A dispute culture is part of it, but it must be designed in such a way that our colleagues who consume it and often do not know many backgrounds in the development of a discussion do not become superfluous to them. It is quite, very important that we also shape this dispute culture accordingly, and if Mr. Fichtenbauer had not only been concerned with one subject, it would actually have to be “good” as an assessment of the overall package of this Service Law Novelle, but would simply be “very good”. Ladies and gentlemen! For example, government members of both parties recently celebrated the absolute top performance in the eGovernment we achieved in Austria. This is an excellent initial inflammation of politics. Here the responsible workers have worked well, but without employees it would not have happened, so I can also add: With all the criticism you can practice there and there: Austria can rely on its public services to a high degree. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I think that this novelle in many areas also expresses a small “thank” in the sense of social policy development. Public service is an important parameter for Austria's economic location, and I thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister, that after very hard, good discussions we were finally able to link up a package that received broad approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19956	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek's next speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e19977	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This Service Law Novelle is still far from what we imagine in the medium term and what, I believe, many government agreements in recent years have always been on the agenda, namely a uniform right of service for all public-law staff and a redistribution of income-righteousness, mainly the concern that young people, when they get in, receive a higher salary and for that the salary curve rises more flatter. Logically, the quality of life is usually such that you invest in this phase of life – young families et cetera – and therefore such a redistribution would be useful. This is not meant in this novel and will probably not come so fast in the medium term. However, a few positive points are included in this novel, which I now explicitly do not want to describe as privileges, but which are also necessary and where, I think, other professional groups should also follow, for example the recognition of patchwork families and communities. [[Abg. Newborn: That's it!]] This is a very difficult situation now. You know: Every second marriage in Austria is divorced. Many families then come from a social relationship in which the stepparents – stepfather or stepmother – also take over a social parenting for a stepchild. But then, for example, in the case of the illness of the child, they have no way of making a care holiday. And that is now the case with this novel, at least for officials or public servants, and I think that this should be a claim and also an incentive for this House, which, in total, should also be anchored in matrimonial law, so that this equality can also be fixed for other professional groups. Of course, the extension of the Sabbath model is also very positive. I can only agree now that the experiences are very positive. Finally, the unpaid holiday. If you want to see this as a privilege, you can do it, but it is a very reasonable and sensible instrument for many purposes. People can continue to learn – the key to lifelong learning – and you can make a horizontal extension at this stage, and you can ultimately obtain necessary reliefs for the health system at that time; Burn-out syndromes, for example, are largely prevented by Sabbathicals. So it makes sense, in total, to do so, also macroeconomicly speaking. That is why the word “privileg” here is the wrong expression. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the ÖVP.]] Of course, there is also a positive level playing field between university graduates and university graduates. We expressly welcome this, and also the recognition of periods of service in institutions of other European countries. However, where we would have wanted a little more courage and where the more transparent procedure will probably only be a drop on the hot stone, that is the so-called glass ceiling for women in the public service, and I would like to suggest to you, above all, a data situation with regard to the top positions, which is really very, very sad. These are the section heads in the Austrian Ministries: So, we got here in 1989, that's now 18 years ago... – How much? [[Call: Voice]] - That's right? Thank you, 'cause I'm a little weak when I calculate. At the time, there were 80 section heads, of which 78 were men. In 2007 we now have eight women from 69 section head posts. If we continue at the same pace – and this bill has not been used by me now, but Brigid Weinzinger, our female spokesperson, has already calculated it – then it takes up to 2149 until we have a 50:50 quota at the top positions in the administration. And I think this is a time span that no woman in Austria wants to wait or can wait. So, Mrs. Federal Minister, a little more pace on this question would be nice. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, the procedure should be more transparent, and women should always be required to participate in these assessment bodies. This is in principle positive. Nevertheless, if the will is not there – and then the political leaders must actively implement this will – the glass ceiling will continue to exist. One last point to the Sabbaths: The explanatory statement states that the Sabbathic savings are possible, and there is a non-retirement rate of 10 percent. That is what we think is wrong, and I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is necessary, above all, in the context of the educational debate, where, I believe, we are always together. It needs more education. And there is also a need for sufficient staff to improve the quality of education. Against this background, this motion for a resolution is to be understood, and I am looking forward to an agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20053	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20120	The next speaker is Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20142	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! To the civil service law. Let's say it this way: It may be a first start, a small step, but it's still a lot to do. There is still no uniform right to serve as we imagine it. There are, of course, certain improvements which the previous speakers have already mentioned, such as the abolition of school-based posts. I can also live by simply letting them run out and not re-occupied. That's okay. Just like the Sabbath. It's also all right to introduce this as a trial. The improvements in pension law, which apply to others, I think are okay. It is only interesting that this extension of the hacker regime is being carried out here. The hackler system runs in principle until 2017, has been created by us. As long as it was in opposition, it has been defied by the SPÖ and is now always preferred by the SPÖ. [[Abg. Shopf: The drop-offs?- Oh, my God!]] Mr President, you left a lot of unemployed in 2000! When we were in government responsibility, there wasn't that much money there. We have set up a pension insurance committee to assess this. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It would now be easy to continue the hacker scheme indefinitely. But why do we limit this to 2010? Let us do it indefinitely – it would be unlimited, Mr President! Unlimited – that would be all right. The extension of the exemption from care, I think, should be applied to all, i.e. also to those in the private sector. In other areas, we should also make a change, not a question. Equal treatment is okay, and the equality of university and university graduates is also the same. Ladies and gentlemen, what is still very far away is this redistribution – Mrs Federal Minister, you have also mentioned this in the Committee – as regards the amount of living earnings that officials earn at the beginning and the curve goes down to the end. Of course, this is associated with additional costs – that must then be budgeted and so on, no question! – but we are still far away. Some things away we are also at the following: Now is the end of the school year. This year it is likely that 50,000 pupils will receive one or more “not enough ” in the annual certificate. A study by the Chamber of Labour states that € 140 million is spent annually for private re-help. These costs of staying seated are enormous. This also costs the state a lot of money: about €300 million for the schoolground, for family support, for schoolbooks, for free travel for students. In addition, the costs for the families are: the additional maintenance costs and the earnings. According to the Chamber of Labour, this is also a sum of €500 to €600 million a year. 8 per cent of the students receive supplementary education, with the main students already 17 per cent, and with the AHS students this has tripled, since we are at 24 per cent. This year, as in the previous year, 35 000 pupils will probably have to repeat the school year. There is an acute need for action, Mrs Federal Minister, in this area. Teachers, unlike other workers, have 60 to 70 days off a year – others have 30 days. There should be a “solidarity model” here, that teachers should provide compulsory assistance to needy students in the last three weeks before school, if they have not taught them themselves. I think that would certainly be a good way of doing this and would save us some money. It would be a financial relief for the parents, because a follow-up time in individual classes costs about €30, in group lessons it is at least €15, which are expected here. And most of the time, it's 15 days to 8 hours that come here, and that's already huge costs. You could react quickly here. There is already the opportunity to bring the teachers back a little earlier out of vacation when you say it in good time. The possibility exists. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I believe that in this area we would be very, very, very helpful to the Austrian parents if we did so. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Voices I would like to ask you to accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20256	The amendment that has just been tabled by Mr Dolinschek is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20377	Mrs Bures spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20398	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I'm glad that we can bring this service law novelle under roof and compartment today. Mr Neugebauer has already referred to it: There were very many rounds of negotiations and there were tough negotiations that we had. But at the end there's a good result. I believe that today – many speakers have already responded – we have a really good overall package. What is the focus of this Novelle Service Law? – It was very important to me that we make the federal administration a lot more modern and efficient, that we also implement many positive improvements for public service workers, and – that was a point that was still under discussion for a very long time – that we also say goodbye to what I believe is no longer the modern instrument of the school-based institutions. I believe that a very big goal in public administration must be to have an efficient administration, but also – in the interests of citizens – to have an effective administration. to have a quality public administration. An important prerequisite is that we have motivated employees, that we have committed employees in the public service, and that we also promote commitment and motivation – and that we should contribute to this by means of the Service Law Novelle now. Many points have already been raised by Members, which can actually be seen as a very innovative reform. At the outset, I would like to put in place those measures concerning the promotion of women in the public service. This is a very important concern to me, because I think that public service must have something like a model effect. Whenever we rightly say: in the private sector, women should not be deprived of the potential of women and women should have the same career and promotion opportunities as men, it is also very important that we prove in public service that women's promotion has a positive effect, that it is important and that it is a measure to which we confess. Madam President, Mr Glavischnig! The political will of my own, I believe, is beyond doubt. I am concerned with really bringing more women to the fore, as I said, as a role model in public service. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My recipe for this is to bring more transparency into all tender procedures by revealing in tender procedures the weighting of the necessary knowledge and skills before, in order to be able to counter possible disadvantages – which are constantly under discussion when women are not in top positions. Make this visible and, with more transparency in the competition procedure, we can then also be better able to act against discrimination against women in the public service. As a second instrument to put women in top positions in the public service, it has been very important to me that we send people to the assessment committee who ensure that gender justice is not covered by the table. That is why I am going to make a half-half rule in the occupation of the assessment committee. Thus, purely male-occupied assessment commissions – as they have so far been – will be part of the past. I think this is a very important step towards women's policy. [[Congratulations with SPÖ, ÖVP and Greens.]] I would also like to focus briefly on the debate on flexible working hours at the request of public service employees: We will thus make it possible for all employees of the public service to have the opportunity to take time off. This model focuses on flexibilisation for employees. It is not about saving potentials, but about opening up opportunities and opportunities for additional training or leisure time. The discussion about a privilege is completely wrong here. This measure will not involve any additional costs, but the costs of the free phases will also be financed by the employees of the public service itself. The question of non-retirement of retirement is often addressed to the area of teachers: It is very important to me here to say that the new Federal Government has always made it clear that it is necessary for us to start an educational offensive in Austria, that we reduce the maximum number of students that we bring more teachers to public schools for our children. Therefore, despite savings in the public service, non-retirement of retirements, we have excluded teachers in the interest of a modern, good school for our children – and this also applies to the Sabbathical. Es the following Education policies are the focus of this new federal government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Third point, shortly: New life forms, patchwork families are all a term, and it has also been introduced by Members that we should also open up the possibility of exemption for the care of children in the common household for patchwork families. I believe that this is a service-law follow-up to the reality of life of many families in Austria. Fourth point, the adaptation to pension law: The extension of the freedom of deduction in connection with the so-called hackler rule, namely the long-term insured, is a very important point where we are now following the ASVG with the pension provisions in the public service. Fifth point: University and university graduates are equalised by law. It is also a matter of getting closer to the European Higher Education Area and taking the Bologna model into account in public service and service law. Finally, there has been a very long discussion on the question of schooling: I have also had a lot of discussions about this – of course with the Public Service Trade Union, but also with many teachers. I have received a feedback from many that they too do not find this regulation in modern times. The introduction had historical reasons. This regulation was introduced in that year in which I was born. I think it's about time after so many years that there can be changes here. I am therefore very glad that the federal government will no longer be going to school as of September 2007 and that we will allow the countries to stop the award of school-seekers from 2007. From 2008 onwards, according to the template, it will be mandatory by federal law for all. I think we have managed to open the way for a modern and flexible school, at least from a legal point of view – and this is the part I have to fulfil. At the heart of all matters of service in the school sector must be the best education for our children. I am pleased about the joint outcome of the negotiations, thank you also to all those involved and believe that it is really a novel that will give more quality to the public service as a whole and will benefit citizens in Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20495	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20517	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This ‘early novel’ – I have to say – is not only innovative, progressive, it is truly an excellent, comprehensive innovation and of enormous importance to public servants, to our colleagues. It is also fair, justly oriented. That is why I did not understand the discussion in committee and did not understand the speeches today. I don't understand how to talk about privilege here. If I am at home today free of charge, this is only of great importance – even from the employee’s point of view. I think both have some of it. I think we should see this when we have experienced many, many, I don't want to say, deterioration in recent years. For years I myself have been negotiating on the side of the representation of interests, and I am committed to the negotiation of these important issues by the service provider and the trade union movement. They will be accompanied in a parliamentary capacity and will then be debated and decided on in the committee responsible. But one thing we have always done, ladies and gentlemen, when officials are on the agenda, is to thank our colleagues, the public staff for their first-class performance in the interests of the Austrians and the Republic. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] As this is the last plenary week before the summer break: Personally and on behalf of my group, I am particularly grateful to the staff members of the Parliamentary Directorate – for us everything is a matter of course, no matter how late it is at night, on Saturday and Monday and Wednesday! –: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your service, we really appreciate it! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] But let me make a few points. The Federal Minister, but also the colleague Neugebauer, has already mentioned all the content. Nevertheless, one must really remove the educational perspective, the woman's political perspective and the social perspective in this spring novel. This novel is a forward-looking novel – it can be seen. I should like to congratulate all those who have negotiated this – we know how negotiations often take place in length – and say: Good thing needs a while. I believe that the public officials, our colleagues, Mrs Bundesminister, have not only expected this result – you can not really expect much in this area – but it is for them. I can't believe I'm going to say that. The women have been mentioned over and over again. For the first time we have the opportunity – and who knows the procedures of the tender commissions, the service representatives, the service representatives, will recognize the great importance of this step – here is the first time that the service representatives will automatically be a woman. I think this is a milestone in this question, because we know it from the Sunday speeches, but we also know how it is then in practice. I am really happy that we also set a milestone in the field of A-valuability in the fields, including in the field of high-school graduates. I have also said in committee: It doesn't make any sense to say that it costs something! Either there is a planning site in the establishment plan, or there is no such site. And if there is it, then it can be occupied, and if there is no one, it cannot be occupied. What are you doing? – I therefore believe that fairness is half as much to welcome this development and this step. However, I would also like to address, from a social point of view, but also for justice, the question which – I remain for all of us, and the Austrians know it no different than under this term – “hackler regulation”. Whenever it is said: Something is already being done for the officials!, then I can only remind you that this has been decided for the ASVG for a long time ago. I believe that it is fair to look at this and to implement it as well. Finally, Mrs Federal Minister and all the colleagues involved, thank you once again in the interest of our staff. I am pleased that we will now decide on this by a large majority for our colleagues. And I am already looking forward to the discussion, Mrs. Minister, which will bring the autumn novelle.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20589	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Iron gift. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20610	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With the present Novelle Service Law and with the extension of the Sabbath to all federal staff, it is also high time to establish a new focus on thematic access. I am convinced that this arrangement for officials is not an invitation to stroll, as Mr Dr. Fichtenbauer meant in the Constitutional Committee. He said that it would save officials from working at federal costs. It can't be. Rather, it is a matter of using the Sabbath in the free choice of the servant. The whole has very valuable aspects: On the one hand, more motivation in the workplace, on the other hand, there are opportunities for voluntary training, and on the other hand, it also means a new sensitivity to the family in such a way that children and spouses can be taken more care of. Especially the family, which is strongly stressed in this novelle at another place, namely in the extension of the care exemption, is strengthened here. It is here, I would say, also to confirm the family “new model” of the patchwork family in an obvious way. In this context, I would also like to point out the necessary coordination between the Federal Government and its servants, who also have to make very strong financial efforts. After all, for four years, employees give up on 20 percent of their salary – at 100 percent performance! That is to say, in total, this is a certain exaggeration. At this point I would like to prevent any misunderstanding: Of course, 80 percent salary means not only 80 percent service. It is also very clear from ÖVP wait that the image of the civil service must not be distorted that officials should not be exposed to unfair comparison with other professional groups. The free year is not an excursion year, but it is a self-financed service exemption with the claim to re-establish the resulting potential for the entire system in a targeted and sustainable manner.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20644	Mr Broukal spoke in favour of an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Maximum speaking time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20668	Mr President. Mr Dolinschek has claimed that this free year, this Sabbath, is a privilege of the officials. - That's not true. Rather, it is true that the collective agreement of journalists has long known the Institute of a Sabbath, and there are no journalists employed by the state, if one looks away from a few editors of the “Vienna newspaper”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20700	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - He's not in the hall. Mrs. Dr. Hlavac is therefore the next speaker. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20725	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very pleased that this Novelle Service Law will be decided before the summer. I think this is the first great success, Mrs Federal Minister, that you have as Minister responsible for officials, and I am very pleased about it! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] This novel is a contribution to a modern administration and brings a whole series of important provisions for officials. It has already been mentioned several times today in the area of pension rights. This is about the redemption of an election promise and the fulfilment of the government programme, and there is a measure that has been promised. – This promise has already been fulfilled. The compatibility of work and family is very important in the area of women. We know, and this is always stressed that the state is a pioneer here in terms of equal opportunities for women, the career opportunities of women. It is therefore very important that the state reacts to the changes in society and in the families, for example by allowing for the exemption of care even if the child of the companion or the companion becomes ill. This takes account of these changes in the families and is a very positive measure. The state is also exemplary in the field of women's employment. Although the “glass ceiling” is repeatedly addressed, there are already quite a number of women in important functions in the government service. In many cases, however, the last step is still missing, but the career peaks will not be reached so easily. It is therefore important that measures are put in place here that there is greater transparency in the weighting of requirements in the procurement of leadership positions that women are represented in the Commissions. These are all things we hope will mean further progress. In this context, I would like to mention that yesterday, for the first time, a woman was appointed rector of a university: Ms Univ.-Prof. Bruner at BOKU. I think that is a very positive sign, and I would also like to express my congratulations and congratulations to her from this point of view. In one word: A very important novel with positive innovations – and therefore a great success for you, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20771	The next speaker is Mr Praßl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20794	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This novel contains a very large package of amendments. Changes in civil service law and other public service and remuneration regulations are being made, and the equal pay of graduates and graduates of higher education and university graduates is also very positive. I would, however, like to turn to the changes in the field of agricultural and forestry vocational and specialised schools. On the one hand, the abolition of school strength at these agricultural and forestry vocational schools leads to a great deal of relief. The current and normal regimeal protection for public servants is no longer in time. On the one hand, the necessary administrative burden is not in any way in use, and on the other hand, it also constitutes an obstacle to the mobility of teachers. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment proposes the harmonisation of the classification of religious teachers at agricultural and forestry vocational and professional schools with the other laws of service of the state and federal teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, although there are no direct employment policy intentions, the administrative reform has gone a bit further. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20828	The next speaker is Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20849	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! If we are discussing the Civil Service Law today, I would particularly like to take advantage of the change in the field of the State Teacher Service Law, as many of my previous speakers have already done. It remains with what my immediate predecessor has said about the school-student positions of teachers. I agree: This is no longer a matter of time – and we have to say that it was historically meaningful for teachers to have, in their complete pedagogical independence to the local councils, district councils and politically motivated ambitions, the securitised right to carry out their pedagogical tasks – and not to be guided by any other person. In the meantime, however, we can assume that democracy development has developed an objective right – and that in terms of school quality, school-resistant teachers are just about a brake. If we also put this in relation to the declining numbers of students, we see that there are areas in which we are no longer able to fulfil the quality of the school due to the measures that are laid down in Pragmatizations, as it is necessary to make changes there and there on the basis of technical requirements. On the basis of the measures already mentioned, I am glad that we are going to be adopted by school-based teachers in the future. We have also discussed the Sabbath – and I must say that I do not feel it as a ‘teacher privilege’, as has been said at another item on the agenda by the Member of the Liberal Aspock. This is not a privilege for officials, but it is This is also a good thing in this area. We have to deal with a lot of people who have certain burnout syndromes and who will be taken to the pension rail at some point in time, so to speak, and these people will certainly help this suspension of a year. Finally, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen: We could have considered something about official titles for these novels as well. The title of office is quite anachronistic today. It is not a sign of particular quality whether someone is a teacher or a teacher, whether someone is a government council or an executive council. Therefore, in the preparation of a next Novelle Service Law, we should also focus intensively on these official titles, namely: This is not really the motivating factor for an official, for example, whether he has or does not have an “top” before it, but is essential to his service and his duties.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20891	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20913	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few comments on this novel, which ensures something important, namely that graduates of colleges and graduates of universities are equal. This has already been mentioned by Mr Niederwieser. However, I would like to give the truth the honor and say that this is not only a merit of the negotiations that have taken place in recent weeks and months, but, if you may remember, the subject of the Constitutional Committee was already in the past legislative period. And today, with this long history of history, this is being adopted. Why, and what is serious about that? – When this young institution was created in the mid-1990s, these colleges were primarily entrusted with courses of economics and technology. No one has worried about the classification of exitrs in the public service, nor has the private sector made any further comments. With further development in terms of health and social professions, it is more natural that these graduates in public services will find their professional realization, and that is why it is important – also from the point of view that this is likely to be a majority of women, with us of course very pleased about these students – that these graduates experience equality. What's more, what's essential: In recent years, the technical colleges – thanks also for the work being done there – have proved that, in terms of the part of training, if one can separate it, as well as in terms of the part of research and science, they have connected to the level of work of the universities and thus the graduates are “appropriate” in terms of the degree course. As far as graduate and student opportunities are concerned, this will achieve equality, also thanks to the good previous discussion and thanks to the great approval – and I would also like to say thanks to all those who have previously worked at these colleges.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20948	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Sonnberger. Also 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e20969	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This Service Law Novelle implements, for example, the long-term insurance scheme and the halving of the discount at the Corridor-Pension, as in the ASVG already decided in this House. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fichtenbauer.]] School Festivals will be held from 1st century onwards. Mr Fichtenbauer, Member of the Commission. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Until then, it would have to be possible to develop perspectives for a new right of service and remuneration, namely a new right of remuneration with lower life earnings curves and higher entrance salaries. But this will lead to additional costs for the federal government, especially in the first few years, and you need to know this when dealing with such a new model. Furthermore, temporary service periods are now fully taken into account by institutions of the European Union or by any other intergovernmental body belonging to Austria. In this context, I call for it to be possible to recognise full-time working hours acquired in the private sector as pre-service periods. This injustice should be eliminated in one of the next novels. It is important to me, Mrs Federal Minister, that you continue to work so constructively with the social partners in the future, because this will come up with solutions that can be seen. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21016	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Scheibner. Second word; 3 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21037	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Our colleague Sigisbert Dolinschekhat has already announced that we will agree to this proposal, because there are certainly some correct and meaningful reforms of civil service rights, some of which I must say that it is quite surprising that Mr Pendl, in particular, has praised this, such as the “hackler rule”, for I can well remember when we introduced it in the ASVG and there was also strong criticism of this regulation from this side; but we can be failed. – In any event, it makes sense that such a scheme will also apply in the public service in the future. My colleague, Mr Pendl, has said something, something that makes me hope a little – I take my colleague Pendl seriously – when he meant that he was looking forward to another novel in autumn. We hope, of course, that further important points can be decided; perhaps even an overall reform of the civil service rights we have been waiting for for so long. – Mr Neugebauer is already looking very smeared. . In the past legislative period, we have had a few meetings, very good meetings, during which we have discussed an overall reform of civil service rights, but one has, quite skillfully, pulled it a little in length; but now, I believe, the pressure is not so strong anymore to implement it. [[Abg. Neugebauer: We already take care of it!]] However, I hope that we will still experience this – perhaps even in autumn – because we are going to consider how to standardise the right of service in the public service on the one hand, that once again we discuss these differences with the contract staff who have different service rights, with the Pragmatized – the Pragmatization is similar to those of these school-like institutions – that flexible service rights, for example for executives or for the federal army, are also provided, where an official's schedule is quite simply impossible for some services. The young guards or the young soldiers who are recruited at the age of 18 or 19 simply cannot “persevere ” up to 65 years of age if they are no longer needed, and then some positions and tasks are often invented. That costs a lot of money – and only brings frustration. The open question of the university graduates is also clarified once. This strict schemata with A, B C, D belong to softened and the sum of life to the modern needs – especially what the disciples arrive – are adapted accordingly. It would be interesting to see what the pension schemes in the public service are about – you have a two-thirds majority again – to ensure that justice is restored. There were many reforms in federal service law, but few in national service rights; however, everything is thrown into a pot in an image. That's why: Consent to this small reform – we are still waiting for the big one, it was announced. Mr Pendl said that something will come in the autumn. We hope that this great reform will come about. If not, it will be moved back to a next government. I have already said today that Gusenbauer II will not exist. In any case, we will ensure that this issue remains on the agenda.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21077	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. I would therefore ask you to take the seats. We come to the votes. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 193 of the Supplements. The Members of Parliament have said that they are in the right position. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, put forward an additional proposal which contains the inclusion of points 39a in Article 1, 14a in Articles 13 and 14a in Article 15. First of all, I shall vote on this supplementary proposal and finally on the draft law and the title and receipt as amended by the Committee's report. I'm looking for the Ladies and gentlemen, in favour of the supplementary amendment tabled by Mrs Ing. Westenthaler, ladies and gentlemen, to give a positive signal. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. I shall now proceed to the vote on the present draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I would like to ask the Members of the House for a sign in the event of their consent. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on the post- write-off of teachers in the event of the release by Sabbaths. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[18:52:53]] 9. Point Report of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the Government Template (140, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Opening Act 2003 (152 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21162	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate. First speaker is Mrs Sburny. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21192	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a novel of the Opening Act 2003 and a further liberalisation of shop opening times, both as regards weekly opening hours, the possibility of increasing from 66 to 72 hours, as well as the possibility of keeping open from Monday to Saturday longer. In a way, I have a Déjà-vu experience in this debate. We had a very similar debate in 2003. At the time, too, the explanations of the law stated that there was a positive impact on the employment and economic location of Austria, and no one made the effort on the part of the government groups at that time to prove how this should be done. We have discussed everything possible in the debate and, if you take it seriously, we have come to the conclusion that the strengthening of the economic location is not really evidenceable. It has not helped, but it has been decided by the government parties. Interestingly, now the Chamber of Commerce does not even believe that this is so clear. I find it really remarkable that in its opinion on this law, the Chamber of Commerce makes up the arguments pro and counter of this law. It says what the arguments for liberalisation are, what the arguments against liberalisation are, and notes that there are very different positions both on the consumer side and on the side of the trading companies, and in total it says something like this: Don't use it, don't hurt it, let's stop it! So according to this motto. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein.]] Mr Minister, this is the position of the Chamber of Commerce – I do not know if you have read it – which is relatively, I would say, peculiar for the fact that the economy is supposed to benefit so much from this expansion of shop opening times. That means, in general, we could cut this off under the title: Well, four years ago we discussed, salami tactics, every few years the opening hours are extended. Obviously, the Greens are unable to prevent this. But what really shocks me and why I would like to say a few more words here is that you have not taken any measures to improve the framework conditions. We discussed in detail in 2003 what is actually the problem with this liberalisation, namely that it is a permanent deterioration for workers – it is about hundreds of thousands of trade workers, especially women. Secondly, there would be a need for a change or extension of child care periods, because unfortunately these women are not able to stay their children permanently somewhere between 5 a.m. and 10 a.m. in the evening. And thirdly, there is not even the opportunity to get to work if the company itself does not declare itself willing to cart people to the workplace and back. I find this, as I have said, a disaster and really – how am I supposed to say that now without getting a call for order?, it is really hard for me – embarrassing that the... – you think it doesn't matter. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] All right, I'll say, I think it's a cleaner that nothing happened here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21236	Mrs Colleague, I would ask you to take back this expression.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21251	I know you're allowed to say that's not inside. I don't want to be so sophisticated right now, I'll take it back. I'm saying, I find that embarrassing! And I note what Mr Mitterlehner, who is likely to speak today, said in the 2003 debate. Mr Mitterlehner in the 2003 debate: “Of course, it has to be sometime” – “at some point,” you have already said that this is good for you; this is always the line of the ÖVP that you are going to keep on – “even in the field of the opening hours of kindergartens, in public transport. But you will never be able to realize that in Austria at once, because everyone says, no, we don’t need that.” So what now? – Of course we have to, but no, but not. – I think we have to, and it would be time for the ÖVP to take care of it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So nothing new. The only thing surprising and completely new is the SPÖ's position on this matter. The SPÖ had a very different position in 2003 – I also want to quote this here; for example, I had it in my head, but the quote is very nice. Mr Moser, then SPÖ's spokesperson, said – I quote –: “We will vote against this law because it is carried out on the back of 600,000 poorly paid workers. We will vote against this law because it will lead to a further deterioration of the local supply and the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises. We will vote against this law because it is in stark contradiction with the confessions you have made in your coalition agreement on the compatibility of family and profession." Now I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ: What has changed so much at all these points that you do not only agree today at once, but are firmly involved when the expansion of shop opening times is decided here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21309	Mr Mitterlehner is next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21330	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs. Sburny describes Déjà-vu experiences here, I can give her a right: [[Abg. Sburny: It's one!]] It is true that the topic of shop opening times is one of the most controversial issues at all, and it will always be a topic that can never be finally dealt with, but it will continue. What we discussed in 2003 was all right, including the question of what is going on in public transport and so on, and we are in a development process. [[Abg. Sburny: Where? What has been developed?]] It is also true that the opinion reached by us that both sides and the other side are taken into account. We have small businesses, which are not so organizational, that operate families who say: We do not need to change the opening hours! On the other hand, we have large businesses that say: We would like to be able to keep open for 96 hours! Since we represent all companies, we want to have a compromise that continues. And this compromise could be in the direction of the 72 hours. What's bad about it? – The legislator makes framework conditions that enable further development, on the other hand it protects certain areas. We certainly protect Sunday, it remains untouched – I see it as a great advantage, even from the point of view of the workers – and secondly, we allow something that is Austria to be seen as a single economic area. [[Complementary of the Abg. Steibl]] So far, the heads of state have had the opportunity to limit or extend it so that I do not tell it in a wrong way, and have not made use of it, from 66 to 72 hours, with the exception of a head of state, the head of state of the largest federal state. On the other hand, the consumer has seen certain trends: international liberalisation is being liberalized, while the European Football Championship – which is expected – is kept open. And the tourism sector says in surveys that it would like to have more scope. What we have here is nothing but a compromise that has been found. On the other hand, there are no possibilities for extension or restriction, but the same applies to all. And now from my point of view comes the jumping point: There is actually no law that is as beautifully accompanied by the framework conditions as this. [[Abg. Sburny: Where are the childcare facilities? That's something of sausage! It's up to you to see if the women can or can't do it!]] The collective agreement was negotiated before, actually parallel, one can say, so the employee side is wonderfully secured. Therefore, I would say: The consumer benefits from the new regulations. The employees can live with it. - And if someone says, We don't need that, because now only 56 hours have been exploited!, then I have to say: Look If you do, it is not usual for someone to start at 5 a.m. and stop at 9 p.m., but he works part-time, and the offers will be increased overall. That is what we should actually pay attention to – and nothing else. Therefore, a good solution, a good step into a competitive future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21416	The next speaker is Mr Grastaur. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21437	High house! Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear Reinhold Mitterlehner, but it is certain that the ÖVP will leave the smaller independent trading companies in the rain – that is certain! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Pfeiffer sticks to it, yes. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would like to say to the SPÖ – as Mrs Sburny has already said – that: They have fallen into the back of the tradesmen enormously! [[Complementary with the FPÖ and the Greens.]] I would like to bring some recent newspaper quotes from the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” of the 14th century. February – this has been a time since – it has been about the longer opening hours: ‘Free city dealers are strictly opposed to longer opening hours’. Mrs. Kolm is the owner of a large fashion store in Freistadt. It has carried out: “The costs would rise, but they won’t bring it. We don’t want any longer shop opening times”. - That's right! And no one less than the branch observer of the Chamber of Commerce of Upper Austria, Franz Penz, has carried out: “A survey showed that customers and dealers are satisfied with the opening hours.” – So there is no need for action at all! But I'm still coming to it. ==References== In June, the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) stated that Greißler’s death continues and that 15 small trading companies drop the scrollbars every week and open nine large ones at the same time. There you know where it's going! The third problem, which took place on 30 June. In June the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” (Oberösterreichische Nachrichten) stated that in the cities the biodiversity of trade is lost. - That's totally right. In addition, these commercial centres are lost in the cities. On the matter itself: What is the current situation like? – Even the 66 hours are barely exploited, is to be proved. The consumers – I have already done this – are satisfied with the current shop opening times. The majority of businesses are opposed to expansion. Employees do not have the desire to extend the opening hours. And we know from experience that sales are not getting bigger, but at most they are distributed differently. Those who can afford it, namely the big ones, will get even more from the cake in the future – the little ones even less. Finally, there are no additional jobs by extending the opening hours. There has recently been an investigation into this question in Switzerland, which has come out quite clearly: The extension of the opening hours has a clear impact on the corporate structure. That's to block little ones, and the big ones win. It really raises the question now: Then why do you do it? Why this change of law? If it's not trade, if it's not the traders, if it's not the consumers, who's asking for it - there's got to be a background? – I know in the meantime why this is so: That's what the trade union demanded! And stand behind the trade association, you have to know about 150 of Austria's largest trading companies. Then you know where that comes from. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] These companies require 96 hours, and one now gives up and increases from 66 to 72 hours – it probably goes on that way, and it is cut down after salami tactics. In Sunday's speeches, your party, dear friend, the ÖVP, and also the SPÖ always claim: Close-up services must be strengthened! Local services must be supported! Self-employed trade must be supported! – These are pure lip confessions, made exactly the opposite. I notice: This is an attack on local services, an attack against the local centres. I attended a mayor's conference in Linz last week. In this case, the mayors pleaded for something to be done that these centres of smaller cities and districts do not die out. I'm afraid now we're forcing the big ones on the outskirts, and soon we'll have to take a lot of money into our hands to revitalize the town centres. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And what kind of answer did you get?]] These 72 hours, the extension of the opening hours by six hours only the larger trading establishments, the shopping centres located in front of the places and in front of the cities. I think that's the next step towards locking up on Sunday. And we have to be very careful that this doesn't happen! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Himmlisch! Why the hell? Heavenly!]] – Heavenly, clumsy, as you say, Mr Minister, no matter what, it must not happen at all. The FPÖ is clearly on the side of the trading companies, clearly on the side of the self-employed and also on the side of the trade workers. That is why we are against this draft law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21511	As the next speaker, Mr Bauer, I should like to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21534	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! It is a difficult matter to treat today. Many arguments have already been put forward which have a certain degree of permission. We have considered all of this in the decision-making process. We will give our approval to this opening act, which was introduced in 2003 and is now to be amended again – at that time an extension to 66 hours, today to 72 hours – because – that is the difference from the 2003 law – a series of accompanying measures should be put in place with this innovation, because the trade union and social partners have been involved – in close cooperation with the club and the social partners. It is the first time – and it should also be noted – that the social partners have agreed on a future-oriented model, and that, at the same time, working time law, opening time law and, ultimately, the cornerstones of the collective agreement with 1. January 2008 takes the eye. This means a package solution, as it had not been given before, whereby a certain balance could ultimately be achieved very well, because there will not only be a deterioration – it is admitted that for many thousands of trade workers, mostly women, it is a deterioration in many areas – but also improvements. I believe that if the social partners reach such an agreement, they can also be said as politicians, because an agreement could ultimately be reached by those who are on the front line for these improvements and for the changes. I am therefore very pleased with this agreement and the various improvements, such as the use of the term “shopping” for the first time, which will also result in a certain collective contractual significance. Ladies and gentlemen, it was up to the end of this package solution, also to give another example, because of the determination of multi-hour supplements for part-time workers. I know that has already been discussed today, this 25 percent, where perhaps not all are satisfied. But that for the first time a multi-hour supplement for part-time workers comes into a law offers the possibility that one can build on this success later. I also believe that it is important – and that is what is further mentioned – that more stringent sanctions are created in case of non-compliance and more stringent punishments are provided where no records are made. That means that it is also a matter of greater monitoring of compliance with the provisions, and with this, I believe, there is already a balance here. One can not only represent the one interest in economic policy, but of course one must also include consumer interests. There are also many studies that consumers do not want to do so in part. Some go shopping very early and do not need this opportunity in the evening at all. Others don't like to go shopping in the morning, but rather in the evening. I think it is important that one understands that the permission to hold open is not an obligation to use this time all day. That is to say, it remains left to the entrepreneur and ultimately also to the collective contractors to make other agreements at the company level. What is also very important, ladies and gentlemen, is that accompanying measures, for example as regards childcare, will be addressed in the KV and will result in a certain compensation. It was not easy to achieve this result, I say it very clearly, the discussion was very intense – emotionally as always in such areas – but I believe that we should have some confidence in the solutions of the social partners, and that is why we have finally joined in this process. I am also convinced that, in the interests of all, we have found a balance which can be achieved and which is a good basis for making further improvements in collective agreements and business agreements. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21589	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek, who spoke for 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21611	Madam President. Federal Minister! We are now discussing a shop opening time law, which in principle leads to a deterioration in the current regulation. I wonder why the SPÖ is going along at once, although this novel is not really an improvement in relation to the previous regulation. You did not go along with the 66-hour rule, you did not join, and now, because mayor Häupl as the head of state does not take advantage of the regulation, does nothing in Vienna, goes here and generally makes an extension to 72 hours. The fact is that the 56 hours are scarcely used, and now, according to applicable law, there is the possibility, from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily from Monday to Friday... – You do not get it anyway; you can tell it 20 times. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: You still haven't gotten it!]] You don't even get what's bothering the little businessmen. There are different opinions in the Chamber of Commerce. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Even now, in tourist areas, a regulation by the head of state allows you to individually arrange the shop opening times and adapt them accordingly. In fact, there can be locked up every Monday to Friday from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. and on Saturday from 5 a.m. to 6 p.m. And after the new regulation this is only possible from 6 am. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't cry like that!]] There are again those companies affected, Mr Parnigoni, who have many counterparts as customers. This is now being restricted and is actually a deterioration in comparison to the current regulation. It also limits the scope and flexibility given today. Close-up suppliers are also disadvantaged. Of course, as has already been said, trade chains have been favoured. No question they can then introduce a shift operation, and there it goes. These are also the greatest advocates. I'm just wondering, Where does that start, and where does it stop? In principle, one wants to keep open from 0 am to 24 pm, around the clock. Whether this is in the sense of the families, I doubt, because the framework conditions for it have not yet been created, for example, that the childcare facilities should be kept open longer. You haven't created these conditions yet. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I have an opinion from the country of Carinthia, which says that there should be a stopover of purchasing power flows abroad. I am also in favour of buying domestically and that the purchasing power remains domestic, but these will now flow from the periphery into the centers where the large trading chains are. And the strengthening of the economic location is probably very controversial here. For Austria as a tourist country, one has to find out the optimum, namely that where it is necessary, it is kept open at that time – and otherwise it is closed. Why? In tourist centers there is the possibility to stay open longer in the evening. We have created this possibility in Carinthia – everyone is satisfied, no question at all. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Abg. Riepl: Sunday, too, gel?]] This innovation today is to the detriment of small traders, that is no question. If the necessary framework conditions for the families, for whom workers are missing and the appropriate conditions are not created in advance, this is a thing of impossibility. This change of law is a deterioration for all!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21692	The next item is the report by Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21713	Madam President. High house! After speaking about the new spirit of large-coalition social partnership, Mrs. Schatz, on the subject of working time flexibility, Mrs. Sburny, said: Don't use it, don't hurt it! Let's stop it! [[Abg. Sburny: Tell the Chamber of Commerce, not us!]] I quote, ladies and gentlemen. – So your criticism is not so negative. Because if you say that it does not hurt anything, it once corresponds to a perspective on the whole subject that we create opportunities with this shop opening liberalisation law but certainly do not want to harm anyone, neither the workers in trade nor the employers. [[Abg. Sburny: I don't say that! I said that's what the Chamber of Commerce says!]] That would certainly not be our interest. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Few is aware that the current shop opening law also knows opening hours until 9 p.m. that the current shop opening law also knows a weekly opening time of up to 72 hours. However, the current law contains regulatory possibilities for the countries and national leaders, which, to my great surprise – and also negative surprise – have been exploited in eight of nine cases in such a way that the loading time has been limited and the possibility of expansion has not been exploited for 72 hours. That is why we are now taking this liberalisation step in federal law. As mayor Häupl and I discussed the subject during the coalition negotiations, we were very quick about it on Sunday, because it was out of question for us from the beginning: On Sunday, everything stays with the old! No more openings on Sunday! We didn't want to do that – although there are also representatives of interest here, which many people can imagine. But that stood and stood out. For example, there is the possibility for national leaders to open up by regulation for football-EM Sundays. There are in the tourist areas, dear friend Dolinschek, of course this possibility, but usually the business remains closed, as before. Ladies and gentlemen, something that has been absolutely innovative from my experience in this legislative process for a few months now, is that we have not only done step by step, but have done so closely with the social partners. Before the decisive Council of Ministers meeting on Wednesday, the Trade Collective Contracting Parties concluded the relevant KV on Tuesday. So, Mrs Sburny, it is not right either – Mr Bauer has already done this very clearly – that no accompanying measures are and have been taken here. On the contrary: The social partners of trade have laid down the appropriate framework conditions precisely in line with this bill. This is in the direction of child care, which is going to go in the direction of evaluating the surcharge for additional work, which is going toward protecting workers with a longer home trip or without individual home driving possibility at special sales events. In this way, the interests of workers are safeguarded. It is a liberalisation step that I believe, dear friend Mitterlehner, that this will last for a long time, because I think – 5am to 9pm, as it needs, Mr Dolinschek, a decree of the head of state, otherwise it is 6am to 9pm – that will take between 6am and 9pm. We know that today the significant majority of trading companies do not exploit the current opening hours to 100 percent, which will continue to be the case in the future. But there is also such a thing as a right to freedom of employment, and accordingly, one must always be very careful with restrictive measures. So this is a one-time vote with the social partners, just like with regard to working time flexibility. In contrast to the subject of working time flexibility, we have gone beyond the proposals of the social partners in this bill, which has already been said. Thank you also for the consensus and good cooperation at the social partners and at the coalition partner level. I think it also makes sense, with a corresponding delay to 1. ==References====External links== And as it looks, if the coalition partners are now respectfully bringing a number of consensus decisions here in the House to an end, you can already read in the strongest newspaper in Austria: There is already the talk of a cuddly course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21763	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21785	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! There are many arguments for liberalising opening hours, but also good arguments against them. They have already been dealt with in this House today. Personally, I would also like to focus on the fact that there is a new flexibility in this opening act. This takes into account the special needs of the tourist centres and also those of the donor, bakeries, flower dealers, market sellers, city festivals and so on and allows for an opening with special exceptions. The new opening law is therefore certainly also in line with the requirements of consumers. The head of state may, after consulting legal representatives, meet the interests of the sectors previously mentioned, but also the needs of consumers, and lay down the opening times in areas with particular regional and local circumstances by regulation. But I also have to say, as a representative of the small and medium-sized economy, that I am very glad that Sunday is not touched and remains closed on that day. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The small retailers, but also the many trade workers, who are mostly women, urgently need the free Sunday for their families. A further liberalisation of opening hours would be an additional distortion of competition, which will again be at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. I know they don't have to lock up, but it's hard when the big trade associations keep their business open in the near vicinity. Ladies and gentlemen, in this context I would also like to address the fact that we have a concentration of many trading companies which make small and medium-sized enterprises very difficult to compete with. Today, it has also been said that many retailers are heavily affected by closures and, above all, the branchists are more and more able to settle in the various cities and also outside. I believe that we should influence consumers' awareness of the fact that they should be buying back to retailers, to smaller dealers. That would be the best help we can give them. Perhaps we, as Members of this House, can set a good example here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21833	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. You've done five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21854	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! The subtitle to this law could be: The customer is king! , from early morning to late evening, some places only until 6 p.m. or 7 p.m., here and there, but also until 8 p.m. or 9 p.m. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Isn't it bad anyway, is it?]] The whole thing is a bit opaque for the consumer, which is true to create an opening-up bottle, which is created here or which is at least the possibility of being offered. [[Abg. Rädler: You're messing with the innhouses!]] We have already talked about working time flexibility; in fact, working time flexibility and opening hours flexibility are almost a twin pair. In this area, as already mentioned, mostly women are employed, part-time, and this actually looks like this: two hours in the morning, two hours in the afternoon, that is, two hours at work, twice from work to home, double costs, a lunch break with which you can't start anything. Or, another variant: one day from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m., the next day from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. and the third from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m. – Inexhaustible to the no longer going, an unreasonable burden, especially for employees with caregivers and especially for families. Today both have to go to work to be able to afford a family. That is, in these models it will be so that the couple will not see themselves under the week, perhaps on Sunday, but it will also fall sometime; we already have a five-year plan in this direction, but then I will come back later. I really need to see Mrs. Sburny here: This is indeed a cleaner, even from the point of view of trade workers! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] A family life is almost impossible to maintain.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21902	I suppose that was a quote – or what was it now? Otherwise, I have to ask you to take this back.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21918	It's also my conviction that it's a sourry.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21936	Then, unfortunately, I have to give you a call for order, what happened here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e21954	Knowing that this is not entirely from your heart, I am happy to accept it, Madam President. Mr Minister, you have referred to the heads of state who have authorized you to make more use of the flexibilization, and have said that only one has made use of it in your mind, the rest has restricted the opening hours. So, in truth, this change in law is also a disarmament of the national leaders who still know how people are doing in their environment. The consequences that arise for the workers seem to be different, especially the ÖVP, and unfortunately God has once again fallen over the SPÖ – we had this all the time in the past – and has been involved. That's a shame, but it's just like that, we have to take note of that. A public mood is also not included in the template. The healthy people's feeling, as they call it so beautiful in the countryside, only costs you a smile, Mr Mitterlehner. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner]] – There's a survey you might know, if not, then I'm sorry, and I'd like to read to you a little bit about it. There is, for example, the question: Does it become more difficult for working mothers in trade? - That's what 86 percent of the respondents say. A clear yes. Will there be different opening hours; will this become more difficult for consumers? – There 76 percent of respondents say a clear and clear yes. Can there be small shops? – 79 percent say no. Will there be less time for family? – Nearly 70 percent say a clear yes. And to the philosophical question that this would bring more sales: Will more money be spent? – It says 30 percent yes. That's a very low value. To this end, in Bavaria in November 2006 the flexibilisation directive was questioned and in fact only 13 percent were able to detect increasing revenues. [[Abg. Rädler: This is a German survey?- Oh, my God!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – Clearly to be recognized: ÖVP, a lobby for big corporations. Individual companies and family businesses can be driven to the wall. This can also be seen in a change in the law of the 1st century. The year before, where the accounting rules were fundamentally changed for food retailers and compound dealers, namely that these dealers were not subject to accounting requirements until that date, up to a turnover limit of €600 000, but now the current obligation to report is at risk of existence from €400 000 for many affected. For this reason, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Mitterlehner, you said in committee that the big chains wanted to have 96 hours in total anyway. You also said what They have negotiated it is a compromise and we will have to talk about it more often. – When I divide this, this is a five-year plan leading to a 96-hour rule towards Sunday work. We liberals as a social home party will certainly not be there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22021	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger and others has been properly tabled, sufficiently supported, and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22085	The next item is the speech by Mr Mayer. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22107	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It's right: For successful shops, shopping centres, but also markets, the guiding principle must apply, which has previously been said: The focus is on the customer. To this end, we are fully committed, but there must also be the legitimate interests of retailers. We believe and are convinced that this extension of the framework, as no one is also obliged to remain open longer, will even improve the opportunities to address local and regional needs of retailers. I also think of the commuters and others here; many do that very skillfully. I think they also have their advantages. For employees, in turn, women are particularly affected and must be more taken into account. Ladies and gentlemen, although this innovation will extend the total term of the stay within a week to a maximum of 72 hours, it will be possible for the social partners to achieve good results through an agreement that is acceptable from our point of view – our spokesperson Dr Bauer has already pointed out. Points such as childcare are taken into account for the first time in such a contract. Another point is: The Labour Act provides for more stringent sanctions in the event of a breach of time and non-performing of records – and, last but not least, even mentioned, a multi-hour supplement of 25 percent is introduced for part-time workers. Another encouraging change concerns the new concept of the so-called shopping event. This new term allows national leaders to keep open at special major events and events on the day of the event beyond 9 p.m. This innovation is still timely for EURO 2008. The exception to the Sunday opening will also be to thank God only for major events such as the EURO. This was unfortunately not possible for us in Vorarlberg, at the coming Gymnaestrada, which will take place for the next ten days. There will be more than 23 000 athletes, not to mention the visitors at all. Over 3,000 volunteers are working for this mega-event, and we must drop the scrollbars at 9 p.m. I mean, at such large events, it should be possible to offer the people, the athletes who come to us from over 40 nations, appropriate hospitality and service and also the opportunity to stay open longer. I therefore believe that it is also a good further step in the sense of tourism. I would ask you to support this innovation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22152	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22173	Thank you, Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The present draft law amending the opening hours clearly shows the policy of the new coalition government in terms of economic policy. It is still about supporting large companies, large companies, and all of this on the back of the small ones. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Mitterlehner said today that Parliament's task was – and I actually understood that – to support everyone, and for this reason a compromise had been made. – I must say that he is perfectly right, he should actually support everyone, because I assume that the Economic and Social Committee also has more members in small and medium-sized enterprises than in large enterprises, for the very simple reason that there are just a lot more small and medium-sized enterprises than large businesses. And that's why I have to ask him: If he sees this as his task, I wonder why he does not do it and why he does not support the small and medium-sized enterprises partout. – It was clear from the election program, both SPÖ and ÖVP, that a discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, would have been a priority objective of the current government coalition. If you look at economic policy now, you have to realize that it is absolutely nothing more to be noticed. They continue to support – and operate lobbying for – the large businesses, the large industry – and all on the back of the little ones who pay the full taxes to feel the full tax burden. Mr Federal Minister, since I am probably not going to see you all summer, I must confront you with a current problem. Don't worry, Federal Minister, it doesn't cost any budget resources, it just requires your personal commitment. Then you and your ÖVP can also show whether you really have something left for small and medium-sized enterprises. In Vorarlberg, we have the problem that, compared to Switzerland, service agreements between small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly in the construction sector, are handled very differently. Briefly for introduction or for better understanding: In June 2002, bilateral agreements were reached between Switzerland and the EU, one of which regulates the free movement of persons, replacing the existing authorisation requirement with a notification obligation for services up to 90 days. In 2004, this agreement was further improved and now, since 1. April 2006 – and even before, months before – we note that the Swiss companies in Austria may work in an unhindered manner, but the Austrians have to fight through bureaucratic conditions, including through payment to various Swiss professional groups or professional associations, through an intensification of the reporting obligation with eerie conditions. Mr Minister, you can really show something here. We have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this item on the agenda, which will be discussed in the next Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. I hope for you and for all of us that we will no longer have to deal with this issue in the next Economic Committee in autumn, because I assume that this summer break – unlike me, you will not have two months of summer holidays – will be in contact with the Swiss authorities to deal with this problem. I have already asked this question or suggestion to Mrs. State Secretary Marek at the last meeting of the Economic Committee – and see, the Secretary of State has informed me that this problem is not known at all in the Ministry of Economic Affairs! On the other hand, I am told by the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce – you all know that this is very "black"; there is a large majority of your party, namely the ÖVP, in the Vorarlberg Chamber of Commerce, who reported this problem to the Ministry of Economics three years ago. – But to date, nothing is at all! In other words, while you are still lobbying for the large industry, you still have nothing left for small and medium-sized enterprises. Mr Federal Minister, I would be very pleased if you could make the announcement to me in autumn, at the next meeting of the Economic Committee, that this point has been completed because you have been in contact with the Swiss authorities in the meantime in order to get this problem out of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22231	The next speaker is Mrs Tamandl with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22252	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I must say that I am already very upset that that Member who has been on the speaker's list before me, namely Ex-BILLA Chief Veit Sound, who has been in active position at the BILLA company, has been particularly committed to extending the shop opening times and is certainly someone who would have called for an opening of 96 hours and more, has now been deleted from the speaker list at one time! [[Call to the ÖVP:Reading ban?- Oh, my God!]] That's really baffling. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Now to Mrs Sburny, who, by the way, also in 2003, when the last time the shop opening hours were changed, Mr Mitterlehner quoted, she spoke about the lack of facilities for childcare and public transport. . I believe that child care is generally a matter of country and that SPÖ is now also agreeing here, because, so to speak, the social partners have agreed, for example, on many framework conditions within the trade collective agreement, that a awareness is created that, for example, child care facilities in Vienna will be more geared to the needs of many women in trade. And, of course, I would also like the Vienna lines to focus on public transport – interval adjustments and so on – according to the needs and wishes of commercial workers. As the colleague Grastaur from the FPÖ has spoken about Greißler's death here: Personally, I cannot imagine that a departure from this regulation could prevent Greißler's death, because I don't think this can be prevented at all. Why don't we all get on the nose? How many of us go shopping to a Greißer, even those who live in a big city? – There is almost no more Greisser, because people just don’t go shopping there anymore because they have too little time – and that’s not only those who are busy in trade themselves. I am also surprised by the statements made by members of the FPÖ, for example by Mr Zanger, which have to do with the opening times of the shop after UGB, the accounting rules of the traders who have over €400 000 in turnover and who are now obliged to take account of the accounting obligation in accordance with § 5 of the Income Tax Act. I can't understand that, but maybe you can tell me that under four eyes. I believe that the reason why many here are in opposition is that they simply don't understand anything about economic policy – whether they are for or against a regulation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22301	The next item is the speech by Mr Riepl. You've done two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22322	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Tamandl, I can tell you: The Vienna lines, which are Vienna kindergartens, I think, model for all of Austria! This should be said clearly and clearly here. There are not as long operating times, as short intervals and as cheap kindergartens as in Vienna in all of Austria! That must also be said. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Sburny.]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] We are now discussing the amendment of the opening law to which it concerns – it has already been said that this is not a simple matter – to bring the interests of trade and the interests of workers to a denominator. I believe that a good compromise has been achieved, including in relation to: the collective treaty – and this is also the reason why the Social Democratic Group will agree to this bill. Mr Minister, you have already said that a consensus could be reached – and this is actually no longer much to add, except that there were a few small points in the collective treaty negotiations, points that belong to them but have not yet been enforced. But I think we have, Mr Minister, a good advocate here – a advocate who will find the right words at the right moment so that we can continue this successful path. I would just like to say one more sentence. The Sunday rule remains unchanged, but it is also important to monitor working hours in this context. Mr Minister, you know my opinion on the control agencies. I still have the impression that labour inspectorates need more capacity. But you yourself said in committee that the capacities are not so bad. – So: Let's make it better together, let's see that we equip a few work inspectorates with better and more staff! And then something necessary in the sense of the workers would be done. Ladies and gentlemen, finally a brief suggestion, precisely because the subject of public transport has also been raised here: By flexibilising and pooling working hours, even at longer hours of work per day, the workers – which has already been discussed today – also have days off in the middle of the week, with a growing question as to whether to take a weekly card for five days or six days – and then, through shift operation or a new service assignment, it may be possible to suddenly work only three days a week, but you still have to buy a five- or six-day card. This is also a problem you should look at. But again: We of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats agree with this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22379	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22401	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In the new opening law, we have found a solution that takes into account the interests of small dealers, but also, of course, that of large businesses and branchists as far as possible. It is also important that the Sunday and holiday arrangements are maintained. However, it will show how the impact of the Opening Framework Act will be in practice for 72 hours. It is currently true that the framework that is possible is hardly used: On average, shops in Austrian retail shops are open 50 hours a week. However, we still see a chance for family, small and medium-sized enterprises, which have the opportunity to find niches and, by their flexibility, to stand out from others. I think it will be very important, especially in the rural communities, perhaps to pay more attention to the trippers in the future and to see if there could be no better shop opening times. However, the consumer is also required, because it will be up to each individual whether he is going to shop consciously to strengthen business on the spot and in the region. If we do, we will certainly receive the purchasing power in our communities and reduce the migration by a lot. It is important – let us think, for example, of the jobs of women, let us also think of the training places in small and medium-sized enterprises, let us remember what happens in small-scale trade – to look at: 60 per cent of apprentice training takes place in small and medium-sized enterprises; it is the second largest training sector we have; some 20 000 apprentices are trained in commerce. Social competence is also a very important factor in small and medium-sized enterprises. In rural areas, of course, it is also about buying in small businesses, but it is also true that small and medium-sized enterprises offer a lot of communication opportunities for family businesses, and thus also participate in local life and participate in the events in the community. And we can only wish for that: for us and for rural areas.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22440	Mr Marizzi, the next speaker, will be speaking for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22461	Madam President. Federal Minister! There is this nice slogan “Do not go away, buy in the place ”! Unfortunately, this is far from reality, because the supermarkets are created, as everywhere in the world, at the edges of the cities. I just spoke to some mayors, and they said: We have offered in our core a property in the best location at best prices, but no one settles there! – That’s the dynamic development, you have to admit. It would be wrong not to say that this whole story is naturally at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's fact, and we're sure we can't stop that. If you think you can stop it, you have to make it here and prove the opposite! Another sentence about the Freedom Party, because it has so much pressed on the tear gland today. – In 2003, the liberals agreed to extend from 60 to 66 hours. This was, of course, a solution that was perhaps different from today's, and today's solution has been agreed with the social partners. Mr Bauer has already pointed out the package solutions of the social partners, I do not need to repeat that. It is important, ladies and gentlemen, that we really keep this in mind with regard to the Euro 2008, and then we will not be able to stand in front of closed shops. The Sunday and holiday regulations have already been mentioned many times. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, a solution to the shop opening times has always been controversial and will remain an eternal discussion. We too have had emotional discussions in our club, and I think we have this time brought a good solution, which we like to agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22504	The next speaker was Mrs Fürntrath. 2 minutes of time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22525	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! There's a saying here in the Styria, in the Mariazell region, which is: You'll shave the sheep when they're there! – Therefore, as a touristist, I say: If the tourists are there, we must “shear ” them! It won't help! We need to see that we get them into our shops, that we make sales, that we do good business, as the Italians show us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Let's be honest, please. When we go to Italy: What do we want to do? Let's be honest! – We like to go shopping in the evening, and we prefer to do it on Sunday. That is why I am very glad that – and this is out of dispute – Sunday remains the way it is. That's great. Some Members have addressed the small dealers. I can only tell you from my own experience: The closing times are not what these dealers “break the neck” – under quotation marks –, these are other things such as concerted approach to opening hours, concerted approach to advertising stories, parking that cost nothing. These are the things that really harm small traders. I believe that the final decision to accept the opening hours will be the consumer – and then it is up to us whether we do so or not. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22564	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Kuzdas. 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22586	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr Fürntrath, I don't trust myself in Styria anymore, otherwise I'll be shaved. I believe that some of the speakers in the debate have not been there or have not taken care of this morning, because this draft law is an example of social partnership. Loading opening times in conjunction with the Working Time Act – quite, very important; a viable compromise between the interests of trade and the interests of employees! I repeat: a truly exemplary social partnership cooperation. It is important to mention to me, however, that the sun and holiday rest provisions are not only intact for now, but also for the future, for: When and where does the community life take place? We have a lot of commuters celebrating Sunday; as the Lord has also said: In six days the world was created, on the seventh day you shall rest! And it's the same. But two other things are to be mentioned in this context. One is the childcare facilities; not only the opening hours, but also the number and quality. This is not only about kindergartens, but also about childcare facilities for children up to the age of 14. Year of life until they can be alone at home. The second point I would like to mention is public transport. You also have to adjust driving times, course times and driving frequencies to the opening hours, because especially in the country, it is so that not everyone has a car to get to the workplace. That's where it takes a lot of things. It's very important, Mrs. Sburny, that we also take the federal states into the boat. There is a letter from the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor to the General Conference of April that the additional revenue from the mineral oil tax should be committed. That is to say, the countries are called upon to finally make commitments so that the additional resources for public transport can be loosened. - Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22628	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl, who was also two minutes' speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22649	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Keep good, but still continue to develop and allow new things, even in the course of the liberalisation of shop opening times! – While my colleague, Adelheid Fürntrath, spoke, I thought about how I was doing, and I must confess, although I am a worker representative with my heart and soul: I also like to go shopping later. It is important to me, however, that the framework conditions are right. And the framework conditions for this have been created today, also with a further step towards the flexibility of working time, also with an improvement for part-time workers. We will also take further steps together, in particular with regard to the creation of childcare facilities. I think, especially small and medium-sized enterprises or micro-enterprises, that are mainly located in rural areas, that the mayors – and the mayors – are very many here in our ranks – have the task of introducing measures for better childcare, especially for women and mothers who are working in trade. That's priority number one. I would also like to mention – as Minister Bartenstein has already said today – that the provisions on Sunday and holiday rest are maintained. I think that everything in all, with our work, with the work of entrepreneurs and employees, we have also developed our prosperity.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22683	As the next speaker, I shall give the floor to Mr Zach for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22704	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! A liberalisation of shop opening times looks quite different, so this law will not find my approval. – It’s unseemly, chances have been rejected, a lot of noise for nothing. We from Allianz for an open Sunday, “openhalten duerfen.at”, have worked to open the Sunday in particular. In this respect, there is nothing in this law. Not even eight Sundays a year are possible; Christmas or around the football club – no talk about it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] Mr Mitterlehner, himself a compromise proposal, for which there are also You have prevented the use of social democracy, namely the introduction of a national competence in order to find a regulation in national events such as the football club. I think that says enough about an economic party, I don't need to add anything. To the trade unions. – It is clear that we have different positions, but we agree that we are concerned about the interests of workers working in trade. Only I believe that the existing instruments, as we can act here, are no longer sufficient. We need to find new ways. As a Liberal, I stand up for a basic income for all. This would mean that all those who don't want to work on Sunday don't have to work on Sunday either. I invite you to work on new proposals, because already now 26 percent of all employees are working on Sunday, and I am still personally involved in too many people who do not want to work on Sunday, but have to. If we could make it that only those who want to work on Sunday are still working, then we would be at the goal. To the Chamber of Commerce. – The Chamber of Commerce – and for me this is the most bizarre example: A representative of the tradesmen who act against their own members and forbids them to open their business, even if they stand in it themselves – leads themselves ad absurdly. You will see me here as a chamber hunter who is massively opposed to forced membership. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I am pleased that you are so excited, but liberal politics and a liberal opening system look different. That is why I will not vote in favour of this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22767	The next speaker was Mr Hörl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22789	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that I am a member of the Austrian People's Party, because everyone can talk to us. It is not the case with us that the only expert here in Parliament, Mr Veit Sale, is banned from speaking. We can't do this, we can all talk. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser.]] The topic of shop opening times actually accompanies us for a lifetime, Mr. Hauser, and accompanies me as mayor of a rural community, as an economic representative in the country of Tyrol and also as an entrepreneur in the strongest tourism region in our country, namely the Zillertal, to varying degrees. We know very well from the Austrian People's Party that it is essentially a matter of bringing three interests into one: the interests of the small merchants' families, the so-called barbers, who can only keep a limited and reasonable number of weekly hours open; that of the employees in trade, for which essentially the same applies; and that of close-up services, and indeed of the whole country. For decades now, we have been trying by the Economic Federation to represent these interests through restricted opening hours. We have also tried this in the country of Tyrol on spatial planning, on land ordination, have waged a real fight for our small entrepreneurs with a lot of heart's blood and have committed ourselves to get the row. We have to find today that at the end of the King's decision, and we have really failed. I don't think we can solve this problem about shop opening times, and I'm glad we can save Sunday as a day of rest. I also see, because of this legal regulation, that it is good that our well-known Federal Minister Bartenstein is in one hand for work and business, and that we also have a balanced legal regime in the interests of our workers and the economy of this country. – I thank the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22846	The next speaker was Mr Schalle. [[Congratulations and bravorage at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22873	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! [[Interruption calls at ÖVP and BZÖ.]] [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] This shows again that there is no compulsion in our party – and that is only the case with the BZÖ. There you can take everyone's nose, there's only one thing with us! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I have been in trade for 40 years, and I have to say that we are still finalising in Austria as regards business opening times. Ladies and gentlemen, because just from the green side...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22916	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a little rest! Mr Schalle is not talking about it. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22931	... because just from the side came a lot of criticism: At “Merkur” four, five years ago we conducted a survey with the employees, and when I saw the survey results on a Saturday afternoon or on a Sunday in the office, I believed that there was an error. Most of the employees, almost 80 percent of normal employees – no; they were made external, really completely neutral, because I was personally interested – were for that. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Treasure]] [[Abg. Dr. Bauer: For what?]] For longer opening hours, which is because they have a larger framework to allocate their work. But I was particularly surprised that the executives were against it. I thought there couldn't be, something had to be exchanged, and then we questioned it. The employees said: For us this is the lead, we can better arrange the work! – they already work at 6 or 7 a.m. – and the executives have said: Our salaries are flattened, we have to work longer, we have to make new schedules! They have been more demanded and have resisted. But this is an advantage for the employees; believe me. I think Austria cannot be in Europe. That is why it is also necessary for us to take a step forward here. I was one of the greatest critics, I have taken up Mr Bartenstein relatively often in this regard, but today I am glad that we have taken at least one step up to 72 hours. And I hope that during the football European Championship in the red capitals, where tourism is particularly strong, there will perhaps be friendly opening hours in the tourist zone in the same way as in Kärn-ten on Sunday afternoon. This is also very important because the employees really make money there. 100 percent supplement plus one day free! – You must not forget what this means to a normal employee. That's a lot of money. I've also earned little money and I know what that means. There are enough people on the list who want to work at the “Billa” on the Praterstern or at the airport on Sunday. Believe me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e22980	The next speaker is Mr Kirchgatter. Speech time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23001	Madam President, Valuable Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very glad that the opinions, views and suggestions of Grasser, Prinzhorn, Schalle, Alexander Zachzu have not been enforced on this subject that the Sunday opening, which the former Minister of Finance thought useful, did not come to mean that what was the philosophy of Prinzhorn was not going to be open around the clock. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] Mr Schalle announced in September last year his demands for the abolition of the AMS and an opening time of 75 hours. – It does not happen by chance that especially from a warehouse the spear tips are always coming for as irregular opening hours as possible. Ladies and gentlemen! I think this review of Prinzhorn and the former Minister of Finance is very good for this debate; it shows the context, the right link to today's decision. Socially acceptable opening hours are of great importance for workers in trade, for small and medium-sized businesses. The market share of specialist companies whose customers appreciate the advice, which places great importance on good training and ongoing further training also depends on the purchasing power and the tax justice to large companies and corporations. In contrast to the old Federal Government, this new federal government is focusing on strengthening domestic purchasing power. The most important objective of the tax reform – and this has been expressly mentioned by State Secretary Christoph Matznetter today – is, in addition to the relief of workers, the tax justice for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23047	The next speaker was Mr Obernoster. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23069	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I think every party has its basic values. One of the basic values of the ÖVP: It is liberal, and it is against regulation. I understand the basic values of the Greens – I never knew anyone else. I simply cannot follow the basic values of the FPÖ and the BZÖ after today's statements except Mr Schalle. But the people, the voters will measure you by your values, by your slinging course, by your curfew ........................................................................... I don't understand. If I consider what BZÖ or FPÖ has decided in the government in the last seven years, then today's law is, I must say, a primer against what has been partially implemented over the past seven years. I would really like to congratulate Mr Bartenstein on this draft, on these negotiations with the social partners, because I think we can all live with it: The workers, the small entrepreneurs, the large entrepreneurs and also the location Austria, the tourist location have only been strengthened. I believe, Minister, that is a good draft government, with which we can live. The Austrians will certainly support this draft by a large majority. Austria is known as a liberal and good economic location for tourism beyond the borders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23105	The next speaker is Mr Schelling. You too took 2 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23126	Minister! High house! A long-lasting discussion with today's novelle finds a good end in a direction that is right because it is moderate. Let us assume once again what was the starting point! – The starting point was the pressure of total liberalisation also in the international environment. I only recall the discussions in the neighbouring countries, I recall the discussions in Germany. And the second was that there was a huge pressure towards Sunday opening, which was also enormously medial. Why is this step now moderate? – It creates framework conditions that are acceptable to all, because it is a common regulation of the social partners, because the framework conditions have also been set and because the large enterprises are also involved. You can read on today's issue of the trade association quoted by Grastaur that the trade association is now also committed to abandoning the opening of Sundays, except in tourist areas. We have already seen very clearly in the last novel in 2003 that to a certain extent, the market regulates itself. I would like to say one more word: Opening hours do not have any influence on the local supply, because the local supply was influenced by other measures and not by the opening hours. And it would be far more important for us to discuss in the autumn of the state reform that we get a framework directive on spatial planning and that we get an intercommunal financial balance that does exactly that, to end this competition between communities. Then we all achieved something, and then the shop opening will not play a role at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23157	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 152 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. It's accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – In turn, this is the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zanger, fellow Members, on accounting rules for food supply. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[20:13:41]] 10. Point Report by the Committee on Tourism on Amendment 258/A(E) by Mr Josef Bucher, Mag. Melitta Trunk, Dr. Gabriela Moser, Mag. Gerald Hauser, colleagues on Master Plan Tourism (159 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23238	We're on our way to the 10th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting: Mr Mayer. — Mr President, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23265	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) First of all, I should like to ask our tourist speaker, Mrs Mag. Melitta Trunk, apologise, who, as a long-standing tourist fighter, unfortunately cannot be here because she has an indispensable date. Those they know know know how much her heart is bleeding, how she would have liked to open this debate today, because she is a real fighter for tourism, and that for many, many years. Only in this new coalition has it been possible to set up a tourism committee and thus give tourism a new priority. In the past few days we have found in the post a brochure of the Chamber of Commerce, in which it is very expressly written, what great value, including economic value, and the importance of tourism. I think it is more than important and good that we have set up a committee for this purpose. The Committee has also started with enthusiasm. There has then been a survey here quite quickly in this House, which has been very observed, which has brought many new conclusions. The result of this survey was also two applications, which were then submitted here. And we were a little surprised when, suddenly, in this swing that the Tourism Committee had begun, sand came into the gear – I think that came from Mr Obernosterer, with the withdrawal of the approval for the two applications that had already been submitted, although there were reasonable applications in and for themselves – and suddenly there were problems. I am delighted and I am also speaking for our tourist speaker, Mrs Mag. Melitta Trunk, who persistently enforced with the help of the opposition, enforced the motto “Re-government” and actually put this request on the agenda, and there the ÖVP – thanked those who contributed to it – has reinlined it, namely, to fight together for tourism. That is, I think, the main challenge we have. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even if it is no longer a master plan, but a tourism strategy, we should be right, because for us, ladies and gentlemen, the content that we are moving forward here is important. The enormous importance of tourism must be defined in all minds, including those who do not constantly deal with it. Hardly in another area of the economy – and this also applies to our social life – the political framework conditions are as crucial as in tourism and the leisure industry. What are the headlines of climate experts in recent days? – century-to-century 2003 becomes normal; Alpine glaciers will disappear by 2050. What does that mean? Climate change? - Who needs to act? Politics! What does that mean for the infrastructure? - Who needs to act? Politics! What does demographic change mean? - Who needs to act? Politics! Ladies and gentlemen, clean water, clean air, trained staff, protected habitats and modern infrastructure are the points that the tourism survey has led us very dramatically. From the government programme, the fixed model regions are from our point of view an optimal offer that gives all parties the optimal opportunities to recognise the risks. It is important to awaken the enthusiasm. As an example of what can happen to ideas from such model regions, I would like to briefly tell the story of the hotel Beck in Vorarlberg, in Brand. You all probably know similar things from your federal states, but they are always only individual projects that can be created here. A hoteler has taken up bow sports there and within a few years has created several wonderful 3D-parcours in which wild animals are simulated, and he has animated a lot of archers who exist throughout Europe to actually get there. Here people walk, like others go golf, with arrow and bow through the forest. He filled the summer hole with it. So he can be pleased both in winter and in summer with a high utilization and has actually achieved all the goals he wanted. I can't list all the side effects now, because the light here unfortunately already shines. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] It is truly impressive what can happen if such model regions manage to inspire people, to bring them to develop new ideas, and to give them goals and support in their efforts to actually master future challenges. I am convinced that if we succeed in setting up these model regions of Austria in such a way that they give this new input, we will achieve the growth shift that we also need in tourism. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23351	The next item is the speech by Mr Obernoster. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23374	Madam President. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Firstly, with regard to these applications, a few brief comments to clarify this: There has never been a signature from the ÖVP and me! Mr Hauser has also confirmed that we did not meet because, according to your request, the increase of €10 million was already planned for the ÖW in 2008 and not in 2009, as we would have planned, because we have already decided on the budget for the years 2007 and 2008. Nevertheless, I am glad and happy that we have succeeded in bringing forward a five-party request that the arguments we have put forward have also been taken up, for example, the argument that we can not only boost tourism with money, but also see that we are reforming again, that we are analysing that the double-tracks and tri-drivings between regions, countries and the public authorities are being eliminated, that the tasks are clearly defined when we go out on the market, and thus we can also save decent resources and get even more on the market outside. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Our aim is to pool the money so to speak, because we know exactly: The more money we spend, the more money we have to take back! And if we keep talking about budget consolidation and savings measures, we also need to look at what we can save on expenditure in order to be more efficient and better. That's the goal, that's where we met. This cooperation between regions, countries and public authorities has a great deal of potential. That's where we all agree. And I believe that once the reform has been implemented and if this tourism strategy is on the table, we will see that we have much more money in the final effect for the market than we now have available with the additional resources that we have now basically requested. We'll see if we need these too. A typical example of this double and three-wayness that we have to eliminate – I say quite clearly – is the application for the European Championship. There are Austria at the ball, then there are Carinthia at the ball, and then there are the host cities at the ball. The Carinthia advertising is on the market in Germany, Austria's advertising is also on the market in Germany, and there is too little coordination. But I believe that it must be of interest to those who are politically responsible, so that we are interested in pooling this money so as to ensure that it is used efficiently and as best as possible in the sense of tourism for our country. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23417	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23439	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Yes, the facts are on the table: Mr Minister, the tourism industry is actually talking to you as the Minister of Economic Affairs by their demands, by their criticism, by their legitimate complaints, actually your competence! [[Abg. Zweytick: Go!]] They should finally realize what has already been called for at the hotel meeting in January, namely that we need a strategic approach, that we need better cooperation, that we need a bundled approach, that we should finally take a lead in the tourism industry in order to exploit the potentials of Austria. The tourism industries have a name for it, they call it the Master Plan. At the end of January, I made a proposal here in Parliament that we should come to a common strategy that we should develop a common master plan. But then the tug began. Mr Minister, we know that the area of tourism falls within the competence of the federal states. We also know this in other areas of your business: nine construction regulations – you are also responsible for buildings. But it has not changed anything in the nine construction regulations, not even an article 15a agreement we have achieved. In tourism, it may be the same: not a master plan, but today an all-party agreement at a minimum level. Minimum level means that the Minister will conclude agreements with the federal states, negotiations will take place with a view to strategic development. [[Abg. Zweytick: Very useful!]] I thought: Let us agree, perhaps he will, because it is necessary! Mr Zweytick, may I give you the figures: There are worldwide guest arrivals between 2000 and 2006, which averaged 3.4 percent. In Austria it is 2.2 percent. Why less in Austria? – The Hoteliers Association says that this is because we are not coordinated and consistent, because we do not use our potentials synergically, because there is a cantonist. [[Abg. Zweytick: You have to compare the level!]] Tag “Cantonist”. It has long been adopted in Switzerland. In Switzerland, there is a roof mark, and that is why Switzerland has achieved an increase of more than 4 percent last winter. But in Austria we stayed behind by at least 1 percent. All of this is the result of this uncoordinated procedure! And that's not the point at all, that we're doing better and that we're making the master plan. Now we're taking the first step. I'm curious how far this will bring us. Mr Minister, my problem is that you are Minister of Economic Affairs and Labour, that you should deal with things that you should rather leave to the Minister of Social Affairs, in order to gain more time to work for economics, especially for tourism, for matters which the Hotelers' Association also calls for. I can only give you the numbers. – It is complained that in the period from 2009 to 2015, we will have to give up total revenue to 28 million stays and thus to € 4.8 billion – that is, the representatives of the economy – if we do not act in agreement. And as a green tourist speaker, I really have nothing left but to speak to the economy: Why shouldn't we bundle? Why shouldn't we go on in accord? Why should we not make a common master plan? That is why I advocate that we consider what we decide on all sides today to be the first step and let this first step follow a second step, because we need, even as regards the potential of tourism – 16 percent of gross domestic product is generated there – growth markets. It says that we need growth markets again and again – I'm already talking about the Jargon annoyably now, because you're learning that in the first place. Mr Minister, please take this seriously and not move around and ask for it and then do not increase the budget, where we have not evaluated since 1997 or have not adapted it to the inflation rate. Mr Minister, there is a need for action! Do something for tourism! We want Austria to grow in this area, because it is work-intensive and I believe that it is still relatively ecological when the choice of transport is appropriate. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23504	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23525	Madam President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! What we decide here today in terms of tourism in Parliament is really a minimum consensus, with much, much more possible. The unfortunate thing is that we still had to face this minimal consensus that we are reaching today. To the history: In the tourism committee between the parties, we have a good dialogue environment, a good relationship, and we all have a common goal or at least have a common goal, namely, to actually move something for tourism, to do something for people in tourism – beyond the political struggles. This, I think, works very well over long distances. We even jointly have the last two requests we made on 6 June. On the one hand, the Master Plan for Tourism, which we do not need to explain, is in itself an absolutely reasonable matter and, on the other, a budget increase for Austrian tourism advertising. We were really d’accord in advance and agreed to present these two initiatives as joint proposals. But it actually happened: It then did not support these applications in the short term. In my view, this is really incomprehensible, because, Mr Minister, in this situation, you have had the great luck of also having the opposition on the part of the government. The Greens, the Freemans and the BZÖ, all felt that tourism should do something. They had all our support. They had our voice. What's going on – excuse me! – Beautiful, better than even having the opposition on his side? Unfortunately, God destroyed this consensus at the last second, although the Austrian tourism industry is already very satisfied with very little. I am thinking of a press release by the Austrian Hotel Association, which has already rejoiced because the Tourism Committee was jointly able to demand a master plan for tourism. The ÖHV spoke of a milestone in a press release. I quote: “This is a milestone in Austrian tourism history.” A long-term ÖHV requirement is realized. And on top of that: “This cross-party request shows how well the work in the Tourism Committee works and that the interests of the Austrian tourism industry are absolutely in the foreground.” It can be seen that the tourism industry on the one hand is not spoiled and, on the other hand, it has already been very satisfied with these measures. However, there has been a violent effort to put this request on the agenda at the last committee meeting, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. You have to imagine that! An initiative on which we now unanimously ask the Minister to develop a master plan, a strategy plan for the Austrian tourism industry, with the involvement of the countries and with the involvement of all tourism institutions and so on – a fundamental reason! There has already been more or less pressure, and there have already been irritations. From my point of view, this is completely incomprehensible. It is easy to see that in many areas only and only the party policy is in the foreground and the common good, the tourist welfare et cetera in the background. - I'm very sorry. [[Abg. Zweytick: You can't say that!]] Not to mention, Mr. Zweytick, of our joint initiative, to receive or negotiate with Austria advertising as early as 2008 or more 10 million €. You have to know that since 2000, Austria's advertising has been budgeted with an annual budget of €24 million from the state, that this contribution remains nominally the same and that the de facto is, of course, a real loss for Austrian tourism advertising. Now we know that strong core markets are stagnating and, of course, we have to avoid strong growth markets that simply need an additional budget. Mr Obernosterer! As a result, it was obvious to make sure that Austrian tourism advertising received more money as early as 2008. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] Please believe me: Your argument is really on hypocrisy – and I say so today: on hypocrisy! – not to be surpassed. [[Abg. Zweytick: Well, well, well!]] Now you stand at the front and say you can't do anything with money alone, so we're against this budget increase for 2008. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Obernosterer.]] I know one thing: In 2009, you will stand here and say that now we have managed to make 10 million more, a success of the Austrian People's Party, we have proven line, we stand on the tourism industry, we have hand-beat quality! It is clear that we wanted to have all this already in 2008 and that the Austrian tourism industry at the Tourism Day in Werfenweng has made a petition for this high ranking to the Minister from 2009 onwards. But what is holding us back, as early as 2008 after consultation with Mrs. Dr. Stolba, who explained to us in the Committee and in personal discussions that it would logically need more money to accept these increasing challenges, to raise this budget, after we also included in this joint proposal the formulation of the ÖVP, took over the formulation of the ÖVP for this request and also reflected the argumentation so that the ÖVP can support this request? [[Abg. Obernoster: A budget decided!]] You know this motion for a resolution, which also shows that the budget of Austrian tourism advertising in relation to economic growth is € 5.1 million a year lower than in 2001 – all ÖVP formulations. It would have been right and cheap and good for us to carry out this initiative together. It was also planned in advance, and we also had the support, for example the support of Mr Hörl, to whom I do not want to throw a stone at all, and who admitted, in his boldness and in his openness, also to the Austrian tourism industry and to the tourism medium, namely in the “Tourist Austria”, that it held – I quote colleagues Hörl, so that I could not put you under any circumstances – an unpleasant call from the Minister of Finance and the head of the party Molterer. – This is confirmed here. He has called and said, friends, there is no such thing as you are unable as a Tourism Committee and do not have the competence to spend more money, because that is what we decide. Similarly, the Secretary of State has recently made it clear to the Tourism Committee. So I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen in Parliament: Does the government now decide – the administration – on budget expenditure, or does it decide the legislative one – does Parliament speak? I think that if, in an important matter, we believe that a preference for higher teaching is necessary, necessary and important, and we had this consensus of all parties, and the colleague Trunk has actually committed himself to the realization of this consensus until the end, but in the end, however, the coalition reason has failed, then I must say: This is not – unfortunately, Mr Cap is not here – the new parliamentaryism, which is always promised to us here. If it is only recently that Sunday in the “Kronen Zeitung” Colleague Cap on the question of how to deal with opposition ideas, says that good opposition proposals should be taken up, then I must say already in the direction of Mr Cap: We're far away from that! After all, not even the proposals of the own group – the colleague, Trunk, and her colleagues – will be implemented and realized. What's the opposition supposed to move? In this context, I must say quite honestly, in my view, it is really a given opportunity for the Austrian tourism industry. The opposition would have helped the Austrian advertising to do a higher budget as early as next year. We could even have agreed on the procedure in the Tourism Committee. We could even have said that there is €6 million more for the EURO 2008, so that we can reach €10 million, we may add €4 million. [[Abg. Zweytick: That's right, the 6 million!]] We could have said all of this, but that we are just saying now, away with the proposal, which is not on the agenda at all, that is, I have to say with all my love, Mr Minister, no really positive signal towards the tourism industry. I hope that in the future, when we agree on tourism, we will be able to bring things not only to the House, but also to the House by means of initiatives. I am already excited, my colleague, Mr Hörl, what will be done with this initiative, that we may be implementing an additional financial donation for additional marketing for the Austrian national parks, which are also of high value in terms of environmental protection and environmental protection, which was also a common consensus in the Tourism Committee. - I'm excited about what's going on. Of course, we will contribute to this minimal consensus today with the Master Plan, but I would like to ask the Tourism Committee for more impact and more sincerity in the future so that we can do even more for the Austrian tourism industry. The conditions for this are real; the parties under the chairmanship of Seppi Bucher would want to do so. I hope that in the future there will actually be an additional success experience and ask for it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23624	Mr Hörl spoke in favour of an actual correction. You know the legal provisions, Mr Deputies; a maximum of 2 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23648	Mr Hauser has claimed that Mr Molterer had power in connection with the resolution tabled by Mr Bucher. Trunk, Dr. Moser, Mag. Mr Hauser, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the necessary increase in the budget of Austria's advertising, I have received a telephone call. I'm correcting: It wasn't like that. The Minister of Finance of the Republic of Austria has better to do than talk to a small representative of the Zillertal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23677	There's only one personal response. There is no actual correction of an actual correction, only a personal response. The next speaker is Mr Bucher. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23701	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been said a lot. Mr Hauser referred to the fact that this Master Plan request was basically a birth of tongues, which was not so easy to achieve. In principle, if we take personal discussions with representatives of the tourism industry seriously, if we assess the relevant technical journals, their statements and their opinions, we will come together to the realization that very high expectations are placed in the Tourism Committee, that some of the experts who are represented in them and some of the Members who are engaged can be expected. I believe that this committee is also a very good and useful tool for the Federal Minister to signal the tourism industry, as there are experts who want to bring themselves and their experiences. That is why we should use this discussion a little more effectively. As chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I am committed to upholding this cooperation and, above all, to upholding the consensus we have reached, because from the outset, all the speakers of the political groups have said that we are moving on to a line, and we do not want to pursue party policy on the back of the tourism industry which has certainly been hard-hitted in recent years. I don't think you can imagine that I wasn't trying from the beginning to get a consensus. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Fairly, we also say that the first Master Plan application has come from the Greens. - They were the first. I said that I was waiting a little until the leaders of the political groups agreed to adopt this master plan until they had talks with the tourism organisations. From my point of view, this is the right way to make a consensual effort. Finally, the National Council decided to fall here as well. This is God's thanks, too, in the last second. But I also say that there have, of course, been resistances to this master plan, which I cannot understand, because some Members – I do not want to name any names now, because I feel obliged to agree – have spoken quite differently here when we organised the climate protection survey. There was the talk of what one needs a concept, where tourism is the country, there are so many concepts that have slumbered in the most diverse drawers and cost a lot of money. Today we see how great it would be if we had had such a master plan in recent years if this interplay between the countries and the federal government worked even better if we optimised it. I say this because I was responsible for the Carinthian tourism for a while and I know what it's all about. Mr. Federal Minister, I'm just telling you from my observation: If we already had this Master Plan, then this dilemma with the €6 million for the EURO 2008 would not have been achieved, because then we would have really set up €12 million. That means we could have doubled these €6 million, which you generously and rightly provide for tourism, to €12 million, because the countries also saw that there is a longer-term concept behind that there is confidence from the countries to the Federation that this link really works. That's why I'm saying: This Master Plan idea is a real and important one, because Austrian tourism is facing a very important course. We have discussed with all the experts in the climate protection survey and have unisono come to the conclusion that climate change is taking place and is a great opportunity for Austrian tourism, that demographic development is a great opportunity for the Alps, for the Austrian tourism industry, and that, of course, the new markets resulting from internationalisation are also a great opportunity for tourism. It is also obvious that these opportunities are not equally recognised and used by all countries and organisations. It is therefore important to create a master plan to achieve a strategic target coordination with all tourism-related organisations and countries in order to ensure that the tourism industry in Austria is in a good and successful future. That is why I am happy that it has succeeded in making this joint request at the last second. I do not give up the hope that the already debated request for the increase of Austria's average advertising can also succeed by €10 million if we turn a round of mediation in autumn, so to speak, because it is true that some often need a little longer to understand the sense of meaning. Therefore, my courage to optimism that Austria's advertising will be better financially in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23771	Next, I shall now give Mr Bartenstein the floor to Mr. Federal Minister. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23793	Madam President. High house! As the honourable Member Bucher has just said that climate change may also have opportunities for Austrian tourism, I must say: May be... that there are also opportunities, but in my opinion the risks are all significantly greater. It was mentioned by honourable Member Mayer, for example, the melting of glaciers, but the risks undoubtedly go far beyond that. On the other hand, climate change must be feared at least in the medium term. This is almost safe, and that is why we have to deal with the overall impact over the next few decades. - There's nothing else left to us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria's tourism industry – many of you were in it – has been invited to my 4th meeting. May this year held a tourism day in the Salzburg tourist town of Werfenweng. Among other things, Professor Smeral presented his tourism strategic orientation there until 2015. I welcome the fact that, on this basis, we are now being invited to develop a strategic approach with the countries that, of course, should also include the countries. It was not the federal government, it was not the Austrian advertising or even I who worked a few years ago on the fact that Austria's federal states withdrew advertising from the financing of Austria. It was the wish of the Austrian federal states, and so today we have a status quo that Austria's advertising is just financed by the federal government and the Austrian Chamber of Commerce. On the other hand, it's not that bad at all. It is also a good cooperation in the countries as a whole, and it is not true that the budget in Austria has remained unchanged in recent years. It is true that the contribution of the federal government – by the way also of the Chamber – has remained nominally unchanged, but it has used a trend under Oberascher and certainly even now under Stolba, which reads as follows: Third-party funds. In this way, Austria's advertising today can enjoy a budget of over €50 million for its good and right activity. We want and want to take care of new source markets in the framework of this strategy described by Smeral. Germany will continue to be the most important source market in the future, but new markets will have to be opened up because the growth potential is limited. All year round tourism is another key word, and even more coordinated cooperation between the federal government and countries is important. Mr Bucher, I am not sure that there would have been a scenario within which the federal states and the issuing cities of EURO 2008 would have contributed. From my point of view, it would have been all the more useful to add €6 million to federal funds, not to clear up, but to knock! We want and have to act massively. This is not about confidence, but about doing the best for EURO 2008 together, at least as far as tourism is concerned. – We are not directly responsible for football. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If Mrs Moser believes that Switzerland would be so touristy as a model, then I do not let that apply to football, but even when skiing. Austria's tourism development in recent years and decades has been significantly better than that of Switzerland. No question, we are world champions of tourism in terms of per capita revenue. It may already be that in one year Switzerland once cut off in percent growth better than we did, but overall we are far better than our neighbor in the West. If you criticise the global increase in guest arrivals by 3.4 per cent, but in Austria the arrivals are only 2.2 per cent, then we must already be aware that Austria and the world's classic tourism markets will of course lose relatively market shares, because there are markets that are completely new – think of Asia, Africa or Latin America! There's a lot of things going on. The fact that classical tourism countries cannot grow at the same pace is clear. We need to define ourselves more closely towards the Italians, the Spanish, the French and – once again – the Swiss. As Mrs Moser, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell you: We're excellent. I would also like to thank the Committee on Tourism for its good cooperation. – Even when you and your party were in the government, ladies and gentlemen, Hauser, you have already passed a law which is not only valid in Austria and which reads as follows: There is a budget, this is done in cooperation between the Minister of Finance and the Government, and of course it will be decided by Parliament. But once the budget has been decided, even a very important committee is not the right instrument to draw up this budget. So, of course, Mrs. Dr. Stolba and Austria's advertising are pleased about every euro coming from outside – that's their own task – but we are already politically professional and realistic and we say: It is a double budget that has been decided, and that is what we must work for now, and we must all stick to it! Austria's advertising is not bad on the budget. I have personally been very committed to this increase of €6 million. Member of the European Parliament One can recall from his ministerial period that even then ministers have already said: There is no fresh money, but reserves could be mobilized. And so, in total, there is this €6 million for the EURO 2008, but not anymore. I would ask you to note that there is nothing in the short term to change the motions for resolutions - as I am quite clear from the Minister for Finance - because otherwise the consistency of our budget would be at risk, and this cannot really be wanted by members of the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23893	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer with a voluntary time limit of 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23914	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. State Secretary! Mr. Minister! Since March, I have been representing the concerns of a very leisure and tourism-intensive region in the Salzburger Land in Parliament, and I am particularly concerned about the work in the leisure and tourism committee. As the first essential and absolutely positive step of this leisure and tourism committee, I have been able to learn the survey on climate change, which is well known Touristists and experts have come to Parliament here. There has already been some disappointment in the hope that the Committee's work will be progressed in a targeted manner. I believe that the Leisure and Tourism Committee is really an opportunity to be used as such. In this respect, I appeal, above all, to you, Mr Federal Minister, to make real use of the opportunity of this common path of the Federal Government, the countries and also of the regions as well as of Austria's advertising. This would be absolutely possible, for example, in the implementation of the model regions, which is also included in the government programme. However, it is clear from the example of the tendering of the tourism project model region on the website of the Ministry of Economic Affairs that this common path must first be pursued, otherwise it would not be possible for the other parties to make concrete use of the tendering procedure for the processing of these tourist model regions until 31. It has not been informed and no coordination has taken place on July; nor is it about what exactly the objective of this project is to be. For example, as a model region as such can be created or designed, it is also not recognizable in the invitation to tender. Ladies and gentlemen! Actually, action and pulling would be essential. However, the proceedings before and during the last Committee on Tourism were actually a mere waste of power – one of my predecessors has already addressed the story with these two requests. Not least are concepts and long-term strategies aimed at improving the quality of tourism. Federal tourism strategies, federal structures combined with a superscription such as the “Dachmark Österreich” must be the goal to stimulate the leisure and tourism industries to grow. The primary objective must be to establish Austria even more as a brand in order to be recognised internationally as a destination. Otherwise, we will escape the economic revenues of tourism at billions, as can be seen from a study. Together we can counter this, and I urge that the Committee on Leisure and Tourism actually take advantage of the opportunity to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23960	The next speaker is Mr Hörl. Again 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e23981	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! We have agreed on this joint request in the Tourism Committee on several occasions. That is good, and I think we are, so that we can return to the way that we are doing party-political hack, just as we did before. In this request, we express the wish that the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, our Minister for Tourism, should develop a tourism strategic orientation. It is certainly useful to work together to develop regional, national objectives, to define them, and then to try to push them forward in the right way, to show and combat two-, three- and multiple-tracks. However, in this proposal we also say quite clearly that it should not be a plan in the empty space, but rather both the countries and all the organisations relevant to tourism throughout the country, i.e. also the ÖHV, all the standing organisations and the Chamber of Commerce. We do not want a rigid concept, but a programme that collects everything and continues to meet the needs and is also evaluated honestly. Of course, we have the problem of discussing the Master Plan. I think the problem is that we have to define: What's a Master Plan? – We believe that tourism is regional, that tourism should be federally organized and that it should remain the same, because there are very different regions in Austria. I have recently looked at some of the Styrian, Lower Austrian and Burgenic spas. You have to imagine, for example, that my small home town Gerlos in the Zillertal has the same number of nights as the show-therm Radkersburg or almost like the show-themed Loipersdorf! Here you can already see the different structures and the different programmes that can lead to success, and that is why I think it is right that tourism should continue to be organized federally. But it is right – and for this we confess – that we must try, in the sense of economy and efficiency, to sum up all of this and then better coordinate it once and for all. On behalf of my colleague Mr Hauser, I should like to say the following: I am also in favour of Austria's advertising of €10 million, because of course we also need the money. But we have always expressed the opinion that we cannot re-connect budgets that we have just decided before the end of this double budget. It was always the talk of 2009, because we just can't have any interest in cutting up a budget at all because I can imagine that there are other groups in this house, of which everyone then tries to get the best out of this budget for themselves. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Hauser]] This cannot be in the interests of the economy and not our interest. I am also right for our Federal Minister because the word climate change has fallen: I think it is cynical when we go here and say that in climate change, Austrian tourism has such great opportunities. Of course, in summer we may have opportunities if everything gets warmer and when it gets hot. But remember, too, that we will have problems in our countries of origin if, for example, sea level increases. I believe that things should be dealt with a little more realistically here too. I would also like to say quite clearly and clearly to the honourable Member, Mr Mayer, that this is expressly not a mistrust request to our Federal Minister and that I feel good about being a tourist in his ministry, also with his section chief Udolf-Strobl. I think we have a hort where we are well accompanied and a lot of help. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24041	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24063	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The most important thing is missing this request, and that's the money. Here I must speak to one of my predecessors, Lord. Obernoster, already contradicting: If he says money is not everything, then he may be right, but in this area it would have been particularly important! And if you listen attentively to me for the next seven minutes, maybe you'll understand why. Now one could also be angry and say that the ÖVP does lobbying for the large industry. – This is about thousands of small businesses, about family businesses, about small and medium-sized enterprises dependent on advertising. Large hotel chains – Mr. Federal Minister, I am right in giving you – Austria does not need advertising because they are internationally active anyway and are not dependent on Austria's advertising. – Since you are lobbying in this area, I may understand the withdrawal of the ÖVP from this originally common request. You know that tourism is a very important factor for the economy. Over 700 000 employees in Austria are directly or indirectly employed in tourism, i.e. every fifth job in Austria lives directly or indirectly from tourism. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Some of you were in the Tourism Committee and saw the presentation of the boss of Austria advertising, which was very informative, also very interesting and last year did not show up in bad numbers. But you can interpret numbers, you can also look at numbers, you can learn something from numbers. And what we have seen here is that in recent years tourism in Austria has lived to 70 percent of three countries: These are the Netherlands with 7 to 8 percent, which is domestic tourism, i.e. the domestic tourists, Austria itself, with more than 20 percent, and the largest market, Germany, with just over 40 percent – falling for years. The following is: There was another statistics that we have been permanently falling in comparison with other tourist destinations in Europe over the last five years. In comparison with other tourist destinations in Austria, we are about 4.2 percent and were 4.7 or 4.8% five or six years ago. That means – and this also acknowledges many country tourism destinations – that we have fallen asleep in dealing with certain markets. It is the trend in the important tourist destinations that have been falling for years, and in the new markets in Central European, Eastern European countries, we have fallen asleep in development, and above all, we have fallen asleep in the development of the Far East. If we are taking China and India today, where we know that 10 percent of the population there can afford a Nobel holiday in Austria at any time, we are talking about 250 000 people – this is the triple of what the German-speaking region is all about. And we're not doing anything?- Oh, my God! Now I come to you, Mr Obernosterer, and tell you why the money is so important: You know, every small company and every company knows today when it processes a new customer segment or a new market segment, then it costs primarily money until the level of awareness is established there until the product becomes known, and then money can flow back. And for this, these €10 million of Austrian advertising would do very well! [[Consistency with the FPÖ and the Abg. Bucher.]] And I'll tell you the following: Small and medium-sized enterprises will be grateful to the ÖVP for not going through the process of supporting this Community proposal – which even the SPÖ would have supported and for which it would have been willing to influence the finance ministers in terms of the budget to ease these funds. That's exactly the point we've slept: We've been sleeping to process new markets. We've been there for four to five years. What's that? This means that once we have to be lagging behind in the economic field or if we have to go after what is needed for an additional effort, I do not have to tell you that. You know, it's bad if you just negate over 700 000 jobs in Austria, if you negate 16 percent of the gross domestic product that contributes to the tourism industry, if you know that thousands of family businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises are affected and mainly live on this advertising. And if we do not succeed in strengthening the ‘Dachmark Österreich’ with additional financial resources, I say to you, Minister of State: Then it will happen to you as last year to our federal state of Vorarlberg. In Vorarlberg, you have set various regional destinations and not the roof brand Vorarlberg. And my colleague Elmar Mayer will give me the following: The Federal State of Vorarlberg was the only federal state in Austria last year, which has written negative figures in the tourism sector compared to the previous year's figures. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Zweytick.]] – Of course! Check it out! Ask Mr Mayer from the SPÖ, he will give me the right. This is precisely due to the fact that one has forgotten the Vorarlberg roof brand and has not supported it accordingly, has made much too little money available and has also slept certain markets – as you do now. And if you are not ready to make additional funds available to strengthen Austria's roof mark, it will be similar to the federal state of Vorarlberg in the next two, three years. Thank God, there are the country's ÖVP summits more reasonable and have now decided to go another way next year. You will probably have to feel the negatives first until you finally realize that you also need to rethink advertising and tourism in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24147	Next, Mr Magistrate. Kuzdas. 3 minutes welcome. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24168	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that international tourism is currently in a breaking phase is probably no longer a secret. Climate change is doing this, even if some Members believe that it is all right anyway. We know from studies – and in the survey initiated by the Social Democracy, these results have been confirmed – that the southern regions are getting bigger and worse by increasing warming, we know that the North is getting colder and wetter. We know that this creates an opportunity for tourism in Austria. The strategic orientation in tourism in Austria must take account of these findings. However, I am not only concerned with winter tourism and summer tourism, but above all with those tourist regions which have been underdeveloped so far, but which are also considered as areas of hope, such as the district, the district from which I come, the wine district. In the wine district we have no mountains and no lakes, so no winter tourism and no summer tourism, but we have impressive cultural monuments that do not need to hide national and international comparisons. We have a beautiful landscape and numerous culinary delights. Weinviertel is not only wine, wine road and cellar road – that's it too, but not only. If you want to experience this region touristically and perhaps also taste the excellent wine, you will find the next problem: There's hardly any opportunity to be nocturnal. The wine district is also a developing country, and if you are thinking about the ‘Dachmark Austria’ and about model regions to be developed, you also need to take into account these regions, which have so far been considered as areas of hope or development, in this holistic approach. Development potential is an opportunity to create an opportunity for tourism, a chance for jobs, for gastronomy, an opportunity for the wine district, for example, a model region taking into account sport, wellness, active recreation and gentle tourism. But also the promotion of accommodation facilities is part of this. I was pleased to note that the Federal Minister also knows that there is a Tourism Committee because he thanked for the good cooperation. In the past, it didn't always look like that. The Committee, Mr Bundesminister, is at your disposal as a cooperation partner. But we also expect from you actions – not only lip recognition, but actions: as regards the Master Plan Tourism, the development of model regions, but also as regards the financing of Austrian advertising. I think that is also the right of Members in this House. And I think it is also necessary in the sense of a positive development of tourism in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24208	The next item is Mrs Fürntrath. 3 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24229	Madam President. Mr. Minister! High house! I would like to say a warm thank you to all the ladies and gentlemen who are speaking at this speaker's desk for tourism – whether pro or double – because this has not been the case in recent years and decades. I remember: It was always the problem of us tourists and those who work in the tourism industry that we found almost no hearing. And that is why I would like to thank you once again for the discussion! Mr Hauser, because you said that Mrs. Stolba had said advertising from Austria that she wanted more money: If I remember correctly, she said I have a certain budget available and my job as managing director is to get out with this money. - That was the one point. [[Congratulation of the Abg. Hörl.]] The second point I remember – I don't know, maybe I have something wrong in memory in this case – was that she said: To be able to sell something at fairs, I need a product. – That means to me that we have to look at our businesses – the word “model regions” has already fallen – and that if we have this product in a model region, we can also sell it. We will not be able to sell individual businesses. I believe that we have also come to a halt in the markets, because there are, of course, a lot more providers, which has already been said. But it must also be remembered that these suppliers are active in a very different price segment. Of course, we will not come along in Austria. That means for Now, in turn, we must offer high quality and try to get points in these markets. Thank you once again to all those who are working for the tourism industry! Of course, my thanks go primarily to the companies, the local employees, who can act sensitively on the spot and also respond directly to the market. Because I think everything we order from above will take far too long. If the local businesses recognize the problems, they will also immediately find a solution. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24282	The next item is Mrs Pfeiffer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24304	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's five-party proposal aims to ensure a long-term strategic general approach to the Austrian tourism and leisure industry, involving the countries and all national tourism organisations. However, this Master Plan is also intended to ensure an economic-social and a sustainable-strategic target orientation in tourism policy. Ladies and gentlemen! The leisure and tourism sector has become a particularly important part of the personal services in Austria. Over 28 million people seeking recreation come to our country each year, and Austria is at the top of the world's population's tourism revenues. Our tourism survey in cooperation with the opposition parties was a great success. Again, it has been crystallized that tourism must be reconciled in particular with small and medium-sized enterprises. Our thanks are therefore due to the many employees and the many successful leisure and tourism companies in Austria. In this context, I would particularly like to mention our national parks. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that our national parks in Austria are very likely to play a role in choosing the resort? – This has proved to be the case. The level of awareness of these special areas is enormous; this is a success of the public relations of those responsible. Nature is presented to people, especially our children and young people, in a way that is significant for their whole life. Our national parks protect and explore nature, inform and offer relaxation. The habitat of rare, partly endangered wildlife and plant life will be preserved, and nature will be made an experience. Cooperation with the neighbouring tourism companies is also on a good basis and revives the neighbouring regions. I know, ladies and gentlemen, what I am talking about, I live in the National Park Neusiedler See – Seewinkel. [[Abg. Big truck: What?]] While national and international recognition is very important, we must continue to provide these institutions, in my case the national parks, with our full support – including financial support. I am therefore pleased that the tourism and leisure industry is a major concern for all of us, and I very much hope that this proposal will be successfully implemented today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24338	Mrs Mikesch's next speech. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24360	Madam President. Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The starting point in tourism is in Austria, I think, very positive. The reason for the present resolution is that every fifth full-time job is created by tourism, so we know that we can build on a very solid basis. However, we are certainly looking forward to a very big change in tourism demand, away from mass tourism, to the consumer looking for tailor-made products with a high level of experience. In order to counter these major changes, it is currently the case that the Committee on Tourism also has a great deal of attention to it. Today the money has been mentioned very often. The fact that money in tourism is worth something, but not all, shows us exactly the federal country of Carinthia. In Carinthia, the budget for Carinthia advertising has been increased from 7 million to 14 million, but it is still the case that in recent years, the figures in Carinthia have been the highest in Austria. We just see, tourism works differently. He has a lot to do with emotions, but above all with personal responsibility, personal responsibility of the tourist companies of the regions and those responsible there. We can only hope that we will find many people who hang with great hearts on our tourism country, and that we will also support and promote this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One thing is certainly particularly important in this area: Networks. We see this, especially when we look at the federal state of Lower Austria, which is also called the “Golfland Lower Austria. ” There is nowhere else such a large golf course density as in Lower Austria, and it works so well, because excellent networking, which has been necessary, has also taken place. We must also not overlook the importance of networking in culture, nature, lifestyle and speciality. I think that we will also be able to develop great tourist offers for Austria in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24406	The next item is the speech by Mrs Fleckl. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24427	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Tourism – we have heard it several times today – is very important for Austria. He is a job engine, means value added for the regions, and significantly improves Austria's reputation at home and abroad. The fact that the tourism and leisure industry is almost 20 percent of GDP is certainly not a coincidence. This success can be booked by our gastronomy and hotel industry. It is a first race because it is characterized by quality, professionalism, commitment and kindness. The second race, however, must make the policy for our tourism and leisure industry. Despite all these successes, the stagnating numbers of summer tourism show us that legal support is needed – support to create a To improve the opportunities offered by a growth-oriented tourism strategy aimed at quality tourism throughout the year. The anchoring of these objectives in this direction is also part of the government programme and now stands for implementation in the starting holes. Today's request for an overall approach to strategic orientation is more than pleasing and thanks to the persistence of our tourist speaker Melitta Trunk. But now it is up to you, Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, when the first improvements in the tourism and leisure industry can be addressed, when the way to qualitative tourism, which is also the case for families, begins with the first step, when there will finally be a transparent funding programme. I hope that it will also be in your interest to present this overall approach as soon as possible. The path of this request was a stony one, as we have heard several times before, and I hope that in the future, requests in the Tourism Committee will be dealt with more seriously by the coalition partner. However, it was pleased that the constructive work of the opposition contributed to the success and showed it the necessary commitment to the committee's activities. I would like to thank the opposition very much for this. Mr Federal Minister, it is up to you to see whether Austria's tourism and leisure industry can meet the new challenges in the travel market and above all it will be able to use them to improve opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24470	Mr Kainz has now come to speak. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24491	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Tourism in Austria is a success story – a success story that is due to the hospitality in our country, to the comprehensive year-round offers, but undoubtedly also mainly to the dedicated businesses. Thank you for this dedicated work! Thanks also to the Federal Minister Bartenstein, who is always a partner of the tourism industry in Austria and will also be guaranteed in the future! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I would also like to thank Austrian tourism advertising for its excellent work. As part of the tourism survey, we have undoubtedly been able to take a comprehensive picture of the very large work for tourism companies. Figures show this excellent work: 30 million guest arrivals and 119 million nights, these are numbers that speak for themselves. But it is only with a common path in which the federal government, the countries, the municipalities and the associations make successful tourism work. In Niederösterreich we will undoubtedly go this successful path with wine-growing, cultural offerings, sports and various areas more. But the communities are also going a very successful way, and I am pleased that in my home community Pfaffstätten there is a tourism project that will not only broadcast on the community but also on the region. I am also pleased that our colleague Hans Rädler in Bad Erlach will have a thermal bath which will undoubtedly have great effects in the region. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am looking forward to this success course and I am confident that the Austrian tourism industry will continue to be successful for the benefit of the the citizen, but above all also for the benefit of our guests.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24542	Mrs Schasching is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24564	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today is the day of the decision for the 2014 Olympics, and the hope is that Salzburg will be able to stand up to its overpowered opponents. Ladies and gentlemen! From today it is only one year to EURO 2008. The tourist value of large sporting events is only to be underlined in this context. A study by the WKO of February 2006 published under the title “Sports Economy” points to this in particular. The effects of sports on tourism and thus on the economy of Austria are taken into account both through the “sport-motivated” tourists, the so-called “active” sports tourism, and the impact of the annual major sporting events in Austria, i.e. “passive” sports tourism. In total, more than 57 million nights in Austria are spent each year on sports tourism. Induced effects on the sales of the respective sub-categories of tourism could be calculated in further sequence. These are impressive numbers, ladies and gentlemen: Restaurants and restaurants recorded sport-specific revenues for the year 2003 of €2.4 billion, the area Hotels/Guests/Pensions €2.5 billion, followed by travel agencies/tour operators with € 756 million. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important economic factor! And not only are these figures to illustrate the value of so-called major sporting events for the Austrian market, but also the economic effects, infrastructure and socio-cultural effects, psychological and political effects are quite impressive in this context to be read from the study. That is why I was somewhat surprised that Austria's advertising was so in the background, especially when applying for EURO 2008, and it was totally incomprehensible to me why it did not come to a much more open cooperation here. Because one thing is perfectly clear: When I look into our neighbouring country of Germany – where the 2006 World Cup has brought with it a huge upswing – I think that only the statement of the German Centre for Tourism reports on the experiences with the 2006 World Cup [[Call to the ÖVP: You can't hear anything anymore!]] [[Abg. Steibl: You don't hear anything! Do the other micros also down!]] [[Further call-ins]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: You don't hear anything at all!]] Besides tourism, transport companies also benefited, and the brand Germany gained enormous sympathy. Seeing all of this in connection with a common master plan is top category and top goal. Therefore, it would be necessary, as the first measure, to immediately consider a crisis summit together with the Austrian advertising, Mr. Federal Minister, together with the Tourism Committee, with the countries, the Host Citys, to make it quite clear here again that the sporty application of our lan-de also has an enormous effect on the hotel industry, gastronomy and the entire Austrian tourism industry. [[Abg. Steibl: What is it now? Is that an advertising speech?]] – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24643	Before I give the last speaker the floor to this item on the agenda, I would like to ask for a little more rest, since it is obviously really loud in the last benches on the one hand and on the other hand it is the worst heard there. The acoustics of the hall is not the best, we know, and therefore it needs a little discipline. [[Abg. Steibl: No, the acoustics was always good! We understood everything!]] [[Further calls.]] The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hauser. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24681	Madam President. Estimated Minister! I now have a bad conscience directly if I go out as the last speaker after the many honours your colleagues have put in your direction. The fact that I am now putting up with a word that I think is realistic here was not planned, but Mr Hörl has quite motivated me to make one more, two things right. Of course, and thank God, Minister, tourism in Austria is in itself a success story, so I admit it to you. [[Abg. Kainz: Success story!]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] We're all happy about this, please! It is also our job to see that it remains that way. So back to reality: We reached 119 million nights last year; we already had 130 million, you know, it was already more. Or: Our market share in European tourism is declining and is currently 4.7 percent. Mr Minister, you too know: We already had 6.7 percent! They know that our share is constantly shrinking, and that is why we are invited to produce not only hot air here in the House, but to go decently to the matter. That is why we have also put in place an important initiative, namely to increase the budget for Austrian tourism advertising. If you now say, Mr Hörl, that it was not within the Tourism Committee to allow additional funds to flow towards Austrian tourism advertising as early as 2008, I must say: [[Abg. Hörl: That's wrong!]] That's really wrong! The colleagues of the other political groups sitting here – I am really sorry that Mr Trunk is not here; you know that too – I know that. Of course we talked about 2008. You have been with me and with my colleague Dr. Stolba, and we have also discussed the importance of this budget increase with her in the context of a private discussion. – I don’t want to compromise the doctor because she doesn’t tell us anything else. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] But again: From her point of view, it is perfectly clear that it needs more resources if the federal government has not been able to increase the budget since the year 2000! Of course, the budget has increased over cooperation and sponsorship, but of course it needs more. It has occupied 33 outposts with staff, and only over the increased staff costs since 2000 do we know that a budget increase is urgently needed. She will also come in 2009! Only: In 2009, this will be sold as a huge success of the ÖVP, which is apparently not possible in 2008, although all the parliamentary parties were of the opinion that this budget increase was already granted to the Austrian advertising in 2008. That would also have been important and necessary, and that has been argued by the previous speakers. I do not need to repeat these arguments further, that is not necessary. [[Abg. Zweytick: 6 million for promotion...!]] One more thing, Mr Hörl, and that's why I'm here at the speaker's desk: You corrected me and corrected me. I just quoted from the “Tourismal Economy Austria” what you quoted to the editor on 15 May. ==References== I may, please, quote from the “Tourismuswirtschaft Austria & International” and put it on record. There was held by the editor Günther Greul – I quote –: In any event, the fact is that the ÖVP representatives were significantly involved in the preparation – so we are now talking about the proposal for a budget increase in Austria’s advertising – and of course knew that the budget increase was already required for 2008. People's Party Tourism Spokesperson Franz Hörlräumt an unpleasant call from Minister of Finance and Head of the Party Molterer, in which he strongly pointed out the two-year budget already adopted. - Quote. Dear Franz Hörl! It was right! It was an inconvenient call. You were also of the opinion that already in 2008 the budget should be increased. It's so documented here. If that's not right, please make it clear with the editor Günther Greul. It's definitely a fact and it was so! We have agreed to do something together for tourism. One more word in the direction SPÖ: I have to say, so Col. Trunk is really very successful on the road. I would like to see other colleagues who have so much support for a request from the Group. That's what we've experienced today. This does not seem to be as possible in other committees. In any case, I would also like to thank Melitta Trunk for having kept a word on the one hand, on the other hand standing on tourism and on the other hand not leaving tourism and, above all, the tourism committee on the other. It was it that was there at all meetings, and it has always been noted that we should achieve more together for the Austrian tourism industry. We're or were on a good path. If today Mr Hörl finds that you should come back to the way of consensus, that is absolutely right for me and us. Dear Franz, I look at how we continue, and I'm already excited if we manage to win additional marketing resources together for the Austrian National Parks. That's what you wanted again and again. I am already excited about the next committee meetings in autumn. Under the rule of law, I think that this debate was necessary today. That was a given chance. However, I also believe that with Minister Bartenstein we finally have someone with whom we can also discuss important things for the tourism industry. And that is why, as a positive thinking person, from my point of view, I give the Committee on Tourism the opportunity to do something together. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] It's only important, dear friends of the ÖVP: You must stand by what we discuss internally, even if then and when a sharp, cold wind blows out of your own ranks. You'll have to take a bond with the SPÖ. The Melitta Trunk has stopped – a woman who has proved male strength here. [[Abg. Steibl: ( towards SPÖ) What about equality?]] Take an example of the Melitta Trunk. Then we will do more for Austrian tourism in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24794	Mr Obernosterer spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr deputies, you know the rules: First of all, the case to be corrected, then the corrected one. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24822	Mr Hauser's words are self-qualifying. However, I would like to make the correction because we are always talking about 2008. I have here the request made by Mr Josef Bucher, the chairman of the Tourism Committee, and we have discussed this request, and it is quite clear in this proposal that: An increase in Austria's advertising budget by €10 million annually from the 2009 budget year. - I don't want to read any more. Black and white is the request made by Seppi Bucher, President of the Tourism Committee. Mrs Trunk and Mr Hauser have spoken orally “2008”, and we did not go there, and nothing has been signed. – Thank you for the correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24859	In the future, it would be very good to refer to the facts to be corrected, Mr President, in order to have the comparison of what has been precisely corrected. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] That's true for everyone! Of course, this is always a gratification. No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 159 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – This has been adopted unanimously. (E 28.) [[21:35:35]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (100 D.B._Other Organiser Agreement amending the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 March. June 2000 (174 d.a.) 12. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (98 e.g._Other Organiser Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States meeting within the Council on the financing of Community assistance provided for in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2008 to 2013 under the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement and on the provision of financial assistance for the overseas countries and territories to which the fourth part of the EC Treaty applies (175, e.g.) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (99 e.g._Other Organiser Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, amending the Internal Agreement of 18. September 2000 on the measures to be taken and the procedures to be followed for the implementation of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement (176, e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24939	We now come to points 11 to 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. First of all, Mr. Dr. Bösch. Requested time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e24969	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! According to the Financial Protocol to the Cotonou Amendment Agreement, the Community's financial contribution to the ACP States, which is to be renewed in this Agreement, amounts to just under €25 billion for the years 2008 to 2013, and the share of Austria in the 10th. European Development Fund will amount to € 550 million over this period. In our view, ladies and gentlemen, this is not little, especially if we consider the success of these resources and if we also see that in many areas they are exclusively eye-catching. We also suspect that with many projects financed by these funds, there is essentially only the calming of conscience in the welfare world. Ladies and gentlemen, we liberals believe that efficient development aid is not a question of the quantity of resources used, but only of quality, requirements and the use of these funds. In our view, it is an error to believe that the more money is spent, the faster the requirements in these target countries will be improved. The EU's 2005 target of using 0.7 percent of the gross national product by 2015 is therefore also considered to be the wrong way. We need better democratic conditions, democracy and legal certainty in development policy cooperation in these target countries in which the funds of the European Union are running. We need fair trade relations, and it does not seem to us to be the right way if the regional markets are destroyed by supported goods from European countries. A readmission obligation for citizens of these countries who are subject to criminal penalties in the area of the European Union seems to us to be overdue. Ladies and gentlemen! To pour 0.7% of the gross domestic product into a barrel without soil, we think we are irresponsible. Moreover, we must also be aware that 0.7 percent of GDP would be more money than we are spending in Austria for the defence of the country. I don't want to play this against each other now, but I want it to show the relationship. However, we believe that weighting should be done properly. It's supposed to be: Austria first! Resources should only be transferred abroad if the conditions are right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] According to the conviction of our liberals, development cooperation must be put on new feet. We will therefore not agree to this extension of the agreements.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25023	Next, Mr Glaser. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25060	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The term 'development cooperation' is defined by the colleague. Bösch, although he had quite a few correct approaches in his speech. However, I think it is primarily about him that simply not as much money should be invested as is necessary. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The three government documents dealing with the amendment of the Partnership Agreement between the ACP countries on the one hand and the EU on the other are a review and further development of the so-called Cotonou Agreement from the start, with particular emphasis being placed on new points. On the one hand, this is the explicit reference to the Millennium Goals, which are known to you all. This is the second of the reinforced fight against terrorism and weapons of mass destruction. It is in the area of development cooperation that one wants specifically to support the promotion of traditional knowledge, the fight against poverty-related diseases and the strengthening of regional cooperation. I believe that these are absolutely important areas where we need to get more involved. All in all, the basic focus of this agreement is on more dialogue and on more partnership, something to which one can confess without reservation. It is clear, of course, that the extension of this agreement does not solve the problems we face in the African, Pacific and Caribbean countries. But it is a good and important step. I also think that we must continue our efforts to support these groups of countries. In this context, I am convinced or hope, we say it so that the promise of the G-8 will really be fulfilled at its meeting in Heiligendamm. It is safe to ensure that the EPOs are well prepared for the bilateral economic cooperation agreements that are under negotiation. It really needs to be ensured that these countries are not disadvantaged but, on the contrary, that the competitiveness of these countries is strengthened. I think that must be one of the most important goals in these EPOs. It is a question - I can give Mr Bösch the right way - of maintaining jobs or creating jobs there in order to keep migration as low as possible. And it is also about reducing dependence as a whole being the best way to advance development cooperation. In this sense, I would like to ask for support for these three government proposals.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25114	Mrs Bayr is now speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25146	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Yes, this five-year review and adaptation of Cotonou's treaties, especially for Austrian and European policy, brings some of the following conclusions and needs. For example, keyword promotion of traditional knowledge. That is, I think we as the European Union must adapt our approach to the negotiations on TRIPS, to intellectual property rights, in accordance with the requirements of the Cotonou Agreements. This means that indigenous knowledge must be free of the fact that no one comes and, for example, patents medical knowledge or knowledge of food production and then perhaps requires patent funds from indigenous peoples in the future. This means that food sovereignty must be the first priority. Or: Tag fight against poverty-related diseases, especially HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria. Also, it is important to look again at TRIPS, for example, to see that there are affordable drugs, that there should be no more licensing payments for HIV/AIDS drugs, and that it must be okay to produce generics and use generics in order to give the poorest of the poor the opportunity to come even to a modern, effective medical and health treatment. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Tag promotion of youth exchange and associated training cooperation. This means that universities have to face global problems, both teaching and research. This means that there must be scientific cooperation with third world countries. This means that there must be better conditions for students from these countries. For example, because of university autonomy, they still pay double tuition fees at some universities, which I do not think should be. It is important to press ahead with filling up scholarships, and there must be no further exclusion from the labour market of students meeting performance criteria. Poverty control keyword. ==References====External links== EDF must be kept in mind from the outset that Parliaments and civil society are involved. It is important that – the EPOs have been mentioned by my previous speaker – the compensation payments – the developing countries have paid a lot of adjustment costs due to the expected EPOs – not only from the former pots, but also that there is fresh money for the fight against poverty in really all sectors and all countries, that there is a greater transparency of decisions on resources and that there is really the involvement of local actors. We have been one of the MDGs this week, a very disillusioning balance sheet, and Africa in particular threatens to achieve almost none of the objectives. That is, we will have to find very urgent answers if we want to take ourselves and our own decisions seriously. In any case, priority is the increase in the budget for development cooperation. Hats ahead of colleagues in Germany, which in 2008 will increase the budget for their development cooperation by €750 million. € 750 million, which are really fresh money, coming from almost unexpected tax revenues. I very much hope that the working group of Mr Matznetter and Mr Winkler will be at least as successful over the summer, although in the Austrian dimension of course, and they will then present us with a stage plan in autumn, as we will really achieve by 2015 the 0.7 percent share for development cooperation. There is also a lot to be done at EU level. Austrian commitment to a foreign exchange transaction tax is needed to provide funds for development. I think it will be necessary to set a health focus within the Austrian EZA, especially in order to put HIV/AIDS on the one hand, but also reproductive and sexual health on the other, in a good, consistent package, because otherwise these diseases can interact in particular with many development efforts. All in all, we face a lot of challenges until we can live in a developed, wealthy and equal world in health and education. And these three proposals, but above all the political consequences that we will have to draw from them, are, I think, a very necessary step in this direction. And as SPÖ, we will support these three agreements. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25200	Now comes Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25222	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start by referring to a course of action which has amazed me very much in this Parliament, namely the fact that these documents have been put on the agenda at all in the Committee on Foreign Policy. We were very surprised by the Greens when we received a circular proposal that the club directors of all the other parties had already agreed to, that there is a shortened procedure for it, and that there is not even the opportunity in the Committee to discuss it, more than 14 percent of the total Austrian development cooperation funds that go into the European Development Fund! It is due to our veto on this process that there was the opportunity at all in the Committee on Foreign Affairs to discuss it, and the Secretary of State could also explain some things to us from the point of view of the Federal Government. I find it more than incomprehensible why all four other parties wanted to agree to such a parliamentary self-caste. I mean, if it doesn't matter to you where the Austrian funds go, then yes, but that can't matter to an Austrian Parliament where this sum of funds – for example for the European Development Fund – goes! So I hope that in the future there will be no more attempts according to the motto: Let's do it quickly, quickly, and let's not talk about it, and in the plenary session of the National Council, we'll vote it out quickly, and everything's over. – So to speak, as a parliamentary appeal in the run-up to my remarks. My previous speaker Petra Bayrund also Mr Glaser mentioned the Millennium Development Goals, which have now received a lot of attention in our media in recent days. It is half-time, it is clear that the countries of Africa in particular do not achieve these development objectives as they now look. This means that the objective, for example, that maternal mortality is reduced by three quarters, will not be achieved. The high maternal mortality is avoidable! It is possible if there is a good health care. It's possible! It's not something you say: This is not to be done, it is related to the climate or to any fateful approach, but it depends on political decisions. This political will simply lacks to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. However, this is also missing in Austria, which is also missing within the framework of the European Union. Petra Bayrhat said that she hopes that the working group between State Secretary Matznetter and State Secretary Winkler will actually make progress and achieve a stage plan, as Austria will reach the 0.51 percent we have pledged in the EU by 2010. There has not yet been any answers to our questions as to how this should be done. The above increase means that there must be some €400 million in fresh money in the 2009 and 2010 budgets. Mr State Secretary, I have not yet heard of you where this sum should come from, whether you already have a plan for it. Because only what the communities do and what the communities and countries pay a little more will this not happen! We need massive efforts here so that we do not have to stand there as one of the richest countries on earth and say: Unfortunately, we do not keep our promises. – This would naturally fit into the picture of the broken SPÖ elections. On the issue of Cotonou review: We will give our approval to all three templates. We also find it useful and important that some positive things are included in this new review, such as strengthening the political dimension or strengthening the International Criminal Court in this agreement, that the countries agree to cooperate with it. The stronger partnership approach is also positive. We see a problem in the extension of Article 96 by now saying: All possibilities for political dialogue must be used before the agreement is announced to a country that is, for example, infringing human rights. We fear that, for example, this will go so far to countries such as Sudan or Zimbabwe that you will never come to this measure, but say that you will continue to talk, speak on and speak on. With someone like Mugabe, I think, the possibility of speaking has been exhausted, and there would be a great deal to consider, for example, the announcement of this agreement. As far as the European Development Fund is concerned, there is also an agreement from us here, but for the future there are two things that we will be more demanding, namely more control rights of the European Parliament, but also of the national parliaments – and finally the budgets of the Member States that go into this EDF – and, secondly, that the funds be relocated. Only 8 percent of the European Development Fund funds go to agriculture and rural development – and that in countries where the majority of the population, the poor population, lives from agriculture. In other words, it is necessary to rework as it is necessary to devote more money towards rural development. This is particularly worrying in the context of the economic partnership agreements already mentioned, which are currently being negotiated between the EU and Africa. If the African countries' markets are opened up for highly subsidized European agricultural products, that means no more income – not even the small one they have had so far – for small farmers in the African countries. This means that these EPOs must not continue to negotiate in this sense. be! You must give priority to regional production, to food security for poor peoples and must not force the opening of markets on pressure from the European States for its very subsidized agricultural products, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I expect this from the SPÖ and also from the ÖVP. They always represent the interests of the rural population! This is especially useful for the Austrian smaller farmers. It may be different for the large farmers, but the small farmers do not use anything if there are not the same criteria for all, in the north and in the south, as a basis. One last thing, since my time is already over and I and my colleagues and you all – I think – do not want to overstep this time today: We agree, although we want to strengthen the involvement of both the European Parliament and the national parliaments for the EDF in the future, as already mentioned. And we demand that there be a greater focus on rural development, on agriculture, on the poor people in the African states, because without that there will not be the achievement of the Millennium Goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25325	Mr Scheibner has now come to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25346	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I am glad that today I can speak after Mrs Lunacek. In the Committee, she always talks about me and always accuses me when I express my support for increasing the resources of development cooperation, why we did not do so during the time of government participation. – Well, at least there is a difference: We could move something, if not everything we wanted. That's going to be You probably can't succeed. You can go out here and just ask – that's the difference – and then criticize that we haven't done more. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We are proud that at least this principle, that development cooperation is important, and that it has to be gradually increased and implemented. [[Abg. May. Lunacek: No fresh money!]] And in the future, we will also express our support for whether this fits into your political concept or not – I will leave it to you. I will not continue to be hurt by you, and I will express my support for the fact that the debt or credit provisions should not be included in development cooperation, but that they should be fresh money. Criticism and caution are always appropriate – I agree with honourable Members. The question is: How are the funds used? How is the use of funds controlled? This is an important issue again and again. Nevertheless, we say that development cooperation is important. That is why we will also give our approval to these proposals. We're in the opinion – and that's what we have. It also criticises the Committee, and for humanitarian reasons it is important to act. However, even if one argues that immigration should be suppressed, migration prevented, illegal immigration prevented, one can not only do so by monitoring the borders, but should first and foremost ensure that people in their home countries have a future perspective in a material way. This only works through targeted development cooperation at national level, but above all at European level. We have gone one step further, but not yet where we should go. But after all, it's a step, more will follow. We shall vote in favour of these templates.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25398	Mr Winkler has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25419	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Only a few brief comments on the three agreements that are under consideration. The EU is the largest donor of development cooperation funds worldwide. That is good, but at the same time it also brings with it a very high responsibility. Of course, this means – and we are talking about a lot of resources here! – be used properly, well and efficiently. This is understood by itself, and that is precisely why the Cotonou Agreement has been changed in a way that should allow the better use of the funds. It has already been mentioned that this is a better partnership, a better and more intensive political dialogue. Above all, it is about combining development aid funds with promoting democracy and human rights. It is obvious that the funds can only be used well if there is good governance in the recipient countries, if governments also deal responsibly with these funds if corruption is combated and the European Union, the Commission, can verify whether these funds are used properly. The use of the funds – and we are talking here of € 22.6 billion for the next five years, which, moreover, is a considerable increase compared to the 9. The Commission is responsible for the European Development Fund, which covers some €13 billion. The Commission programmes the use of these funds together with the beneficiary countries. And that is also good because the recipient countries themselves are supposed to say where their priorities, their development goals are. These must, of course, be in line with the Millennium objectives, in line with the European Union's requirements and expectations. But, finally, the recipient countries themselves decide on the use of the funds, and the European Commission is reviewing whether these funds are being used efficiently. Mr Bösch, I have to say, especially during the Austrian period. The Presidency has made very essential decisions which ensure this efficiency in the use of resources. We have succeeded not only in improving efficiency, but also in improving transparency and improving coherence. I therefore believe that it is not right to say that these funds are wasted. I believe that these funds are being used very properly and very well in the interest of the recipient countries – and ultimately in our own interest. It has already been pointed out that there is, of course, a close link between migration on the one hand and the improvement of the situation in the countries of origin and transit. Finally, I think it is a moral responsibility of the richer countries – and we have the responsibility! – that we also help the countries that need it accordingly. That's what we're confessing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We confess to the goals we have set ourselves. These objectives are objectives which this Federal Government has also set out in its programme. We will reach them, and we will work for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25471	Next, Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25492	Madam President. High house! I am glad that this agreement, which has still been concluded under the Schüssel government, has now been amended in a sense as we have already sought it at the time. I believe that the very consistent work of the then Foreign Minister, Dr Benita Ferrero-Waldner and the current Foreign Minister and the Secretary of State, has really borne fruit in that Austrian concerns have been incorporated into the amendment to the agreement: for the first time, as mentioned by the State Secretary, the reference to the Millennium Goals, on the second, the commitment of the beneficiary countries to cooperate more closely in the prevention and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and on the third, that there must be cooperation with the International Criminal Court, especially in the poorest countries, in those countries where there are very frequent military conflicts. I believe, Mrs Lunacek, that the adoption of the Millennium Goals in particular ensures that a coherent strategy can be established between the European Commission and the individual countries. You and I, we have experienced when visiting recipient countries that the coordination of the individual donor countries and the EU on the ground is partly excellent. I am therefore right if you say that we have to use more money in total for agricultural projects, especially where there are not many other sectors of activity. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, however, I am saying that it must not be Austria, which places its emphasis on agriculture, if we are to act in a coordinated manner in the various countries in the field of medicine or in the field of education within the European Union. That is why I am sure that we will continue to improve the quality of European development cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25531	Mr Rädler has now come to speak. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25553	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I hope it's 30 seconds left for me. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I should like to mention briefly: It is a question of whether the horizon is a boundary or perhaps a gate, an opportunity for further development. Mr. Bösch! I hope that your foreign policy horizon will not stop at the borders of Austria if you say here at the speaker's desk that the money will be wasted and that is pure eye-catching. I am rather with Mrs Lunacek, who believes that it is necessary for us to be able to promote regional developments, initiatives and implement them. Our future is determined by how this continent can work together with the other continents. This is important for our children. I am very glad that 550 million € from Austria will be made available for this by 2013. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25595	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreement amending the Partnership Agreement between the members of the African, Caribbean and Pacific Group of States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Cotonou on 23 March. In June 2000, and the final act in 100 of the Supplements, the approval was granted. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG, that all authentic language versions should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Here again, I ask those ladies and gentlemen who stand up to do so to give a corresponding sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, on the financing of Community assistance provided for in the multiannual financial framework for the period 2008 to 2013 under the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement and on the provision of financial assistance to the overseas countries and territories to which the fourth part of the EC Treaty applies, in 98 of the Supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG, that all authentic language versions of this State Treaty should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Internal Agreement between the representatives of the governments of the Member States, meeting within the Council, amending the Internal Agreement of 18. In September 2000 on the measures to be taken for the implementation of the ACP-EC Partnership Agreement and the procedures to be followed for granting approval in 99 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 B-VG, that all authentic language versions of this State Treaty should be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. Here again, in the event of approval, I ask those ladies and gentlemen for a sign. – This is accepted by a majority. [[22:10:23]] 14. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (97 e.g._Other Organiser Protocol on Explosive Pesticide Residues (Protocol V) (173 d.b.) 15. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (133 d.a._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Energy Community on the seat of the Secretariat of the Energy Community (177 d.b.) 16. Point Report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government template (29 d.a._Other Organiser Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Security of United Nations Staff and Associated Staff (178 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25708	We now come to points 14 to 16 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We shall therefore proceed to the debate immediately. As First of all, Mr Grossruck, has been mentioned. Desirable time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25739	This is not my “desirable time, ” but I take note of it. Thank you. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Ladies and gentlemen, we should all today be pleased that we will be adopting the agreement on the seat of the secretariat of the South-East European Energy Community. There will be another international organization in Vienna, Austria, and our foreign minister Plassnik has not said wrongfully that Vienna is on its way to the energy capital of Europe. It is about integrating the south-eastern European countries, the so-called Balkan countries, into this common energy policy, primarily natural gas and electricity, and the future energy concept is to be developed together. I think we should all be for it, ladies and gentlemen. In conclusion: Of course, these days are overshadowed by the committee of inquiry. Let me therefore draw up my opinion, so to speak, to give a minority report on the committee of inquiry: It's off with the firepower the red-blue-green huntership. Despite long, intense hopes, They never met in black. Are months spent for nothing – except for nothing. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25806	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. I would like to speak for 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25827	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The focus of Protocol V on explosive residues to be approved today is important and necessary protection measures for the civilian population. These are measures after the end of an armed conflict in order to minimise the risks and effects of explosive martial residues. We welcome this protocol, because long after a conflict has ended, fired and unexploded ammunition poses a significant and secretive threat to the civilian population. It is also a major obstacle to the reconstruction and resettlement of regions destroyed by wars. Finally, the victims are mostly civilians, and women and especially children are particularly affected. A number of countries are facing the problem of explosive martial residues. According to UN figures, between 15,000 and 20,000 people per year are victims of mines and explosive martial residues, which can be expected from a much higher number of darks, because very often the victims are located in a difficult area, far away from aid organizations or communication facilities. Protocol V sets out a combination of legally binding rules in the main part and recommendations for preventive measures set out in the Annex. It is hoped that the obligation set out in this Protocol to eliminate explosive residues of fighting equipment will be appropriate to limit the consequences of conflicts. An important initiative in this direction has recently taken Austria. After discussion of a ban on stock unions in the National Council during the last legislative period, the Council of Ministers decided in February 2007 a moratorium on the use of scatter bombs and cluster ammunition. It would be desirable to have a rapid legal regime, which would result in a comprehensive ban on the flow of electricity, both at national and international level, because without such measures, refugees cannot return to their homes, farmers would not order their fields and children would also be allowed to return to their homes. Don't play outdoors. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25873	Next, Mrs Mag. Lunacek. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25894	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! There will also be approval by the Greens of all three templates. A few words on the government template on the protocol on explosive martial residues. We are glad that this is at last, four years after the Protocol has been adopted, in fact, also for ratification. Last year, when we called for an Austrian initiative in our motion for a resolution for the ban on scatter bombs and streumunition, and the government parties of that time have not yet agreed to it, the Foreign Ministry has always argued that there is still a lack of Russian language and that is why it cannot be ratified. I am glad that this has finally been successful and that it is available to the National Council for ratification. I would also like to say a few words on the issue of bans on scatter bombs and streumunition. We were very surprised and pleased to see ex-Bundeskanzler Schüssel sitting in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, when he was sitting in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, once on his own, saying that it would be useful to put in place a ban on streumunition and scatter bombs. At the time when he was still Federal Chancellor, a No was added by both the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence. So there is progress here – apparently this has to do with the position someone has, and perhaps with whom you want to get angry, or whatever. At any rate, it is positive that this is also seen by the ÖVP in this way, and it is also positive that this moratorium should already exist. What we still lack, however, and this is also in the own-initiative proposal of Mr One who is present to this Parliament, is the demand that the Austrian federal army also destroy the stocks it has on scatter bombs and clusters; destroy and destroy them so that they can no longer be used and not rot in the camp. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I know that this costs something, but if you are already trying to ban a moratorium, it is only consistent if you destroy what your federal army has in stockpiles. In this direction, we will continue to work, and I hope that the SPÖ, which once also called for, will not be able to get around the ÖVP again and says: Let's keep stocks, because maybe we need to use them somewhere. Disperse bombs and brimstones are human weapons, which cause massive suffering among the civilian population in post-war times, especially in non-war times, and as such they are to be despised and destroyed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25943	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Kurzmann. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e25967	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Following the discussions in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, but also following the statements made by the previous speakers here in the plenary session, a unanimous adoption of this important agreement as regards Protocol V is to be drawn up. This Protocol deals with effective measures to combat explosive residues. This can be tank mines, that can be human mines, but that can also be hand grenades that have been thrown and are then not detonated, i.e. martial residues in former war zones. These war-relicts have caused – and have been rightly pointed out – humanitarian disasters, especially in the civilian population, in the case of women and children. There are very, very many people injured after wars, after fighting, and it is therefore perfectly right to limit the consequences of such warfare. Therefore, this Protocol No V provides for direct aid measures, but also for preventive measures, and no one will close it. However, what the previous speaker has just referred to is not regulated by this Protocol No V, the so-called 'Streumunition'. This will only be reserved for another agreement in Protocol VI. Ladies and gentlemen, if you talk about explosive combat-residues in foreign countries, you will also rightly be able to expect Austrian politicians to deal with the relics of wars from our past. I am speaking here very specifically to the plane bombs of the Second World War, which are becoming a problem in Austria too. The detection and disposal of aircraft bombs is always a problem for private individuals if such aircraft bombs are not found in the public sector. There are no bombers, because they are inaccurate and incomplete, but there only help a professional recovery and also a professional compensation. So if someone has the wrong to discover such a plane bomb on his private ground and ground, then it has to be disposed of and disintegrated at its own expense. It's always unsatisfying. Of course, we should also help in other countries, but it is also the task of Austrian politicians to ensure that the population is also supported in their own country. That is why, in November of last year, we liberals have tabled a motion for a resolution here in the House. So far, however, the government has become inactive in this regard. We liberals therefore urge the government that the relics of the Second World War, namely explosive war-residues from the Second World War, which are on Austrian soil and soil, will also be eroded at the expense of the general public.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26013	Next speaker: Mr Scheibner. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26050	Mr Jarolim, you don't understand anything about this – and little about other things. [[Cheerfulness at the BZÖ.]] But we have the calls to every item on the agenda, we already know that. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He has no idea of the Rules of Procedure!]] - Yeah, not at all. And we know actual corrections, too. But most importantly, he's in the scene! This is also a function for a Member of Parliament: paid well as a caller – not bad either. Ladies and gentlemen! But it is now about other things that are very important. Three agenda items, we will vote in favour of these agenda items. [[Abg. Eder: Always the same, my colleague!]] Should we be against it? Be glad once we're for it once you've come up with something! At least that's a good thing. The international protocols are something that you can agree with. The government proposals she is bringing here are less successful, so you can agree less. If you take an example of the international templates, there is a greater majority. Another call to respond to, my colleague? - I'd like to do it. The fight against drugs is an important matter, because, of course, there are military conflicts – and of course one can regret this – that there is the use of ammunition and of means of combat. It's not avoidable. However, what is at least to be minimized is that after these battles have ended, the civilian population is at risk. That is why such protocols are important, correct and necessary. What has gone a little bit along, also with Mrs Lunacek, but also with others, is the ban on threshing. This has nothing to do with this meeting place, but when it comes to averting suffering from civilians, it is also to discuss it. No question. But above all, this is the question of the definition: What's Streumunition? What are bombs you want to prevent? Because even a scrap pattern of a shotgun is a current union if you define it so. I don't know if you're also for the ban on shotguns and scrap ammunition. We wouldn't be. This is really about protecting the civilian population. The Bundeswehr also has streumunition, including grenades. And I'll tell you: Again, we will not be in general for the destruction of this ammunition, but it is only about preventing blind people and other non-exploded material from endangering the civilian population. We are in favour of this, we are ready to talk, but a general ban would therefore not make sense, because those who do not comply with these bans would be very well used by the ammunition and others who are then offered to take action against such non-democratically controlled non-governmental groups would then not have these methods. So, conversation yes, but you're not supposed to pour the child out with the bath. But we also agree with these three protocols.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26105	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26127	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is essentially about the explosive martial residues that the civilian population... – Right! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I hope you remember. You always take a little longer, so it's good to say something a few times. It is therefore a question of protecting the civilian population. They are almost always children, they are affected by the inhabitants of corresponding areas. 32 countries have already signed. It would be important for those States that still have to deal with such weapons residues to join here. The aim can only be to protect the civilian population. However, it cannot – at least not yet – be the goal of abandoning ammunition. Unfortunately, God will also be necessary in the future for us and many other ammunition to ensure security for the countries.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26162	Mr Heinzl is now speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26183	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Energy Community is an international organisation whose aim is, first, to create a binding regulatory framework for stable regulatory conditions for an integrated energy market for gas and electricity, second, to strengthen security of supply, third environmental standards and energy efficiency, and fourth, to promote energy exchange. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wrong speech!]] These objectives are in line with EU climate action. Especially in countries with a strong growth potential, decoupling economic growth from energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions is important. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] – Listen, Mr. Westenthaler, maybe you can get it too! I'm still on it. Just listen! Mr. Engineer, you're going to get it! The energy community should also facilitate the implementation of investment in the region by international financial institutions. In return, the Parties are obliged to implement measures to significantly improve the quality of the environment throughout Europe. This will bring about the harmonisation of Member States' energy and environmental standards in the near future. – But this, Mr Westenthaler, seems to you to be sausage because you do not understand it anyway. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is particularly important for international energy exchange and for the prevention of environmental dumping. In view of the investments in the energy sector planned over the next ten to 15 years, this is of great importance. The long-term objective, of course, is integration into the European internal electricity and gas market. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria has successfully applied for the office of the secretariat of the Energy Community, which will have its seat in Vienna. I am delighted that Austria will become the seat of another international organisation, and I am very pleased to declare approval of this agreement by the Socialist Group. Our group also agrees, of course, with the Convention on the Security of United Nations Staff and Associated Staff, which extends the scope of that Convention to operations for the purpose of providing humanitarian and political assistance or development aid in the context of peace-building and humanitarian aid. You know, to this end, a determination of the Security Council or the General Assembly has been required, and now the protection of personnel is regulated by contract – Mr Westenthaler, careful! – and precisely because Austria is actively involved in the United Nations’ operations and should continue to be so in the future, the expansion of the protection of personnel and thus also of Austrian participants in these operations is so important.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26226	Next, Mr Donabauer. 1 minute welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26247	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Security of United Nations Staff and Associated Staff: The scope to date was too limited; it was only for peacekeeping measures. This optional protocol now extends the scope of action, thus ensuring better protection for the forces. On the Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Energy Community on the seat of the Secretariat of the Energy Community: an important measure which goes back to the Government of Dr. Schüssel. With 1. The founding agreement was concluded in July. Energy policy is about international networking and cooperation – very important! This Agreement guarantees the inviolability of the seat of the Secretariat, the freedom of jurisdiction, the inviolability of archives, the exemption of taxes and duties, the privileges and immunities of the staff of the Secretariat and the Director and so on. This agreement will further strengthen the very, very important role of Austria as the seat of international organisations. A reasonable and forward-looking approach, which will certainly receive broad approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26281	Mrs Fuhrmann is now speaking. 1 minute desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26302	Madam President. I believe that this was an important step in view of the current discussion on energy and energy security, and through this agreement between Austria and the Energy Community, Austria was able to increase its international importance. I would like to congratulate Austria on being a non-Contracting Party of the Energy Community, the seat of the Secretariat, which has the task of supporting the partner countries in establishing a common energy market on a European model. I believe that with this secretariat, as well as with the OPEC and the International Atomic Energy Agency, which also have its headquarters in Vienna, three major international organisations can be found in Vienna. This will enable Austria to become a European hub and perhaps even an energy capital in Europe. I mean, that's very positive, and you can only congratulate that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26337	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteurs do not wish to conclude. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Protocol on Explosive Pesticide Residues in 97 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty must be made known by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their agreement to do so to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request made by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Energy Community on the seat of the Secretariat of the Energy Community to be approved in 133 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty which is in force: Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Security of United Nations Staff and Associated Staff, 29 of the Supplements, to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act that the Arabic, Chinese, French, Russian and Spanish language version of this State Treaty must be made known by giving them public access to the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:36:14]] 17. Point Choice of a writer
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26418	We're coming to the 17th. Agenda item. Because of the excretion of power. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter from the National Council must be chosen as a writer. The proposal of the parliamentary club of the Austrian People's Party for the writer to be elected is to Dr. Gertrude Brinek. Since there is only one election proposal, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? This is not the case. We shall now proceed to the election, and I would like to ask those Members who are in favour of the election proposal of the Austrian People's Party Parliamentary Club. – This is unanimously accepted. Thus, Ms. Dr. Gertrude Brinekzur is elected a writer. [[I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President, for his excellent report.]] [[22:37:25]] 18. Point Election of substitute members to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26484	We arrive at the 18th. Agenda item. Ladies and gentlemen! I may ask for a little more attention, and we are still in voting or voting procedures. There are electoral proposals for the following substitute members: May. Andreas Schieder, Michaela Sburny. Since only one election proposal ever exists, I will be in accordance with § 66 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure shall not vote against them, but shall be cast off from the seats by raising them. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the adoption of the election proposals I have announced, to be a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. [[22:38:21]] 19. Point First reading: Request by Mr Bettina Hradecsni, colleagues on amendments to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act (LMSVG) (209/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26542	We arrive at the 19th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mrs Hradecsni. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26570	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! As mentioned above, the present application has the content of the amendment to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, with regard to the introduction of a limit value for uranium in mineral water not yet taken into account, which may bear the reference ‘appropriate for the preparation of infant food’. Uranium is usually rightly associated with radioactivity. In this case, however, it is not primarily about radioactivity, but rather about the fact that uranium is a heavy metal which occurs in nature, in rock, in the soil, in the air and in the water, and in traces can also be contained in many foods, i.e. also in mineral water. However, uranium should not be identifiable in mineral waters that may be used for the preparation of infant food. Whether or not a mineral water is suitable for the preparation of infant food, the Austrian Mineral and Source Water Regulation regulates us. There are the maximum values of the various minerals, which are sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium and so on. This is necessary and also very useful as babies and young children have a very sensitive organism that must not be burdened with too much minerals and also heavy metals. As has been said, the heavy metal uranium has not yet been taken into account in this regulation. The German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment had recommended about a year ago that baby mineral water should not include any uranium at all, and then did this a little revised to 2 micrograms, which are just tolerable. The German Bundestag decided in November 2006 a limit of 2 micrograms of uranium per litre of mineral water, if this is recommended for the preparation of baby food. This scheme is in line with EU legal requirements which exempt Member States from introducing limit values for the protection of their babies. Uranium is in the urgent suspicion of damaging the kidneys, but also the lung, the liver and even the bone marrow when the body absorbs too much of it. Furthermore, it is not really satisfactory how the childlike organism absorbs this heavy metal. However, investigations have hardened the suspicion that the child's body absorbs uranium far more than the adult. It's also quite logical to imagine a baby, a child, and an adult. Although there is a limit of 15 micrograms per litre of water defined by the WHO, this refers to an adult body, i.e. to the adult human body. The other minerals laid down in the Austrian regulation are also primarily used to protect the child's kidneys, because the kidney is particularly burdened by residues. Due to the German decision, the VKI has probably commissioned a very extensive test and found that all baby mineral waters which have market significance in Austria are well above the German limit of 2 micrograms. However, there are also very positive results, including in the case of very low-priced Austrian mineral water, where uranium values are very, very low. I am well aware of the conflict of interest, and I also know the argument of the mineral water manufacturers. Nevertheless, I consider it essential that a limit value for uranium be set in the Austrian Mineral and Source Water Regulation. We should always keep in mind that parents who buy mineral water do so, especially because they want the best for their children. And that's why we have to make sure that they get the best and the safest for their children.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26630	Now comes Mr Mag. Maier speaking. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26667	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The previous speaker has already made the point very clear: It is about uranium in mineral water – and mineral water is also used for the preparation of infant food. In order to clarify it once again, so that the problem is known to all, I suggest that since 2003 the problem has been identified by investigations by European consumer organisations, a major study in Germany in 2004 showed that more than 50 percent of all mineral waters do not comply with this limit value of 2 micrograms: Uranium is radioactive, is a toxic heavy metal, it can damage kidneys, liver and bones, it can also be stored in the brain and placenta. High house! I therefore believe that there is a need for action, not only at national level but also at European level. The Consumer Information Association – I say, the most successful social partners’ organisation – identified this problem in the spring of this year and pointed out that we need action here. But – and I emphasize – it is not only a question of marking mineral water, it is also an information requirement for the water plants, because uranium is a natural heavy metal, which can also be stored in normal water. We must therefore work at two levels: Labelling requirements on the one hand and information requirements of water plants and water operators. We can imagine on the part of the Socialist Group that this concern will be met in the context of the evaluation of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, unless there is a clear regulation at European level. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to see the opportunity and point out that in a three-quarters hour of Austrian broadcasting, the application 2014 will be reported by Salzburg. As a Salzburg Member, I would like to take the opportunity to thank all the Members of this House who have supported this application very much. I myself believe that a principle decision will fall in Guatemala: whether the capital wins or a sports policy application such as from Salzburg. If it comes to a decision where capital prevails, you, the High House, will have to think about the Olympic thought.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26710	Next speaker: Mr. Dr. Rasinger. Desirable time: 1 minute. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26731	Madam President. High house! Also as a Vienna and above all sports operators I wish Salzburg much luck or neck and legbreak. But now on the matter of uranium in mineral water: Of course, you have to think about it when there is uranium in the mineral water and the children get it to drink, whether the industry gets an information requirement for the parents or not, because I do not want a small child who wants to feed his parents healthyly to be burdened with uranium in the water. We all know: A little uranium is probably harmless, because it occurs in nature, a lot of uranium is bad. And I think there will probably be a limit value somewhere in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26764	Now comes Mr. Ing. President. — I call the Group of the Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26785	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This is a really failed request. The only thing that bothers me is that the idea wasn't ours. In fact, many concerned parents have access to various waters from the supermarket shelf when it comes to preparing baby food, infant food, and you think you're doing something good to your child. However, as we now know, there is a relatively high uranium content in many mineral waters. It tastes purer – it sounds good, but this is for example a brand that has a relatively high level of uranium. We must expect, ladies and gentlemen, that, of course, there will be resistance from the mineral water industry, just as was the case in Germany, where the German Mineral Fountain Association has said, that is all completely harmless, uranium is something quite natural. – That’s right, uranium is something natural. Lead is also natural, but you should be careful not to take too much of it. The fact is, uranium is a heavy metal, damages the kidneys, is slightly radioactive and therefore not the best for our children. I would remind you in this context that the protection of the interests of the economy can also go in a completely wrong direction. You certainly remember this discussion about the American long grain rice, which was contaminated with the genetically contaminated rice LL601. Even then it said: We would rather not tell consumers what varieties are affected to protect the interests of the economy! We are all in favour of providing consumers with the information they need. 2 micrograms of limit value, which must then be indicated – if more than 2 micrograms are inside a mineral water, then this should also be indicated – that is a reasonable value, although we also know that more than 10 micrograms are not health promotion for adults. Ladies and gentlemen, it is still the best, however, when it comes to infant nutrition, usually to our good tap water. In most cases it is ideally suited for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26825	Mrs Haubner has now come to speak. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Madam President, you will probably not plan to go over time very much; You have a total residence time of 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26849	Madam President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As today's last speaker, I will, of course, take a short look at what my previous speakers have said about the content. I think this is a request to be welcomed by all parties, a request which deals with the food number one, namely the water, in connection with the preparation of infant food. We all know that infants in particular react very sensitively to toxins and ingredients in the water – and unfortunately it is not that drinking water is relieved everywhere. Some drinking water has a very high nitrate content, and this is also not to be used for the preparation of infant food. We will certainly have enough time to debate in the Committee on the subject, to debate here in plenary, how to and whether we can identify in this regard. I say to my group: We want everything to be done in the area of infant nutrition in order to avoid any risk and any risk and to eliminate any risk. That is why we must do something on this issue too. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26879	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 209/A to the Committee on Health. The agenda is exhausted. [[22:53:22]] Vote on request for a deadline
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26912	We shall now proceed to the vote on Mr Cap's request, Mr Dkfm. Dr. Stummful, ladies and gentlemen, the Banking Investigation Committee a period of up to 5. ==References== [[Abg. May. Kogler: Surrogacy!]] I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this deadline request to give a sign of approval. - That's the majority. This request is therefore accepted. [[22:53:30]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-07-04-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00027_d7e26951	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 259/A to 267/A have been tabled. Question No 1125/J to 1173/J has also been received. Finally, Mr Reheis and Mr Graf have been asked to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 5th. July 2007, 9 o'clock, one. The agenda of this meeting is to be found in the written communication distributed in the room. Before I close the meeting, I announce that a meeting will be held at the local VI immediately after the end of this meeting. This meeting is closed.
