ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5075	The 37th. The meeting of the National Council is open. The official protocols of 35 and 36. Meeting of 17 March 1990 On October 1, 2007, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, the Members of Parliament are reported Haberzettl, Cursor, Mag. Worm, Gahr, Mag. Hakl, Mag. Kogler, Dr. Pilz, Mag. Rossmann, Ing. Hofer and Scheibner. [[11:00:50]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5109	The Federal Electoral Authority has received the notification that Mr Caspar, Member of Parliament, has waived his mandate. Instead of deputies Dr. Caspar, the deputies became Mag. Gertraud Knoll to the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make the fishing observation. After reading the vow formula and by calling for a name by the writer, the new mandater will have to do her fishing with the words “I promise”. I am now asking Mrs Binder-Maier to read the vow formula and the name call.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5155	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5176	I very much welcome the new Members in our midst. [[General condolences.]] [[11:02:06]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5204	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: “Close with the right hand – right to stay for integrated” I announce that the meeting will be transferred live by the ORF by 12.20 a.m. As the first speaker, Mr Klubobmann spoke to Dr. Van der Bellen. I give it to him and draw attention to the fact that the speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5239	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with a few general words about the situation of Austria in the course of the international migration of workers. I believe that in Austria we are not sufficiently clear that immigration and immigration are perfectly normal, especially within the European Union. In the last few years in Austria, grossly about 80 000 to 100 000 people have been killed per year. At the same time, approximately 40,000 to 60,000 persons – depending on the year – have migrated so that net immigration – depending on the year – results in about 30,000 to 50,000 people. That is a lot, but that is normal within the European Union! These are huge currents. And these currents of immigration and emigration will increase more within the European Union over the next few years than will decrease because language barriers will be reduced – they will continue to exist, but they will be smaller – because young people are better trained, once they take up a job abroad, return or not. That will be quite a matter of course, just as it is today. If you are interested in the data: The OECD issues an annual report to the International Migration Outlook, where these data are best recorded, as far as they are available. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware that these migration flows are only to a small extent influenced at national level. You are not at all influential, Mr Strache, as far as migration flows within the European Union are concerned – not at all! [[Abg. Rosary: Completely wrong!]] [[Abg. May. Hauser: That's why Italy has indicated...!]] This is precisely a fundamental principle within the Union that there is a non-discrimination of self-employed and self-employed workers, so in Austria there must not be discrimination between Austrians and EU foreigners and in Germany, for example, should not be discriminated against in favour of German workers and other EU foreigners. This is an advantage for Austria: For example, if a young person wants to go to Germany or to England or Spain to work there for a while, he does not need to hire the foreign police and request a residence permit. I think it's wonderful. But it does not only have advantages – keyword: Universities and medical education – if this principle of non-discrimination is applied in other areas. We also make ourselves too little clear – I think – that these migration flows are high within the Union and that, in particular, they are EU “foreigners” – referred to as “foreigners” – who migrate to Austria. In the last ten years, on average, it has been the Germans, German workers, who have made up the highest share of net immigrants – regularly! In 2005 – this is the last year of statistics – immigration of people coming from Germany was about twice as high as immigration of those who came from Turkey. This, of course, has something to do with the relative economic situation. As long as the economic situation, the economic situation, the labour market situation in Austria is better than in Germany, Germans tend to immigrate – a few thousand people, 10,000, 15 000 people each year – to Austria. That's a good thing! This is a good indicator when there is net immigration in Austria, because it is a certain statement about the relative economic situation here. We cannot seriously set ourselves the goal of ruining the economic situation, the economic situation in Austria, so that we could have a net migration from Austria. This would be a perverse political result of the migration debate. And last, not least, ladies and gentlemen: By 2011 at the latest, freedom of movement will prevail within the European Union of the 27 Member States. And we should not put the head in the sand before that, but prepare for it! This is a labour market of around 500 million people, who are in principle free – free to look for a job and settle down where you think it is right. – This is not taxable from Austria. What is limited taxable is immigration from third countries, from non-EU members. And here we find a painful year after year – and I believe that I am of the opinion of the ÖVP at least with the Economic Federation, the Economic Wings of the ÖVP – that Austria has no immigration concept for immigration from third countries. – I am talking about classical economic migration, not asylum, not family integration, but classical economic migration: not a concept. Why not look more closely at those countries that have such concepts – especially the internationally known model available via the Internet, the Canadian model – which have certain ideas about desirable immigration, regarding qualifications, language skills, training, professional experience and so on? Any potential migrant volunteer can ask that question. In Austria we are far away. Since the adoption of the resolution on the foreign law package by 1. In January 2006, we in Austria have the tendency to see foreigners in connection with crime – as if migration was not quite normal! This is a dangerous attitude in the long run! First of all, it ruins the reputation of Austria as a country of immigration: Immigrants who will urgently need us if demographic development continues as before, and immigration, which from an Austrian point of view, as far as the EU is concerned, is not taxable at all and should not be taxable at all. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] There was a prominent guest in the TV “press hour” last Sunday on this foreign rights package: Univ.-Prof. Karl Korinek, President of the Constitutional Court. [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] I read this to you; the text can also be accessed via the Internet, Mr Westenthaler. Professor Korinek is unusually violent in this regard as regards foreign law. [[Abg. Strache: He sees no more neutrality given!]] “The legislator should finally do something, ” says Dr. Korinek. “That’s where everything in the back and in the front doesn’t fit.” – These are literal quotations. Dr. Korinek continues: We – the Constitutional Court – lift up parts, other parts we check because we are concerned that they are unconstitutional. In other parts, it is unclear what they should mean. – Laws of which it is unclear what they are supposed to mean! And then we're going to go on: We need to specify the right to stay by setting up the criteria. In other cases, an eighty-year-old disabled Turkish is to be postponed or, as a few weeks ago, a six-month-old child, although the mother is currently legally in Austria. ‘One knows about these mistakes.’ “The legislator,” says Korinek, “is finally about collecting these mistakes and designing the law properly and repairing it itself.” The Constitutional Court can “just fix one piece” where it is called. In his view, this is a “highest warning to the legislator. ” [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What else do you need, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties? We are all the legislators, but of course the two government groups SPÖ and ÖVP are required. And you want to wait two years to evaluate this law? Two years, although the information is available? Korinek says: “I don’t understand that they say we know about the mistakes, but think about how we improve it, we don’t do it until two years. I don’t understand that.” – No one in this country understands why you need two years to correct mistakes that are obvious. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You must explain this to the public, SPÖ and ÖVP! This concerns a more precise formulation of the so-called right to stay. This does not mean that every foreigner can now stay in Austria whenever he wants. For example, Korinek mentions three important criteria: Length of the duration of the already here – three years, five years, one can debate about it – criminal impunity – yes, we also share this opinion! – and integration into the population here. We can then debate what that means, what it is to be said. But I think if the children have gone to school here, they can do better German than their native language, as in the case of Arizona Zogaj, for example, the parents have found work and are integrated here, then it will be. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Intervoke of Deputies Mag. Hauser and Ing. Westenthaler.]] Ladies and gentlemen, consider what you are doing to Austria and the economic situation in the long term by continuing to ignore these outstanding issues of foreign law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5360	Mr Platter spoke on a preliminary opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5382	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to clarify the following: The 2005 Foreign Rights Package was and is important and correct, and it was an absolute must that we decided on this foreign rights package in 2005. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] It has been achieved that Austria is much less attractive to asylum abuse. It has been achieved that Austria is much less attractive to illegal immigrants, and it has also been achieved that a bar is being pushed forward to the tractor organisations. Let us take a look at the figures as they were in 2005! In 2005, there were around 22,000 asylum seekers in Austria. In the same year 2005, there were 28 000 asylum seekers in Germany – only ten times the size of Austria! – and in the United States, which is the world’s leading source of asylum seekers, there were 48 000 asylum seekers. So: 48 000 asylum seekers in 2005 in the USA, in Germany 28 000 and with us 22,000! There was a disproportionateness there, of course, that one had to decide on a corresponding foreign package. It has also shown the effect: In 2006, there were 40 percent fewer asylum seekers, and even this year, when I see the viewing period by the end of September this year, there were 10 percent fewer asylum seekers. That is to say, it is undoubtedly going in the right direction in the interests of Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, a second point, why this foreign rights package was needed: Austria is a country with a high standard of living. Austria is a country where we have an excellent health system and an excellent social system. Of course, you also have to understand that there are people who prefer to live in Austria rather than in some other countries. That is why we have clearly distinguished asylum from immigration in this foreign rights package. Asylum is a very clear right. If someone is politically persecuted, has more to expect, torture, death penalty and the like, then he gets asylum in Austria. That's a right. This help, we give this protection. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But what can't be is that you migrate across the cover of asylum. And that is why immigration is also clearly and clearly regulated. The fact that immigration is to be made in the interests of our labour market is an opportunity that Austria has to decide and no one else. I believe that we have taken an excellent, reasonable course here, because of course we need key workers, we need economists, we need scientists and researchers. That is why we have made a reasonable arrangement so that we can have it ourselves in the interests of our Austrian labour market. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Member of the European Parliament Van der Bellen, you referred to the right of residence and also quoted Mr. Dr. Korinek. But you will also have heard very well that President Korinek did not talk about introducing a general right to stay, but individual decisions are necessary. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: General amnesty!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's not true!]] What does a general right to stay mean, which you so demand and want? – A general right to stay means: Let us see that we are living in Austria for some time, so that we can ultimately have a right to stay in Austria, regardless of what the conditions are. – This is not our way, Mr van der Bellen, ladies and gentlemen. All criteria need to be carefully looked at, an overall assessment must be carried out, and only then can one decide on a humanitarian residence permit. As far as the criteria are concerned, we are entirely of the same opinion – what the Constitutional Court says and what we have worked out in the Ministry of the Interior. That is why I see here a very clear and clear similarity with the actions of the Ministry of the Interior and the Constitutional Court. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's true, we've got a back store. That is why I am very grateful to my predecessor Lese Prokop for the fact that in 2006 we carried out an enormous increase in staff at the Bundesasylamt, but also at the independent Bundesasylsenat. We have now reached a trend turnaround for the first time since the end of 2006. At the end of 2006 we had 39 743 open procedures, now – period of consideration until September this year – 33 560 open procedures. In these nine months we have been able to reduce by more than 6 000 open procedures. This is a very positive fishing. Thank you very much also to the officials who are providing these services! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful that we can discuss this hour today – for the following reason: It is my intention and our intention that we can deal with the asylum procedures in Austria relatively quickly. This is necessary, and that is why we have made a very important decision in the Council of Ministers today, namely that an asylum court is installed in order to complete all asylum procedures in one year and that the second stand will also be reduced by 2010 at the latest. I am very grateful for this decision-making today in the Council of Ministers. This provides that, at the last instance, the Asylum Court decides that no appeal to the Administrative Court will be possible, except in fundamental legal matters. We have carried out the decision in such a way that this decision, if the Administrative Court decides on fundamental legal issues, must take place within six months. This will ensure that these procedures can be handled very quickly in the future. Of course, the appeal of the Constitutional Court is possible – of course, no question at all – but a delegation to the Administrative Court is no longer possible, because this would again be very, very long. That is why I believe that this is a good day for our asylum policy today, as we have a very clear system to ensure that the procedures are completed quickly and quickly in the future. The further procedure will be – today the decision-making process in the Council of Ministers – that parliamentary treatment will take place this year, and I hope here that it will be widely agreed on this very useful solution as far as the handling of asylum procedures is concerned, so that ultimately from 1. January 2008 this law will enter into force and the asylum court will be operational in the summer of next year 2008. That is why I would like to thank you for the opportunity that I could say this on this day of the decision-making. As I said, A good day and a happy day for asylum policy in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5501	I draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other participants at the current hour according to § 97a Abs. 6 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 5 minutes. Next, Mr Parnigoni. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5526	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! This current hour gives us the opportunity to inform the public in a timely manner about the planned steps to resolve asylum problems. Mr Platter has already suggested: Today's Council of Ministers has decided on a proposal that will provide the basis for the establishment of the Asylum Court. This new asylum court, coupled with a clear increase in human resources – about 200 first and second instance employees – gives us the chance that the new asylum procedures can be carried out quickly and quickly and thus the legitimate asylum seekers know very quickly that they can stay in the country, and those who cannot get asylum know very quickly that they have to leave Austria again. At the same time, there is a chance that the high number of open procedures in Europe – we have heard: 33 560 can still be done very soon. The aim is to remove this “backbag” by 2010. It is also gratifying that President Korinek welcomed the new asylum procedure system during the press hour last Sunday and called it constitutionally in order. He literally carried out – I quote –: I have no abstinence; this solution is legally possible, it is planned as a constitutional law and therefore not to be challenged by constitutional law. We, the Social Democrats, have contacted the German Federal Office for Asylum and Migration in advance, with its head, Mr Albert Schmid. The Germans have succeeded in rapidly reducing 450 000 open cases in cooperation with the courts. We took three aspects for ourselves to Austria: First of all: A human increase in asylum agencies is absolutely necessary – what is done with today's government decision. Secondly, Everything must be done to ensure that the quality of the decisions, including those in the first instance, is as high as possible. I'm allowed to hold: At present, 40 percent of the first instance decisions are subject to withdrawal by the independent asylum Senate. In Germany, more than 90 percent of the first instance judgments are held in the second instance, and only less than 10 percent are withdrawn in the second instance. Thirdly, This has become possible because in Germany there is a daily and scientifically based state documentation describing the situation in the countries of origin of asylum seekers. I'd like to hold on: In these scientific departments, for example, text blocks are prepared with regard to the state situation, to which the first instance can access accordingly. Due to the quality of this state documentation, the follow-up bodies, i.e. the second or third instance, have been able to deal less with matters, but essentially only more with legal issues. High house! I believe that it is necessary to proceed in a similar way in Austria too, and I would ask those responsible in Austria to maintain close cooperation with the German colleagues. We have received the offer that the Austrian authorities could have access to and use these databases. - So much for asylum. Now a few words about the so-called foreign-right puss that the Greens are updating here today. . I would like to point this out to the sharpest. At the internal committee meetings on the 2005 Foreign Rights Package, during which I was able to hold the presidency, the head of the Federal Chancellor's Office has the specific question: Are there any unconstitutional provisions in this package?, this clearly denied. Other professors of law have confirmed this. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to point out that the SPÖ has succeeded in negotiating 50 unconstitutional provisions contained in the first draft. I would also like to say that, in this context, the statements of the President of the Constitutional Court at the “press hour” must be taken seriously. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: He dares, the Parnigoni!]] I would never beat the President of the Constitutional Court for decisions of the Constitutional Court, but he made an appearance as a politician at this “press hour”, and I can only say: His statements were incompetent and incorrect and were rather an in-house discussion than a statement by the President on a public matter. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Wow! He takes a today’s, the Parnigoni!]] Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it would have been helpful if the President of the Constitutional Court had clearly stated where there were constitutional shortcomings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5578	Next, Mr Kößl. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5599	Madam President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I also see this present hour as a really good way to present yourself here today. Foreign law, already presented by the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, is a success story for Austria and for the people of our country. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The figures and facts show, and the Federal Minister has already pointed out the extent to which there are declining figures. That does not mean, however, that not everyone who has a real reason for asylum and comes to Austria has the opportunity to get asylum here. But that also means that we have the opportunity to take appropriate action against abuse under the Foreign Law. It is already apparent that there is no reason at all for us to change this law in any way, but that this successful path must be continued. The open asylum applications, which have also been addressed, are gradually being dismantled, and the new asylum court has certainly been able to reduce this “backbag” that we have by the year 2010. The asylum court, I believe, will also speed up the proceedings. Today I have also given the impression that the green asylum and immigration are very much mixed and that the demarcation that exists here is not properly recognized by the Greens. Asylum is a right, a human right granted by independent judges – in any case in second and third instances – or not. Migration, on the other hand, is based on the labour market. That is, we determine how many people with which qualifications to come to Austria – and with “we” I mean Austria. And now for the right to stay. – So with the ÖVP there is certainly no general right to stay in Austria. The ÖVP stands for order, security and consistent compliance with the laws. [[Abg. Sburny: For consistent deportations!]] And right must remain right! Illegal stay cannot be rewarded with a general right of residence. Rejective decisions of the Supreme Courts must be taken and must not generally be converted into a right of residence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz]] In addition, we, the ÖVP, are in favour of a responsible policy. [[Abg. May. Weinzinger: What is responsible for this?]] We have not only a responsibility for all asylum seekers coming to Austria, but also for the migrants who come to Austria or in Austria. And of the 8.2 million inhabitants of Austria, about 700 000 do not have Austrian citizenship. So we are a very open country, we are very accessible to people in themselves, but we must now, of course, try to put integration ahead of immigration. A general right to stay would mean: If someone is in Austria for a longer time – and this is also by Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen – whether legal or illegal, whether towed or locked in or as a criminal cell, whether as a criminal or not, you only have to subdue for a while and thus be in Austria, then the right to stay is applied. [[Abg. Sburny: You didn't listen!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] There is a very concrete survey by several bodies, whose results show that half or two thirds of the Austrians do not want to recognise a general right of residence, but rather – as has been prepared by the Minister of the Interior in cooperation with the federal states – they want this catalogue of criteria to ensure a humanitarian residence permit in individual cases. And this is happening and can be implemented in individual cases. I think we're on the right track. The right to stay in this form will continue to be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5713	Next, Mrs Mag. Weinzinger to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5734	Madam President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! Point one: Mr Platter is wrong in at least one essential point when he tells us how important and right this foreign rights package was, because it leads to fewer asylum applications. – Minister! Those fleeing from persecution have a right to apply for asylum in a European state like Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's where you disagree?- Oh, my God! You object, and do you think that there is no such right to apply for asylum if you are persecuted?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No one said that!]] – We've come that far! May I put to your heart the Geneva Convention on Refugees, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, International Human Rights! – Lecture number one, I suppose, at the university. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] [[Abg. May. Hauser:... sell us for stupid!]] It is therefore not for the Minister of the Interior and his laws on foreigners to prevent people from applying for asylum and obtaining asylum. This is a right to which we are internationally committed – and this is also a central point: It's about human rights! These are internationally guaranteed, and it is not in the discretion of an ÖVP minister whether they are distributed or not distributed. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We are already at the next point: Mr Parnigoni is wrong in so many points that the speaking time is not enough for me now, but he has wished that President Korinek would have called it, where this foreign rights package is illegal. – You really know the criticism as well as I do because it has been repeated for years and the Constitutional Service itself pointed out it in the Committee at that time. One point only, which is also being examined and which is again to be classified as unconstitutional: The system of “humanitarian residence as the act of grace of the Minister” is contrary to the rule of law! – In Austria, every person has the right to apply for a building permit for his Schrebergartenhüttl, to obtain a notice, to be able to appeal against it and, if he or she wants to, to go to the highest court. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] That's what it's supposed to be. – Whoever wants to stay in Austria today, for whatever reason, has no right at all, and that is contrary to the European Convention on Human Rights! There is urgent need for repair in our foreign law! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For this very reason, we also need a better legal regime for a right to stay. It must be possible that someone who wants to legalize his stay in Austria because he or she may have been living here for ten or 15 years and has no legal residence permit due to a bureaucratic mistake, at least has the right to apply to the District Administration Authority, to see if the criteria fit, and then to get a notification! [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: He was previously illegal!]] – Nothing else is about a right to stay. And these fantasies of general regulations, which course around the ÖVP, can only be resisted: Either you want or you can't understand what the green proposal is actually. In any case, even President Korinek almost goes a step further when he speaks of general amnesty. Therefore: We quickly need a repair of a human rights-law package and the anchoring of a right to stay. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] By the way, this should actually be a concern of an ÖVP, which wants to attach itself to the flags to be a family party! What makes the current foreign law – which you are so proud of – is to tear families apart, to move families and to make family living difficult. That's exactly what the new Foreign Law law brings! And now I am not even talking about the Zogaj family, which you have torn apart and where, Mr Parnigoni, I do not see where your “great” solution, which you have decided today, will actually lead to a solution for this family. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: They were never together!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: We are still for the merger – in Kosovo!]] What about comments on a foreign law package, the highest authorities in this state – we are talking here about the President of the Constitutional Court! – referred to as illegal and unconstitutional? – And go She's not on the level of a Carinthian head of state who says that I'm squeezing what the VfGH says! I'd have expected more from you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What does an ÖVP say about this foreign rights package? – They say it is important and right, it is “a success story for Austria”. [[Abg. Kößl: It is a success story!]] – A Blamage for Austria is this foreign rights package! Austria has long been a human rights-compliant state. We are proud to commit ourselves to human rights – and you undermine this and hollow it out! And the SPÖ? What is the SPÖ's position on this foreign rights package? - Long time. Chancellor Gusenbauer still says in individual cases, that is, what happens under his rule as chancellor. – I expect more from a Federal Chancellor than to describe how his own policy looks. And then you think of “valuation” – the unword of the year 2007. If you still don't know where the shoe is pressing in the foreign right package, you're under-restrained in your job, I'd take it once. Finally admit: It was a mistake to agree, and it is high time to reform this foreign right.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5905	The next point is Mr Klubobmann Strache. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e5926	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have heard a lot today, and in recent weeks we have also experienced an interesting acting, where on the one hand, the Greens want to automatically grant a residence right to anyone who comes to us, whether illegal or not. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: fucking stupid!]] – You, of the Greens, seem to want to give any right to anyone who, in any way, is either illegal in Austria or who is staying here for a while. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: That's total nonsense, Mr. Strache!]] [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: This is a total nonsense!]] That's what you're talking about! And if it goes after you, it is likely that every asylum-seekers will also receive as a welcome gift a citizenship, and a social community apartment will probably also. That's your political interest! [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Complete nonsense! That's bullshit!]] – We perceive that, but we rightly criticize it. They also go from the greens and call where it suits you to laws, but there, where it does not fit you, they call for the breaking of the law, as Mrs Petrovic did. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Complete nonsense!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's exactly this double-beddedness that you live on this question as well. A few things to clarify, because you quoted President Korinek today. – There are many things that need to be said critically about the Constitutional Court President. Sometimes one has the impression that he intends to go to politics – and that would probably be better, because he often evaluates things like a politician and not like a constitutional guardian; one has to say this again critically. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But he also said – and I quote him – in the press hour: There is no right to immigration. - Quote. And Dr. Korinek is right: Austria is not a country of immigration, it is not God-given that 50 000 immigrants come to Austria each year. No, that is the political responsibility of red and black, which ultimately stand for this mass immigration. We want to lift and change this politically. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This is a difference, and this is a political decision to be made: Do you want to continue to have mass immigration and increased problems, or do you want the opposite? And we don't want any more mass immigration. I say, however, that you as a green person are at least honest, because you say at least what you want. On the other hand, we have the Austrian People's Party with its Minister of the Interior, who, although acting as if they were carrying out laws hard, but in reality, it is only lip confessions that make a precise assessment. Unfortunately, the Minister of the Interior has been blackmailed for weeks by a fifteen-year-old, and this is actually the case to this day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They say you can't tear a family. And I'll give you the right. If a family has tried to use asylum abuse with us when a family is trying to abuse the high and important asylum law, which is a human right – on the back of people who are actually persecuted – then one must also say to this family: You tried an abuse. Parents have responsibility for their children – and there is a family combination in their home country, namely Kosovo, to be guaranteed! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And that's what the Austrians expect. It is a double game that we unfortunately have to play at the ÖVP, where the Minister Platter verbally plays the hard man, but at the same time the head of state of Lower Austria, Pröll, the lady who has openly called for the breaking of the law and also admitted it, gives one of the highest orders for the merits of the country. Well, you can only wonder what a double-soil the ÖVP is living on this question: On the one hand, one should comply with laws, and one is rightfully indignant about it if someone does not, but on the other hand, an ÖVP head of state of this lady hangs around an order! Every objective observer can only wonder in view of that. This is classical ÖVP hypocrisy, which is lived here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There the greens are at least more honest. They play with open cards, even if their ideas are completely absurd and contradict the Austrian majority interests. We need a stronger asylum law. We need a better foreign law, a stronger foreign law, analogous to Switzerland, where we can stop abuse, where we can prevent identities from hiding, where one is against the NGOs industry, which is now doing business with the use of asylum, where Austrian taxpayers have to pay for years because of the fact that there are found lawyers doing business with the abuse of asylum. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] And not only tow straps do business: € 350 million alone costs the basic supply for asylum seekers per year for the Austrian taxpayer, without taking into account other costs, because in-depth lawyers whip through shinasylants and asylum abusers by all bodies, although they know there is no right to asylum. Asylum is always only a protection on time, and that is what it applies – and we want to ensure that as a Freedom Party in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6059	The next item is Mr Klubobmann Ing. Westenthaler. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6080	Madam President. Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! It's interesting, Minister of the Interior, when you talk about it and even say it to the truth that Austria is not comfortable for offenders, everything goes in the right direction, and the security spokesman of the ÖVP says here: Right must remain right. And the whole few minutes or hours after you have agreed to a comprehensive SPÖ “indemnity package” in today’s Council of Ministers – you have to imagine that! – a package that ensures that foreign criminals who have been sentenced for up to three years in prison can be set free after half of the punishment they have committed. You have agreed to this: a general extension of the conditional early release of à la Broda, where we have the highest crime! You voted in favour of this today, Minister of the Interior. I wonder how you want to explain this to the Austrian people and how you also want to explain it to your officials, your police officers, who are working well, who are hoping for criminals – and after a few months and years they meet the same people again in a criminal act! You of the ÖVP have today resigned as a security party with the decision of this detention relief package, you have approved of security in Austria! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Mr Van der Bellen said only with a single sentence, by the way, that we should not link the poor immigrants, foreigners and foreigners with crime in this country. – Mr Van der Bellen, I do not know: Do you go through open eyes through Austria and also through this city? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: I do, not you! You've got the scumbags! You see only criminals at every corner!]] Do you not know what has been happening here in Austria for weeks, where ethnic conflicts, political conflicts are carried out on the open road? Haven't read the headlines: ‘Türkenkrieg in Österreich’ or ‘Randale unter End’. Or in the “Kronen Zeitung”: “End of the Multicultural Dreams – Fighting Between Kurds and Turks”. And that's not an individual case, but it's already a fire! [[Abg. Riepl: There are also host shops!]] Mass strike with three serious injuries caused by knife stamps in favorites, fire attacks between Turkish clubs, raids on the accident hospital Meidling – a doctor is beaten because someone wants to practice clot –, six injured after beating at demo in Innsbruck last Sunday, baseball strikers, batons. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] And now it comes: There have also been violent conflicts with injured persons in Bregenz, Salzburg and St. Pölten during demonstrations. Minister for the Interior, the following: A large demonstration will take place on Saturday with Turkish representatives and also Kurdish representatives in Vienna. Cross the Internet, across the public, revenges are already in view here for the injured of beatings in favorites, Mr. Interior Minister. And do you know where this big demo should take place? – On one of the most frequented days, on the shopping day, on the Vienna Mariahilfer Straße, Mr. Interior Minister! We therefore call on you to exercise your right to prohibit this demonstration, not to allow the protection of the economic operators and the Austrian population, because it is here that the next escalation of violence, Minister of the Interior. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We demand that of you, and we still ask for something: It can't be that the same offenders – and they are the same again and again – will be conspicuous. Push They simply do away with these criminals who are beating here who do not comply with the laws here, just as the Carinthian state captain in Klagenfurt did last year! A Chechen band has invaded adults and children in a park – within 24 hours, the head of the Carinthian state has turned them away from the country! This is action and not speech, and this is what we demand from the Minister of the Interior, ladies and gentlemen. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] On Sunday a large demonstration in Linz is announced. 8,000 Turks want to demonstrate there, road battles are preprogrammed. On Saturday a demonstration will take place in Innsbruck. And now it will be exciting for you, Mr. Cap: Do you know who's calling for demonstration with Turks and Kurds? – Socialist youth in Tyrol, your head of socialist youth. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] And we will take a very close look at what is happening in Innsbruck on Saturday, whether there are violent conflicts there. Austria must not become the field of exercise of political and ethnic struggles by foreigners in this country, and therefore we ask you, Minister of the Interior, to intervene here and make use of your right to stop it. [[Abg. Oillinger: Be careful of the innhouses!]] Austria should decide for itself who can stay and who should go, Mr Van der Bellen. It must not remain here someone who is a criminal, who abuses asylum, who abuses social benefits, or who is not willing to integrate – that is a very simple formula – which we do not want here. You spoke a few weeks ago about a general amnesty you want. So all those who are violent here, including those who are condemned, wanted to leave you here in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Complete nonsense!]] Now, at one time, he's agreed to the General Amnesty on squats, at once there are some criteria that we have already introduced many weeks ago here in the House against which you voted! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] This is actually a model we want, and not an excuse for criminals and asylum abusers in this country. The craftsmanship has to be laid!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6195	Mrs Hagenhofer's next speech. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6216	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Westenthaler, Austria is a rule of law, and Austria is deciding, on the basis of the laws and not on the basis of assumptions that you are spreading across entire groups of society, just as you have just tried again to bring all people in Austria, so to speak, as criminal, as suspects of crime. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Prohibiting demonstrations!]] With this polemic, Mr Westenthaler, you can finally stop. Austria is a rule of law, and it continues to do so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (showing newspaper articles quoted by him) Have you read this?]] I have read everything, but there are no prejudices, Mr Westenthaler, in a rule of law! And in spite of all the concerns in recent times, one must not be forgotten: With the way in which asylum has been working since 2001, people's lives are completely put on the head, in order not to say, also broken. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Have you read that there are Turkish cramps? Is that what you want?]] [[Abg. Strache: This is a parallel society you want!]] [[Call: Need a doctor]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is a threat to the country!]] It is about those who lived here for years, who integrated themselves and could not be blamed. And the problem often lies not in the asylum law, but in the application and delay of the right of establishment, on which legal access to the labour market also depends. This right of establishment is characterised by special transparency, and it is therefore high time to create clear and comprehensible rules so that you finally stop gnawing fears. A major problem is certainly in the long period of proceedings, and here, Federal Minister, we have been waiting a long time, at least since 2001, for the establishment of this asylum court. We are all glad that he has been decided in the Council of Ministers today, and he should finally be able to start work. For if the people concerned have now fully integrated themselves in school, profession or even in society, it is often impossible for such persons to understand if their ability is endlessly long and if they are unable to understand the rules under which the procedures are created. Mr Minister, I urge once again – you have already promised, but it has not actually been implemented – to ensure that this setback is opened. And this can only be updated if the corresponding staff is immediately provided. And since I am also asking you to insist that this staff will be provided and at the same time, in parallel with the processing of unfinished cases, an evaluation can be carried out. Respect for human rights in the implementation of foreign rights must be ensured, and I share the opinion of Amnesty International that this area is the only area in Austria that is concerned about human rights. Also, respect for human rights is part of our rule of law, which in the discussion is repeatedly stressed as an argument for dubious deportations, while the foreign law is regarded by the independent Human Rights Advisory Council as illegal and thus not in conformity with constitutional law. It is to be welcomed that the list of criteria for obtaining a residence permit has been extended by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the Convention on Human Rights and should now also take into account family consequences of the deportation and integration of those concerned in Austria. Ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to create a regime that applies to all – and not only to those who have a loud voice and who create it as hard cases in the media. We have many families in Austria like the Zogajs, and all are waiting and hoping for a solution. A rule of law, ladies and gentlemen, is also characterised by not once and for all insisting on existing things, but by developing accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6336	The next item is Mrs Tamandel. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6357	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! With keywords such as “Puff”, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, will find no solutions, you will not be able to force any solutions, and it does not serve the matter yourself. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But, of course, the statements of blue and orange, which have been made here today, are not useful to the matter itself. [[Abg. Strache: The reality hurts, Mrs. Colleague!]] I'm not hurting what you're saying. Just about a month ago, we stood here at a special meeting, which the Greens also requested. Mrs Weinzinger, at the time a general right of residence was very well applied for. And we told you at the time – even here at the speaker's desk I told you at the time, as we did today – a general right to stay and cannot exist with us. There is a catalogue of criteria prepared by Mr Platter, the Federal Minister, with the federal states and where it is determined exactly who can receive a humanitarian stay. And it will also, we have heard today, from the middle of next year be possible to carry out procedures much, much faster with an asylum court. That's good and right. We stand by this right of foreigners, we have decided together with the SPÖ. I am also pleased that Mr Parnigoni has once again said here today that he is in favour and that his party is in favour. It must be said quite clearly that the Minister of the Interior spoke of a reduction in the use of asylum. Of course, there will also be fewer applications, because then many consider whether they are applying for asylum as economic refugees or whether they are not applying for immigration. Everyone is free to do so. And then Austria can decide whether this is granted. And the procedures we've been talking about today and talking about at the special meeting a month ago are those which, because of the old legal situation, still have a backpack on our Minister of the Interior. It must be borne in mind that it is precisely because of the foreign law in 2005, that of 1. January 2006 has entered into force, now that there are a lot faster procedures. That's clear, and that's what you have to say. And one thing is clear: If someone has received the negative decision, if someone knows after 12 months already that he has no right to asylum, that he has not had a reason for asylum, if he also calls on all the highest courts, makes appeals and goes through all the institutions, everything that is possible or what was possible due to the old legal situation, and the procedure itself is tossed – please, then one cannot now talk about the applicable foreign law and criticize this current foreign law! There cannot be a general right to stay, as has been said. The Constitutional Court has also said that it cannot be fixed at a certain time. There can be a person here for five years and he can be postponed, and it can be constitutional, and someone can be there for eleven years, and he can't stay here, but will also be postponed. That's right. And you have to check each case, and that is what we and also the Minister of the Interior, each procedure, each case. The Greens already have to confess – Professor Van der Bellen has said it very quietly today – that there must not be a right of residence for the guilty. You also have to stand because otherwise you would not be one of 183, which also have to represent the law. To call it a ‘dummy’ to find Mr Van der Bellen, and economic policy ‘bless’ when a family is postponed: If a father should be responsible for a family that has brought the family back through tow bands, who knew that he cannot remain, who has dragged away his procedures by organizations, then it is not worthy of you to call a deportation “dum”! He could have come as a immigrant. He shouldn't have come as an asylum seekers if he knew he had no reason! The following must also be said: If someone comes through tow, is illegal in the country, has no asylum grounds and therefore does not receive asylum if someone employs all the courts, all the courts, and suddenly after six years is to be rewarded with the right to stay – please, that will not happen! There will be no such thing with us, and thank God to our Minister for the Interior Platter!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6400	The next item is the debate on the third President, Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6423	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the National Council! I think it is a good tradition in Austria that sometimes institutions such as the President of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany or the President of the Constitutional Court speak on political issues and also express their opinion on them. And I think that this is also a good tradition in Austria to listen to that, to take it seriously, even if one does not express the same opinion. What I have heard today from the SPÖ, namely to describe the President of the Constitutional Court as incompetent and presumptuous, is something that has systematically defamed critics from the “best” black and blue time – under quotation marks. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP]] That's really something new. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. You're breaking laws! Your delegates break laws!]] The President of the Constitutional Court may have formulated a little complex legally. He said that a fundamental right was violated, that the EMRK was violated, that the rule of law was violated. But one thing he's certainly not: He's certainly not incompetent. This has really been a derailment that seeks the same. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: If he behaves in this way, he is!]] It is not, by the way, a new criticism. As a security spokesperson, they have certainly already dealt with the human rights issues of the Asylum Act, asylum law, and the right of foreigners. The Constitutional Court has already said this since 2003 that the situation, as it is, is not compatible with the human rights convention and that we also have problems with the Constitution in the Asylum Act. But, okay, that kind of goes by you – why, I don't know. [[Abg. Where did you get this?]] – Did you listen to President Dr. Korinek or not? [[Abg. Kößl: Yes, but he didn't say that in the way! That's a total misinterpretation of what you're doing!]] I'll try to explain it to you again. It is something profoundly human that people enter into relationships with each other, that they establish families, that they integrate into a community, that the children in school establish relationships, that they build a network of relationships. This relationship network is protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, namely the fundamental right to family life. That's something that makes human beings really that you come into contact with other people. This fundamental right is clearly violated by this process, as you have it in the right of asylum, namely that it is a yes or no decision, whether someone is allowed to stay here or not. It has to be a procedure, it has to be a right here – and not just a grace! That is what the President has tried to explain, but you obviously do not want to be drawn near, because I do not doubt that you are intelligent enough to understand that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So, now let's look at the last two years, because I think one is undisputed: Austria needs fair procedures and Austria needs quick procedures. Today, in the Council of Ministers, they have decided the “Asylgerichtshof” – under quotation, for it is actually only an asylum court – as an all-healing remedy that the procedures are getting faster and better. And you are still of the opinion that the 2005 Foreign Rights Package has made the procedures faster. The opposite is true: It has not become faster, nor has it become fairer. Let's take a look at the numbers together: In 2005 the backlog amounted to 33,829 cases, the retrofit now amounts to 34,634. [[Abg. Parnigoni: You have completely wrong numbers! You operate with completely wrong numbers! That's great what you're doing!]] That is, the backlog has grown bigger, new cases are added. Now you think that a new court is to deal with this setback within three years, i.e. 10 000 cases per year. – This is about as illusory as the assumption that the Austrian football team will make the way to the European finale. That is absolutely excluded! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] [[Intervocations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] That is absolutely excluded! The laughter is not appropriate. I think that's the only language you understand to illustrate it a little bit. So it won't work. The procedures will continue to take a long time. We will still have people here who are eight years old and who have spent the six, seven years of their lives here in Austria. And that is what is so sad about this whole discussion that you do not want to acknowledge that we have a responsibility as a community for these people – many young people and very many children – as a society, as an Austrian society, a responsibility for these children and young people who know nothing but this society. [[Abg. Strache: Don't forget parent responsibility!]] It is extremely unfair to accuse poor Arizona of being the one who did it in the media and is therefore treated differently. – This girl is still in the situation that she does not have her two younger siblings with her, that she does not have her father with her and that her family is torn apart. And that is really sad and unacceptable in this discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: She took herself away from the family! That's what you're trying to do.]] I would like to come back to one point again, because I believe that many are not aware of this: What does rule of law mean? [[Call to the ÖVP:Law must be observed!]] Rule of law means that the administration operates on the basis of the laws. However, that also means that there are supreme courts, there are courts that review this administrative link to the laws, in each individual case. And this right has every person. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] If you are now in the field of asylum to cut off this removal, this right that any administrative decision may be reviewed by a Supreme Court, cut off the rule of law. Thank you, I congratulate you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6604	The next speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6625	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Every time we discuss this issue, there is a real confusion in terms. You, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, make an active contribution to this. They describe migration flows and say that nothing can be changed. You already use terms in your term, which should so to speak indicate a natural event. And it's not exactly that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's not something that just happens and what we can't change, but: Whether a state is a country of immigration is determined not by the number of foreign citizens in its territory, but by whether a state actively promotes the willingness of others to seek its citizenship. A state is not becoming a country of immigration through facts, but through a political decision. You can't press around here and talk out. To be honest, you should not say that the migration flows will be even stronger. You should honestly say: We have made decisions that there is more immigration. In connection with the freedom of establishment and the prohibition of non-discrimination of foreign citizens, which forces us to grant each citizen the same social benefits as we give them to us, we have triggered a sog which will lead massively to social tourism and immigration to Austria from 2011 onwards. That's what we wanted, that's what we did. [[Abg. We're not!]] You should say honestly – especially the ÖVP, which takes the position as always: Wash me the fur and don't wet me, and drive a double-bedded strategy: one mark the hard man, the other, the economic wing, demand further immigration – since you, Mr. Interior Minister, will drive to Brussels in the morning and agree to the Schengen extension there: We will then immediately reduce border controls, we will create opportunities for increased illegal immigration! You should say that honestly. [[Abg. That's what SPÖ and ÖVP want! We're not!]] You should also say honestly that we are striving for something like a right to stay. – To say this quite clearly: What is this right to stay? It is the second residence permit behind the right of asylum, which gives the rejected asylum seekers an opportunity to stay in the country. Whoever is rejected can stay there if he succeeds in proving that, although he has no reason to escape, he is not well placed in his home country. If he can prove that, he will stay there as a subsidiary guardian. And we decide, almost every meeting, to adapt to the fact that eligible persons entitled to protection are equal. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] In the event that even this does not work – as in the case of the Kosovare, for in Kosovo, NATO stands, the UN, as it cannot be argued that it would be dangerous to ask someone back to his home country, not to move away, the expression is devastating: Someone returns to his home country because he is definitely not a refugee – in the event that even this does not work, we are now still creating the title of the humanitarian right to stay. [[Admissibility at the FPÖ]] Mr Federal Minister, with the guidelines you are already on the half way. This is not an argument, we need state-of-the-art security. The rule of law was given in the asylum proceedings, the rule of law was given in recognition or even non-recognition as subsidiary guardians, the rule of law is sufficiently fulfilled and exploited. What comes now is grace for right, if, despite all the conditions and concerns that the rule of law has already observed, there is no right to stay, but it is said that we do not want to allow it to be carried, although the right would require it. With these conditions, which you are now proposing and which are almost constructing a legal claim, you are already doing what the ÖVP always does: on the one hand, talking like this, acting on the other, and leading us into the situation in which we are now. That's your merit. You should also say honestly: We have the ideological goal of more immigration, because we are still striving for multicultural society. And you should say honestly, especially the economic wing, which made clear yesterday's press conference with Marek/Mitterlehner: We want 9.5 million people in Austria. How can we achieve this number? - That's how you really argued. – I guess that's only possible through immigration, and as a result we need immigration. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Let's say we don't want to, we think this is negligent! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The demonstrations that have taken place, with the violent conflicts between Kurds and Turks that you would have to ban, because according to § 6 of the Convention's Law, events that endanger public security are to be prohibited from you, show that already takes place, before which we have been warning for years: It is not about integration, but people are taking the conflicts from their home countries here and endangering the security of Austria. We liberals are firmly against it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6705	The next speaker to speak is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6727	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Federal Minister! High house! Appreciate spectators here on site and at home! First of all, I would like to say a few words to the Greens who may surprise the Greens because I have to give the colleague Weinzinger a right: Yes, asylum is a human right that has to be respected, but it is a human right linked to certain conditions. It is a right to time that can be given, but if one abuses it, it is to withdraw. This is quite clear once in this debate if we are already talking about a foreign right or a failed foreign law. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] At the same time, however, I would like to say that it was once again extremely courageous, in the negative sense, to get out of here and to criticise the rule of law in Austria or to say that it was not given. What the Greens are doing here in the last few weeks is really looking for the same thing, and we already have it on the 10th. The debate on the right of foreigners was held on October: If, at a public event before qualified public, the Deputy Party Head of Greens confesses to hide illegally stagnant persons in Austria, even calling for them to be hidden if the rule of law is and does not follow the consequences of the Greens, then I must be surprised. That's incredible and immense! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: This is your rule of law.]] Another miracle was for me the reason for the Greens to make a current hour on this issue today, because of the statements of President Korinek. A miracle, therefore, because he has in himself completely said the opposite of what you have always assumed in the past weeks and months, probably also years. There's no one else out there with you today: At once, it is perfectly clear to the Greens that a criminal foreigner, asylum seekers, should no longer be left in Austria. It was quite different a few weeks ago, even yesterday. In the broadcasts of you is always about a general right of residence, of a general amnesty, which would exactly include that everyone – whether illegally or legally in Austria – can stay here in Austria, whether criminal or not. This is absolutely unacceptable and has not been supported by the President of the Constitutional Court. On the contrary, he said that there was no general right to stay. He was for a single case test according to a criteria catalog. I remember: At the meeting on 10. On this issue it was the BZÖ which, as the only party, formulated a catalogue of criteria, in a resolution. All the others spoke, said what would not be done, commissions used and others – the BZÖ not only spoke, but acted and presented something, and it would have been up to you to carry such a catalogue of criteria, which is now largely confirmed by the Constitutional Court President in his wishes. Now on the topic of family Zogaj. It was said both by the colleague Weinzinger and by the colleague Glawischnig as well as by the SPÖ collector Hagenhofer that it is incredible and inhuman to tear this family apart. I ask you: What is against a family merger in Kosovo? If the Greens go out again and again, even at the last meeting here, and knowing the untruth here claim that it is uncertain in Kosovo... – Would you have taken the National Defence Committee to Kosovo two weeks ago! [[Calls to the Greens.]] – And then some journalists in Austria give you back cover too! That is not true, however, but it is no longer insecure in Kosovo. There is a need to break a lance for the Austrian federal army, for the KFOR troupe in Kosovo, because these soldiers are taking care of the security of the population in Kosovo, only to ensure the holding of the upcoming parliamentary elections and to assist the police in their activities. From a war situation, from a war country there is absolutely nothing to see in Kosovo. The children in Kosovo were those who left the biggest and the best impression with me. If you see with what joy and with what views they appear in the public, are there on the playgrounds, are present in the school, and with what ambition they learn there according to the statements of teachers, professors and also of the school director, then you can't really claim that it would be unreasonable for a youth who was present in Austria for a while but who has his home in Kosovo to return there. That means: Family union, yes, but in their home country, where they come from. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Madam President, a final point: So all you need to do is hold on to it: The BZÖ continues to stand for a case-by-case review according to certain criteria, but not for a general amnesty or for a general right to stay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6799	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[12:16:30]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e6823	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7137	The following template has also been received: 7th Additional Protocol to the Statute, General Rules of Procedure, Treaty and Agreements of the World Post Association (Bucharest 2004) (265 D.B.). After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, I propose, in accordance with Article 28a of the Rules of Procedure, to refrain from assigning this subject to a committee and to place it on one of the agendas of the next meetings. On the other hand, is there any objection? - That's not the case. That's why I'm doing the same thing. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7164	According to § 74a para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure prior to the entry into the agenda requested that the self-employed request 446/A(E) tabled at the same time be dealt with urgently by Mr Strache, fellow Members, concerning the fight against the progressive impoverishment of the Austrian population by means of a fair increase in pensions and a modern restructuring of the social state. Under the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 1172/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7186	Before entering the agenda, I shall also inform you that the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure is to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 1356/J by Mr Pirklhuber, colleagues on the proposed EU Directive on the labelling of GMOs in seeds by Mr Bundesminister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management. Since this meeting called for a urgent request to be dealt with, the brief debate will take place following this one. Derogation from the 24-hour time-limit
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7207	In order to be able to negotiate items 4, 5 and 7 of the agenda, it is in accordance with § 44 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure required to waive the 24-hour deadline for the submission of the Committee's reports. Points 4, 5 and 7 are: the report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (228 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Family Tax Compensation Act 1967 (316 d.b.), the report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (227 D.B._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of the Society “Familie und Beruf Management GmbH” (315 d.B.), the report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (202 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Federal Statistics (Federal Statistics Act 2000) (311 d.b.). I would ask the ladies and gentlemen to give their agreement to the withdrawal from the time-limit for these committee reports. – This is unanimously accepted. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7246	It is proposed that the debate on points 1 and 2 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. Let's go into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7271	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, a day-blocking period of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been envisaged, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 102 minutes, green and FPÖ per 77 minutes and BZÖ 63 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously accepted. [[12:20:07]] 1. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (241 d.e._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the University Law 2002 (276 d.b.) 2. Point Report of the Scientific Committee on the Government Template (79 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law which repeals the Federal Law establishing a fund to promote the establishment of a Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture at the University of Innsbruck (278 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7320	We now come to points 1 and 2 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. Mr Grünewald was the first to speak. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7347	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! In general, I believe not only I, but also the population, that when laws are changed, a certain step towards improvement becomes visible. In this case, a law is actually passed, supplemented by small, I say, marginal reliefs for students. When you look at what happened there, you see: The EU has recently granted Austria a period extension with regard to the quota and admission regime for students. Now you can say: This is in principle positive, which gives us the opportunity to take a breath. But I fear that these breath breaks will be so long that somewhere in the oxygen supply there will be difficulties in using breath breaks as thought breaks. I would like you to think about this: How can universities and students be met in the sense of the EU, which wants to define and define itself as the most knowledge-based space and calls itself the goal of a knowledge-based society? How does this fit in when the Austrian Federal Government rises to the brake and apparently only a part of the society sees it as knowing or as being able to acquire higher education? Then: All the data – and I'm going to mention it very briefly – indicate that the social selection by disadvantage of remote and low-income shifts in Austria not only provides an under-average Maturant rate, but also provides a low transition rate to universities. There's a hundred times the ÖVP can say: The OECD is not able to differentiate, not able to see that our commercial schools are actually already almost universities or actually colleges, that our educational academies were actually universities! And so on. All these are just numbers games that Austria does not advance in the ranking. That is, in Austrian higher education policy I lack a sustainable long-term strategy. But what you experience over and over again is cause-related cosmetic repairs and regulations, which are then partially tipped by the EU anyway, because they are simply so clear in their perceptibility and are called tricky that all the experts have made to say that the Austrian model will not last long. Mr Federal Minister, have you considered what young people are getting through with quota schemes and admission restrictions, whether the youth does not have the impression: You're afraid of us, we're a danger to the university, the universities are collapsing, the universities have to close the gates, they have to set access restrictions, even though we don't have such famous places in the educational ranking!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, please!]] That's what I'm asking myself: Where is there a sustainable education strategy? – In most OECD countries, the share of public education budgets has increased significantly in recent years. In Austria, it stagnates and is more than 2% below the EU average. The number of students increased by 41 percent in the OECD sector from 1995 to 2004, by 4 percent in Austria. Austria and France are the only OECD countries where the number of students has fallen since 1999 compared to 2005. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's not true!]] That's true, Mrs. Brinek! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No! I'll correct you then!]] Then write the next OECD book! But I don't know if it'll be sold so often. Excuse me many times now! But there's something you need to be able to hold on to. The Austrian rectors' conference also believes that Austria needed more students, significantly more students, and says that its efforts to manage a study site are an emergency response because the quality of training can not be guaranteed among these resources. Mr. Federal Minister, I ask myself: Does that have to be? In any case, I do not want a society of knowledge, which is only for privileged people, but rather for many more people. A large number of people should be able to come to higher education. It must be feasible. If Mrs. Hakl says about the ÖVP that, in other countries, nurses themselves are already burdened with higher education – she does not say, but: they should have higher education and other professional groups too – I wonder: Once again, why doesn't Austria go after that? Are you not worth the sick and old people so much that they say: They need the best possible training!Unknown term type: "%s".? No one's hindering us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But it's hard to find out: You have not only missed out on strategies, but you have also broken the promise to enter into the dialogue with those affected by the opposition as to how the restriction of authorisation should continue. I now come to the evaluation report of § 124 on the authorisation regulation. This evaluation report has never been discussed, and it should be the basis to respond. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Twice in committee!]] Yeah, but how? Remember how! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What do you mean, but how? Would you have delivered better contributions!]] Most of the subjects that have to contend with admission restrictions have a large proportion of women. Where admission restrictions have been made, the proportion of women has fallen from more than 50 percent to less than 50 percent. That's where you should think! Women cut off significantly worse in the EMS test of medicine than men, although statistically they have the much better matura notes than the men. Something's wrong! There's a question of thinking. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is not the case in Switzerland!]] If this report says that in 2002 there were three times as many students in first semester medicine as in 2006, one must say: That's a great number! But quite absurd is the following, which is also contained in this report, and that must be imagined: 16 students were interviewed – there is an evaluation report – and of the 16 students the minority were women. But they are the majority of students. It was the minority who did not pass an examination. But that's the majority. The approval tests do not exist for two thirds. Then there is a literal statement in this report: ‘The... Results are neither representative nor provide an insight into all the courses/universities covered by this study.” – That’s all! In the case of a sentence of this report, one must consider who commissioned it, with what intention, if it is reasonable: Unfortunately, profound statements are not possible because the order was missing. – I can quote it, I embossed it and underlined it three times. Mr Federal Minister, I would really expect you to enter into a dialogue rather than continue the policies of the last federal government, supplemented by marginal cosmetic corrections, but that you will give the youth and the university a new perspective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7468	Mrs. Dr. Brinek has now come to the fore. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7490	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! On behalf of Mr Grünewald: As a rule, statements do not only improve because they are repeated. It has already been explained many times how this is done with the 16 interview partners in the evaluation report. This is an illustration and part of the methodological work in this report, although any evaluation report can also be improved. We will be doing the same with other reports. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I don't need illustrated reports!]] I would like to make a correct point. You mentioned numbers here. – We can build on a good work of previous years in science and research policy, in university policy. They mentioned figures from the period 1994 to 2004. I call you figures from the recent period, from 2001 to 2006. During this time, the number of first-leaving students could be increased by 42 percent and those of graduates by 38 percent. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a good starting point, Mr Broukal and I have taken the opportunity to put forward a motion for a resolution - you can then join this one - in which we are also talking about how university and research policy should continue. We can build on negotiated budgets and performance agreements during the current legislative period. There is also additional funding for universities, amounting to € 525 million for the next three years, plus a general rehabilitation package of € 500 million. Mr Grünewald, if you still consider this to be negligible, I do not understand your notes. Dr. Grünewald, you also said that Austria was so badly involved in dealing with the admission of students. - You're wrong, too! You're not up to date. As far as Belgium and Austria, the countries of the European Higher Education Area have essentially gone on to regulate access to universities, to structure them in order to have planning security as well. And yet they have a high number of students. So there can't be access regulations. – Mr Commissioner, so much logic is becoming I'm sure you'll admit it to me. Mr. Dr. Grünewald, please explain publicly, also with regard to the academic rate! [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I didn't mention them at all!]] – This is the academic representation in the age distribution from 25 to 65. This distribution cannot change as quickly as possible. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: I didn't even mention it! Please listen!]] Or do you want to send academic degrees with the Christmas greeting card? – I want to admit so much seriousness to you! I say it again: We have taken this starting point to consider the further design of the university and university space, ideas as to how we can develop and develop it – in the sense of increasing the number of students, in the sense of improving the drop-out situation, in the sense of more efficient use of funds. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Mr Grünewald, join this. A nice formula: 2 per cent of GDP by 2020! Here we do not want to regulate anything centralistic, but rather to specify the benchmarks I have already mentioned. In the context – and I have already pointed out – is the extension of those access measures that allow universities, in particular the rector teams, to formulate admission conditions for six plus two subjects. This for good reasons: In a European comparison, Austria is in a very good position with 37 percent students from abroad with the beginners. So also a good base, a good starting position. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I want to do something right: I've come to the demand articulated in the last few days: A new medical union must be here!, smart, have led many professional discussions. In total, they are what Vizerektor Soswinski of the Medical University of Vienna said: Let's see that we're going to cut down the bottleneck at the turnus first! For this purpose, the health centres proposed by Minister Kdolsky are precisely correct in order to achieve compensation. If there is another need in the next few years, it will be planned and prepared by the Ministry of Science. In reality, we do not need to panic now and to organize this in the context of the extension of the §-124b regime. Rather, we must try to see that the promised use commitment of EU President Barroso, namely to ask for more figures, facts and empirical material from Austria for five years, is being considered and that the future report will be improved and that the medium- and long-term perspective of Austria will depend on. To the UG-Novelle: All in all, therefore, a measure based on good conditions of the previous legislative periods – with the aim of achieving a high objective of increasing the budgets for the tertiary education sector to 2% of GDP by 2020 from public and private resources. I'm asking for approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7580	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Brinek is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7649	The next item is the speech by Mr Graf. Requested time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e7670	Madam President. Dear Mr. “Quotenminister” Hahn! [[Abg. Morak: A jokeball!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That will be another compliment for him!]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to say the following: This was not my wishful speech, but the Group has given me this time. Mrs Brinek, the request of Mr Brinek and Mr Broukal, to ensure that expenditure is raised to 2% of GDP in the university sector, can only be accepted in a undivided manner. [[Abg. Broukal: Would you like less or more?]] [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, wonderful!]] There you will find a partner in us. I also think it is good and right if we hold this in this form. But it is not about this item on the agenda, but about the following: We are trying to be quite elegant here – Mrs Brinek has started this – on a central topic of a high school policy or even education policy, namely: Should there be a free access to higher education in Austria in the long term: yes or no?, dizzy over it. In the end, they have given little information on this issue. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I had to concentrate in the five minutes!]] [[Abg. Morak: To let you sit!]] Thank you, that's very good. – If you have no arguments, you don't have to say anything about that, that's completely right. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What's this about? – An evaluation report, provided for by law, is not worthy of this title, which is not worth becoming so-called, because, I believe, this report is the worst report ever sent by this House, and I believe that the approval of all the political groups concerned is the worst report ever. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Please, be careful!]] An evaluation where a sample of 16 surveys is carried out – Mr. Broukal, that is a fact that stands in there – is not worth the paper on which what is contained in it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not just!]] [[Abg. Broukal: Not exclusively!]] [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But I do not want to lose that much, but I am concerned with the central issue of “access limitation”. I would also like to say to the public here at the speaker's desk: There are three and a half political groups in this House who speak of a restriction of access and have already identified themselves with the principle. First: The ÖVP. – Formerly known: Always been an ÖVP request. There was no need for an ECJ judgment. Secondly, The SPÖ has now jumped on this moving train. Thirdly, Mr Grünewald, who has not spoken today, has always understood a quota in the past. The BZÖ is for that anyway. There is only one political group in this House, which is undivided for free access to higher education, and that is the Freedom Party. You have to hold that one down. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In this regard, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] We'll see how it goes then. To the specific figures. – I also note here, as in the Committee: There have always been advocates in this country – let us say: since 1945 – of restrictions of access, and they have now prevailed, starting with the gods in white; I come to speak even more closely. There are at least seven other fields of study in the Schlepptau. We have had 35 courses of study in Austria in recent years with individual access restrictions at various universities. Some were also withdrawn because not as many students were there, as was the case in Innsbruck. But the principle is norm. And once you cross this threshold, you can easily do more about the quota – as you do, Mr Broukal. You pour the child out with the bath by saying: We are overrun by students!, especially – we stay with human medicine and with veterinary medicine! – filed with a new argument for three years, namely the ECJ judgment. That's a fact: Numerus-claus-students fled to Austria. At one time I have nothing against it, but it is about me that we really want to enable Austrians to study. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Eben!]] The fact is: While in Austria at the Medical University of Vienna in 2003 we still had 1,316 students from Austria, in front of the ECJ judgment, we have 588 there today. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: How many have completed?]] [[Abg. That's a chuzpe!]] And while we still had 598 students from Austria in Graz in 2003, today, in 2006, we have 70 Austrians. [[Abg. That's inconceivable!]] While we still had 501 beginners in Innsbruck in 2003, we have 205 today. Who is prevented from studying by this quota, which was standardized? - Austrian! On average 1 800 Austrians per year, who can no longer study what they want, because the Matura is no longer the sole prerequisite for being able to study. That's fact! If in 2003 we still had 2,923 first-rate recipients at all medical universities, it has been 1,363 since 2006 and of these there are only three quarters of Austrians. That is to say, Austrians are essentially held off by the study, namely the study of the direction they want to choose! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] It also makes no use of it if you then agree coalitionally that you want to create 50 or perhaps 60 additional places every year. – When we apply this mathematical formula, we only reached the level of students from Austria in 27 years, which we had in 2002. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But not even...!]] – A programme with a duration of 27 years does not require you to submit to the students! In reality, this is a study program, which you stage here! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] Who sets that quota? Why just 1,360 or 1,370, why not 2,900? – All the men who decide today whether there is such a quota – rectors, vice-rectors, medical chamberers et cetera – have studied at a time when 3,000 students were at normal medical universities each year. [[Abg. Broukal: How many have finished?! And how many have completed their studies?- Oh, my God!]] – And are these poorly trained? Are we now afraid of those really poorly trained doctors who teach our students today? And then the Minister continues to say – and that was treacherous – that it is measured according to the needs of the future, and he also says that if in the foreseeable future the need is greater than we have assumed, then of course we will create places of study for Austrians and others. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Well, sure! Everything else would be...!]] - Then it's going to happen all of a sudden?- Oh, my God! Who determines the need? – Taxers had written this in the Constitution, and need tests have always been tipped by the Constitutional Court. A need assessment is used here for a regulation which is then carried out at the universities. The rectors and vice-presidents who have made such a limit of student numbers from 2003 onwards are those who misuse the autonomy given to them at the expense of the Austrians. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In reality, they misuse the autonomy given to them, and the legislator is called upon to suggest this drive. It must be that way! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: I think that's incredible! I find that to be an immense abuse!]] Of course, the abuse is if there have been 2 900 newly started students each year by 2002, and suddenly it is said that 1 350 are enough, and the need is measured by how many doctors we have. Will you measure in the future the need for how many lawyers the country needs? Will you measure in the future how many philosophers the country needs? Will you measure in the future the need for how many pharmaceuticals the country needs? - You'll do that. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What is the success rate?- Oh, my God!]] At some point the question will be asked how many Members of this country need to decide such a stupidity. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] – That is why we need a needs test! I think that's the only subject. Unfortunately, I do not have a speaking time, but we will still discuss this issue sufficiently often. If you do not want to have access restrictions in Austria, then you have to do so, and you have to make sufficient resources available, and then those people are not allowed to be played into their hands, who really only want to have a comfortable situation. The medicine's curriculum has been so hidden that nothing else goes out at the universities. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Morak.]] I personally do not believe that since the academic year 2003/2004, only more than 1,500 students can be taught less. This is an abuse of the given autonomy, and the legislator must stop.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8019	The motion for a resolution tabled by my colleague, Dr Graf, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8077	Mrs Oberhauser has now referred to an actual correction. I would like to draw attention to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: First, bring the corrective, then the corrected matter, and all that in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8102	Madam President. Mrs Brinek said that Mrs Kdolsky's medical centers should be there to eliminate the bottleneck in the turnus. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, not exclusively!]] Rather, it is true that the centres were intended as a combination of persons who are entitled to self-examination, and it is true that, after the protests of the medical board, the woman minister had these medical centers completely removed from the 15a agreement. [[Abg. Morak: Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8163	The next speaker is Mr Broukal. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8184	8 minutes he wants to talk, it sounds out of the SPÖ ranks. – I’m sorry, Kathi Pepper; the next time I get shorter. If you listen to my colleague Dr. Graf like that, you would not believe that he is the representative of a party who has decided to have access restrictions in this House – you have decided! Mr Graf, you must explain this change to me. – Yes, there would have been no such thing at your time, but your influence on the FPÖ was obviously ending up since you were no longer inside here. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, I thought so too!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: At my time, there would have been no such thing!]] I think you've been driving your unsons into Seibersdorf, haven't you? - Yes, exactly! [[Abg. New builder: But you have already fallen 40 times this year!]] [[Further calls.]] Look, Mr Graf, the question is not how many young people have accepted medical universities to study, but the question is how many young people have been able to complete medical studies each year. – I don’t have much to do with this, but even if you only talk to doctors occasionally, words like “bone-colloquium” – that seems to have been an examination, compared to the Russian roulette is a very safe matter. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There's always the bones broken!]] – As far as I remember, the professor had a large Sackerl in his hand, in which one of the 700 human bones was located, and one had to intervene blindly and say what that is. This is something that happens relatively often in the normal life of a surgeon: that you have to know blindly what the bones are called. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: And the professors today are those who demand the access restrictions!]] Hardly was that over, then – at least at the University of Vienna – an entrance exam, the summative integrative examination, was carried out in which 50 percent of the people fell through. – Come on Do not tell us how many people went to college, tell us how many students each year have been promoted to the “Doctor med.” – That was no more than today. [[Congratulation with SPÖ and detonative accompaniment of the abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Now to the access restrictions. The truth is as follows: At some point, we don't get around asking ourselves the question of where the money comes from. – Now I was long enough representative of an opposition party: With us it was always the Eurofighters with whom we paid everything, and those who were sitting up there – including representatives of your party; those FPOs who were still with us at the BZÖ – then always told us: You have ordered the Eurofighters seven times now; do you want to cancel them eight more times? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: In 2002 you got...!]] If you say, Double so many students at the medical universities!, then you know that this will require €500 million more for the operation of the universities. [[New calls from the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] You demand that a new General Hospital be built in Vienna for the patients needed at this twice-large university, you demand that there be new university clinics in Salzburg, that you build a new state hospital in Graz. – So you ask for good German amounts that are beyond good and evil, unless you can give me a hint of where you will get these €1.5 billion – now and as you say! [[Abg. May. Stadler:... election program! Gusenbauer has promised to abolish the tuition fees, Mr Broukal!]] Mr Brinek has put forward a request that we are all very happy about, in which ÖVP and SPÖ – and I am now deliberately saying “ÖVP” first because this was the greater overcoming for the ÖVP – we promise to increase the budgets of the Austrian universities by 50 percent by 2020 – from the current monetary value calculated by inflation – and you say: That's all too little and that's all too late!Unknown term type: "%s".? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: There we are all dead in 2050!]] I remind you of the following – you were long enough representatives of a government party yourself –: You know, printing money is forbidden! And it's a nice program when we say that we now want to increase the university budgets by €150 million year after year, starting from 2010, and then deliver €3 billion for the Austrian universities in 2020 instead of €5 billion. - I think that can be seen. Access restrictions: We from the SPÖ want access restrictions only where they are inevitable. We believe that at the moment they are inevitable in medicine, but we have doubts as to whether this applies to other objects. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Faith means nothing to know!]] – Faith does not mean knowing anything, it is; but I know that in negotiations with the EIA, I have ensured that there will no longer be a restriction on access from next year in two objects, unless – unless the law we are going to decide today – the conditions of study will not be met by the increased demand of foreign nationals. Mr. Graf, what do you want? – That people go to the lab at midnight? That there are large groups in which no one learns anything anymore? How can you represent that? What we have achieved was that the Minister can only limit the places of study if there is an increased demand for foreign nationals. And not as it has been in recent years when you decided by the FPÖ that there are access restrictions against domestic students. You said that yourself; you just read it: against domestic students, you just didn't say that were your access restrictions. But what will I do now? – I am not satisfied with this: I believe that we will have a problem in the medical sector for many years to come – there is the famous European solution to which I ask the Minister of Science to develop – but as far as the other items are concerned – journalism, business administration and psychology – I also believe that we do not need the restrictions on access. Today, Minister Hahn or his office will receive a very comprehensive request from me, where we want to know from him exactly what the additional university degree costs, what the additional business student costs, and what the additional psychology student, so that we can negotiate with ÖVP very seriously and eagerly for the 2009 budget, what universities need in addition to increase the number of students in these non-medical subjects. I'll just say, I would like to see the restrictions falling permanently. – The fact that he needs an emergency order is clear in the face of a ten-time-sized neighbor, of whom one does not know how many thousand students he sends to us each year. He sends it to us, whether we want it or not, based on the ECJ knowledge against which we unfortunately were powerless, as it shows – so he must have this emergency law. But that he uses it only in the extreme case, because it is inevitable, and not because it is more convenient for universities or because the ÖVP does not want to give enough money, we will take care of it. I also kindly invite you: Voices To this motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Brinek and me - this also applies to the Greens and the BZÖ! – Let us take seriously what we promise to each other here and today and Austria: that we will leave the Shartal in which the universities have found themselves with your help and approval in recent years and that, as this decade was the decade of research, we will make the next decade the decade of the universities. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... we agree!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8375	Now, Mr. Federal Minister, Dr. Hahn, is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8399	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, a clear statement: The ÖVP and also my ability have always said very clearly that free access to higher education is, at least, an objective and remains at the beginning of our studies and that we are trying to ensure it in the future. In doing so, we are trying to use various measures – I repeat, but I say it again here, so to speak, for example, for the protocol – to significantly improve the study information already in the higher schools, because I am convinced that, if there is a well-founded information and advice here, in fact, much more of the 400 studies we have at colleges and universities are used, and this also means that the selection of the studies takes place. - That's out of question. Secondly, I think Mr Brinek has already said it: Austria is, in addition to Belgium, the country in Europe, which up until now has the most liberal university access. I repeat here, too: Interestingly, social origin and access to higher education even have a certain correlation. So it's the other way around. Free access to higher education does not guarantee better social distribution; we have to ensure it differently. A third comment: The terms ‘limitation of authorisation’ and ‘quate’ are occasionally confused. – The quota is a very specific measure that we had to take at the medical universities in response to the situation related to Germany. On the occasion: Since 2001, the number of German students studying in Austria has increased from 6,000 to nearly 13,000, more than doubled. It was and is therefore necessary to impose restrictions here – this also applies to other subjects. We have discussed it in detail in the Committee, only once again: We are currently standing – and in principle this is gratifying because we want mobility; one has to distinguish only between the so-called desired student mobility and those which are the result of non-availability of study opportunities in one's own country – in about 37 percent of foreigners who start studying in Austria. I think you already have a feeling that we want to make sure here too – I am also quite sure with colleague Graf – that the Austrians should of course also have the opportunity – no no! – to study in Austria and, above all, to study what they want. Furthermore, on medicine – I think Mr Broukal has already pointed this out –: One should distinguish between the number of those who start to study and those who finish the study. In the old structure, more than 50 percent of this study has not ended, which, I believe, is not really a desirable state: if someone is studied for years and “tested out” – whatever. The new system with the input test has flaws, which is why we also have it examined, but – and this seems to be almost assured – the drop-out rate will be reduced to 10 to 15 percent. So, in total, the number of graduates measured in the past will hardly change anything, it will essentially remain the same. There is only the difference that those who begin to study also conclude to a high degree what, I think, is more pleasing for each individual and for each individual than the fact that you have just finished your studies. Generally speaking, We have never had an absolute free access to higher education in Austria, because there are subjects – for example, in performing art, in music, even in sports – where access has always been restricted; there has never been a discussion about this, nor does one understand it. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes, well, there's also a sense: I can't study violin if I can't play violin! No one has ever had anything against it!]] You will not start studying violin if you have not yet been able to play violin. – I thought that the consensus so far was generally valid, but at least this also applies to the future. In one point, Josef Broukal, I can't give you the right: I can't understand that we were in a bad valley in the past, so to speak. [[Abg. Riepl: But a little bit of a chaos it was already!]] – On the contrary: In principle, the previous government has already set the course for the current university budget to be increased by €500 million for the 2007 to 2009 period, which is operating by 10 percent more. And the same amount – even a few million more – is going to improve infrastructure. So we're on a good path. I thank you for the coalitionary request, which I hope will also be a help in the budget negotiations. The budget path, which is particularly close to the tertiary area, is indeed a welcome one when one considers the inner Austrian history of the last decades. And that is necessary because we are also in international competition here. It will be crucial that we become sufficiently attractive in the application of third-party funds, because the international comparison shows that we are very good at public sector contributions; we are still underdeveloped when third-party funds come from the economy and from other areas. If we are able to achieve a significant increase, for example by attracting tax law, I am confident that we can achieve the target of 2%. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8452	Mr Zinggl has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8473	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Graf is leaving the room right now. I wanted to correct him – Mr Broukal has already said it –: The FPÖ's tradition in connection with access restrictions is not very glorious. If she changes now, it's all the better. That you want to pull the greens into a boat in which we have never been sitting, I think is strange. On the contrary. I have a Déjà-vu experience. It's like "And daily the marmot greets." My colleague Grünewald does not tire of finding again and again new arguments that prove – he emphasizes this time and again – that we are very interested in maintaining this free access to higher education. And the high school elections are right. We represent the interests of the students maximum. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] The role of SPÖ in this context must already be highlighted. Mr Broukal, you have always been against the restrictions on access and have always said that 50 places more each year and we do not need that. – “I could say now that we are asking you to return to the status quo ante in the subjects outside of medicine. If there are a hundred students more necessary, then this is a tenth prom of the total budget.” – Yes. [[Abg. Broukal: We announced for 2010!]] You have announced an increase in the budget. “But we reject this novel because we want to give a clear signal that we are for free access to higher education”. – And this is a quote from Mr Niederwieser, Mr Broukal. Just as it was your quote before. Mr Kuntzl – now she is not present – said: "In this way young people are denied the opportunity to actually complete the training they want to do." That's the difference! You can increase the budget as much as you want if you don't use it to allow for free study access. And that's what we'll see, because the SP always only promises. Mrs Kuntzl pointed out very correctly in May of 2006 that in Graz 280 young people cannot study pedagogy, although that would only make up €26 000 more. So these are amounts – that's what you said at the time – where you have a free university entrance... – well. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] But now you have the application running. This restriction on access is also your request. And the question is another: Why, when it comes to medicine and if your argument to the EU is that our health system is at risk, do you want to maintain the restrictions in the business sector? [[Abg. Broukal: I don't want to keep it up!]] Well, what do you mean you don't want? They're making the bill. [[Abg. Broukal:... what we do in two years!]] - Yes, what you do in two years, in four years. You have also announced before the election that there will be no more tuition fees. And what you've announced! Nobody's interested in that. [[Abg. Broukal: If you had done three more mandates...!]] You now have a bill there – that's what interests us. That's more than odd. In any case, the business sector is not harmful to the health system, and the EU will also have an eye on it. – Whether we are doing something good is another important question. The other question is: What happened? Have you become perceptive? Did you see the ÖVP, Mr. Brinek, maybe a little bit convinced? Your speech has already sounded a little like that. Or are you still... Yes! [[Abg. Broukal: What you don't understand: We're just getting rid of...!]] I understand a lot. I also understand that you are in a coalition with the ÖVP and that you naturally have to turn away everything you can and budget with the money. I understand all of that. But what I don't understand is that you can't negotiate at least four directions of study in such coalition negotiations. With two you have to be satisfied, and... [[Abg. Broukal: Next time you'll help negotiate, Mr. Zinggl!]] This makes the SPÖ the small coalition partner. Yes, not even that one is the SPÖ. Not even the one! This is an extension of the policy of black and blue orange. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What's this licensing about? That's supposed to be an argumentation base!]] Mr Broukal, you abolished two. That would be the little coalition partner. He'll get two out. But they are actually government leaders. You should have at least four... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] And the two, the pharmaceuticals and biology, including the two, Mr Broukal, can bring the Minister back at any time by means of a regulation, if he wishes. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This ridiculous licensing doesn't help us! Ridiculous Licensing Policy!]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Broukal.]] Oh, yeah! I don't know, not at all. There is the addition “with increased foreign demand...” Do you know what may be increased foreign demand? – A single foreign student could be an increased demand. [[Abg. Broukal: No!]] - Of course! According to the law. [[Abg. Broukal: Is this an injunction to the Minister?]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Are you a PISA-empirist?]] No, no, I know your committee as well. But why is it not in the law? Why Needed You have a committee statement, why don't you write them into the law? There's something wrong with that. And I'd bet that pharmacy and biology will soon also receive study limitations. The evaluations you need to be able to extend the restrictions are also contrary to what the Minister can do now. Either we want to wait for evaluations, or the Minister can do what he wants. - It's not going out front and back. I'm sorry. You fell down on this point.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8668	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8690	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Fathers. ==References====External links== December, there would be no continuation of § 124b of the University Law 2002 which would in turn lead to the rectors at the Austrian universities no longer being able to order access restrictions before or after admission to the respective studies, especially as regards the eight German numerus-claus studies. For this reason, it is absolutely incomprehensible for me, just as it was not comprehensible in the Committee, why the Greens and the Blues, namely on the one hand, Mr Green Forest, on the other hand Mr Graf von der FPÖ, come here with arguments – again in the mixing of access procedures and quota, although this is quite different – that this quota should be anti-female. We have already discussed in the Committee that this quota cannot be anti-female in itself and also in the access procedure, this EMS test. As in Switzerland, this test is one in one and carried out, and in Switzerland it does not create any disadvantage for women. In Austria, it is currently not comprehensible, but part of a survey, why the women in Austria do not cut off in this test. But basically claiming that this test is anti-female, that is absolutely false. [[Congratulations with BZÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In addition to the colleague Graf von der FPÖ, who is constantly excited that the Austrians are to be disadvantaged by this test through these admission procedures, admission criteria. – That is not understandable either. For what if, for example, there were no such tests in combination with the existing quota at the University of Innsbruck? There there are German applicants to a percentage of about 60 percent who want to start medical studies. The only other European-law approach would be to meet these around 60 percent German candidates, to over 40 percent Austrian candidates and others with a routing procedure. to divide the existing places of study. In other words, there will again be 60 percent of the Germans in the existing places of study, which alone result from the present budget and from the unending number of places of study. That's what I'm asking: Where is there, on the one hand, the advantage for the Austrians, as demanded by the FPÖ? On the other hand: How is this to be done with funding? – We know that a study place in the OECD section costs approximately €9 500 in the year, but a medical study in the year around €30 000. And if 60 percent of Germans were going to study with us at some universities, then 80 to 90 percent would go back to their home country – how is it reasonable for our society to pay for it? It doesn't matter if someone has a connection to the university because his son or his daughter is studying there or not. Should we pay for training for the Germans, but in addition – this is the next argument and the most important for us – is the long-term care of doctors in Austria still secure? This means that, quite clearly, such study access restrictions or procedures have to continue here. And that in the sense of the Austrian students! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] If you say that such a study selection procedure could be to the detriment of the Austrians, if you really think so, then I can only agree in that way: Yes, but then you should address this issue already in secondary school. Then one should prepare the Austrian students for this selection criterion that they also cut off accordingly. This, in turn, will not work with today's agreement in the Council of Ministers – from the point of view of the general school... now... without seats, without service groups. That means, that's the wrong way again. A differentiated and performance-related model would have been desirable here! I would also like to make the following request in connection with a long-term secure medical care in Austria: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is mainly for one reason, since Austria has been divided into four supply regions since the health reform and only exists in three of these medical universities. Therefore, in our opinion – and this is a must for the future – such a medical university should also be established in the second largest supply region, Upper Austria and Salzburg. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8783	Mr Magistrate. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Darmann is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8842	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8864	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, They all know that we do not have free access to higher education; we have already heard this enough here today. A brief word to my previous speaker, who thought he could fix the medical shortage by building another university. – We just need more places to study, then we have no lack of doctors, and not another university that does nothing exactly if we continue to have access restrictions. [[Abg. May. Darmann: This is totally reluctant!]] But now to my colleague Mr Broukal, because I believe – and I was also convinced – that this has always been a serious concern to you, but I was more surprised today than you have said that it is “invariable” that we have access restrictions in medicine. After all, you have recommanded two other courses of study. Now let me tell you something, Mr Broukal: This does not benefit the young people who would like to study medicine in Austria at all, that you call it inevitable. If you are a young person in Austria today, someone standing in front of the Matura who wants to study medicine, you have a possibility in Austria: [[Abg. Broukal: Introduced the access restrictions the FPÖ!]] They're putting off this EMS test. For example, you can contact the Med-university Vienna in advance. That's where it's big. Preparation for the EMS test, how much that costs et cetera. And you have to prepare yourself – even inside it –, preparation is necessary. There are professional preparation courses. There parents have to pay between €700 and € 1,000 for such a professional course. The first ones fall out because the parents say they can't afford that. If you had the chance to enter and you didn't manage, many students will only be able to give up their dream and not study medicine, switch to a different course of study or do something completely different. If you have rich parents, this is different, then you can go to neighbouring countries, especially Hungary, the Czech Republic or Slovakia, and you can study medicine and also dentistry there, but – and of course this is only possible for very few – you have to pay € 5 500 in semester or € 11 000 in the year. And that's exactly the problem we're facing here. On the one hand, we make up a lot of students who come to us from abroad, but we assume that our own young people go abroad, so to speak, that social criteria are crucial, but that a certain social layer of course can freely choose what they are studying because it can afford to the parents. However, nothing remains for the social underclass. The little Bub at home, whose father may be a small worker, is a small employee, then has a lookout, has had bad luck. This is exactly the problem we are facing here, with which we do not want to identify ourselves at all and cannot, because we want free access to higher education for all. [[Abg. Broukal: You have introduced the access restrictions!]] That is why we have tabled this motion for a resolution today. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We have not decided. That's a mistake, even if you're going to repeat it a few more times. You know very well that we have not decided on this. And we are for free access to higher education, for all people, for all young people in this country – no matter what social origin they are. And to these €11 000, which parents have to catch up with each year, there is still a lot of additional costs. There's still living, life and so on. There are still quite a lot of costs that come with it. - That's one. The second is: It is always said that there are these quantities of applicants. Now I'm telling you something: In 2007, 2 555 applicants joined the test. Of course, much more have been logged in before. Then there was a personal conversation, a personal appointment: There have already been 1,000 words again, no, I don't even care, I don't want to go there at all. And that's exactly what it is: They juggle with any numbers that do not at all correspond to the truth. They juggle with anything, just to say we can't afford it. – What do you think, what is a seventeen-year-old who always hears, we cannot afford to have your training financed? Give What Are you with these people for a hope? I mean, it's not surprising that the ÖVP is acting like this and that's how it thinks. Well, the ÖVP banks are also very empty, they are obviously not really concerned about education and science in Austria. [[pointing to the ÖVP’s seat series]] But I am really horrified, Mr Broukal, that you are here, that you are still selling it as a success, what is happening here, and that you are not fighting more vehemently for the young people in Austria, who are simply allowed to choose what they want to do, which profession they want to learn. Because the way Austria is currently going... [[Abg. Broukal: You never have that... from the FPÖ!]] – You have also not managed to abolish the tuition fees, but you announce something here and carry it with you that it will be a social question in Austria if someone is allowed to study medicine. You carry this with you! [[Abg. Broukal: Because you don't want to go with me!]] Not the interest, not the talent, not the talent are decisive, only the social origin, only and only the fact that one has parents who can afford to finance one's studies, which one can then complete abroad in neighboring countries. And that's the wrong way! We want all our young people to be allowed to study here in Austria. Apart from that, this student-winding movement of the Austrians abroad is also an economic problem. The money paid by the Austrian parents here is carried abroad. We don't want to go this way. We want free university access for all Austrians in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e8993	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Karl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9014	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Grünewald referred at the beginning of his debate to the OECD ranking on the academic rate. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: The violation rate!]] - Oh, yes, you've addressed the academic rate. But I do not want to discuss the academic rate here, I would like to put a very different ranking into the discussion, namely the international rankings to which universities are repeatedly exposed. You can of course stand on such rankings and their methods as you want. They are sometimes very controversial, but it is interesting that they show few differences from the result. With almost all of these international rankings, US universities are at the forefront, best non-American universities are regularly British universities. These universities are in common that they do not have free access to higher education. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: And together that they have extremely high budgets!]] These universities, however, have much higher tuition fees, which are far above our tuition fees. They choose their students themselves. And as has already been mentioned many times today, it is generally in Europe that, except in Austria and Belgium, it is actually regulated in a comprehensive way in all EU countries of university access. Let us see, for example, that Finland, presented as the parade country, is always closer to us! There is a numerus clausus for all courses of study. In addition, admission to study in the autonomous area of the Finnish universities falls. In other words, in addition to the grades of the mature test certificate, the result of the admission tests carried out at the universities is also crucial. In concrete terms, this means, for example, that only about 15 percent of applicants are admitted to legal studies at the University of Helsinki. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:... no more than a third!]] - That's right. Yeah, total. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Do you want to do this in Austria?]] No, I'm not saying I want to. I would just like to point out: We are always talking about higher education in the EU, we are always talking about the academic rate in other countries. I think it is unthinkable that we will always pick out some aspects of higher education when we look into other EU countries. Let us also look at the restrictions on access in other EU countries! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: And the budgets!]] We are always held in the discussion on the whole school, too, because in Austria we are so backward, because in other EU countries there is the total school. Why can one look across the borders everywhere, and when it comes to higher education, every view over the borders is suddenly pomped? I don't see that! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] That is why I would like to point out what the restrictions on access in other countries look like. We're not supposed to negate that. I think you should take a closer look at that. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You may also have your own opinion!]] – Yes, and I am now telling you my opinion. I've had to listen to yours, too. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: “Must” is wrong!]] I would also like to comment on other speakers. I would like to confirm to Mr Darmann that the access rate in medical studies cannot at all be anti-female, for a very simple reason: This access rate is based on nationality. It is crucial whether I am an Austrian citizen, an EU citizen or a third-country national. Please, what does this have to do with the sex? This is neither an immediate discrimination against women nor a indirect one, and you, Mr Graf, should know that as a lawyer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to add one more point to my previous speaker Belakovich-Jenewein. You said students with rich parents can go abroad. In view of the restrictions on access abroad, they will not have a chance, if they have been invaded in Austria, but also abroad. Whenever it is said that aptitude tests and other restrictions on access result in no one being able to study from socially weak layers, I already ask: Does that mean that all those who come from socially weak layers do not have access tests or the aptitude tests in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker.]] That would suddenly mean that all from socially weak layers are much less intelligent or less suitable for a study. I think that this is an infidelity to all those who come from socially weak shifts and still create a study. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9172	Mr Broukal referred to an actual correction. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9197	Mr President. Member of the Commission. At my call, Belakovich-Jenewein, whether she did not know that the FPÖ had decided on the restrictions on access here in this House, literally said: We weren't there. – That's not true! True is rather: The following four FPÖ members, who called themselves FPÖ delegates, were present in the Joint Freedom Club, which after the BZÖ was founded, and agreed to the access restrictions: Bösch, Rosenkranz, Partik-Pablé and Neudeck.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9231	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9253	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Broukal! Mr Broukal, you know that neither Neudeck nor Partik-Pablé belong to our group, you know that very well. And I really have to give it to my predecessor, Mr Broukal, Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein was not yet in Parliament. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Please note, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, who are yelling down from the last bank, please note that, as a Freedom Party, we are apparently the only party next to the Greens for free university access. And that's the goal, and we want to implement this goal. No matter what was or was not in the past, it must be possible to formulate a goal behind which we stand as a party, as not a divided party. Those who have divided themselves have arranged themselves with the ÖVP. And that was the reason why they split up. But we ourselves are for this free access to higher education, and that is, please, not to squeak. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Look, I'm a teacher in the main profession, as you know, and it's really shocking, if you always explain to the students, look, makes a reasonable Matura, if you exist the Matura, you are qualified and then you can go to study. This is the only condition for entry that is necessary and necessary from our point of view, namely a completed Matura. So, and now you're going to the university with this matura and you're trying to start medical studies, for example. And since, you have to say quite honestly, the tests in the last two years have proved one, so one has really missed a lot, because the results of these tests have proved one thing: that our students were massively disadvantaged to the German students. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] There are many reasons for this. One reason, for example, is that the Abitur in Germany takes place much earlier and German maturants on the one hand are much better prepared for these tests and on the other hand have much more time to prepare themselves. ==References====External links== July. ==References== July is the date on which our maturants may have just returned from the Matura journey and brought the Maturastress and thus cannot prepare for the test enough, and I ask myself the question anyway: Yeah, say, where are we? Is it necessary for me to qualify in addition to the Matura today so that I can stand a test? That's perverse, please. Usually, the matura would have to be sufficient to allow me to pass this recording test. That was not the case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] It's really significant. It was significant that during this reception test in Innsbruck our female maturants cut off much worse than the male maturants. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's a fact once. It was even suggested to bring out a study that I do not yet know. Look, any restriction on access to this test is a farce. I've tried to tell myself how such a test goes. There's a question of technical things, please. For example, I was told by people who participated: There was a spiral showing where strings hang on it, and then they were shown photos, and then they had to define whether this spiral was photographed from the front, from the back, from the bottom, or from the top. [[Abg. Morak: They didn't know that?]] Well, we're not going to prepare our people for that! It can't be. It can't be the basic condition for a medical study, as I can judge such a picture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] For example, Mr Broukal, whether I am willing to work in this social profession should be a prerequisite for a medical study. Professor Stefan Laske once suggested that one might make a half-yearly test internship, in which everyone could be stopped, to serve before in old-age homes, in the care, for example, in order to see whether he is personally suitable for this profession. Please, I don't need any money. I'd be excited to see how many German maturants would come to Austria to take care of them in an old home for half a year, and then I'll look at that, please. So that would be much more correct at least once. And then, at least in part, one would have reached that the access restrictions for our students would be relativized by far once. Mr. Hahn, since the red light here at the speaker's desk has been shining for a long time, only the following: Now this so-called reform treaty is to be ratified. Why don't you at least get on with it? Why don't you wait on the table and see that our maturants finally get places for study in Austria, and don't go in front of Brussels permanently! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9330	Next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Oberhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9352	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Studying medicine was an adventure already in the 1980s. At the time, however, the adventure did not consist of having to sit down with 6,500 people in any exhibition halls and complete tests, but it was in Vienna at least so that with 1,800 students, one had to beat around the seats in the lectures. It looked like you were standing at 6 o'clock in the morning alternately in principle at the door with a thermosane coffee and tried to find a place on a chair and not a place on the stairs. The public opinion of students at the time was that they do nothing at all, sit around in principle, drink coffee and at the expense of the generality let the Lord God be more or less a good man. Due to the other political situation at the time – the political environment was different – it was so that Maturants from Germany were in the absolute minority, because they could only study in Austria or apply for a study place if they were able to prove that they also had a study place in Germany. Times are no longer like that. It was also at the beginning of the study, without entrance tests and without waiting periods, more than 50 percent of women who started medical studies, and more than 50 percent of women who then completed medical studies. And the workplace situation in the eighties was such that when you've finished studying, you'll be able to work on it, you won't find work anyway, because it's just a job that you're doing to get on with something, because there's more than enough doctors. Even so, in 1981, in Vienna, about 1,800 of these adventures dared to study medicine – and there were over 900 who completed this study at the time. As has already been said: The medicine, at least at the beginning of the career, at the end of the studies, was and has been female. - So much for it. Today, as has been said, 6 500 Maturants from all over the country are joining us and want to have a study place. At least there are enough seats for the exams because Messe Wien has found a very good place for this. The test procedure, we have heard many times today, disadvantaged women. I am just glad that there was still some sort of opinion that it might be in the school system that women are disadvantaged. First of all, I believed that Mr Darmann wanted to say that is because the women or the girls in Austria are somehow stupid anyway. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Mrs Colleague, please take this back! I didn't say that!]] But I would rather wait for the study of game, which is somehow commissioned, because I hope that we will come to good numbers and learn what it is all about. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Take this back, Mrs. Colleague!]] I just said you could have heard that. That's all I said. And I've said I'm looking forward to the study commissioned to show what's basically the reason for women cutting off worse in the EMS test than men. [[New call for tender of the Abg. May. Darmann.]] But it's true, if this exam is done, then it's not that you can study for a long time. We all know that we have a good rest of people who did the test last year, but whose grades were not good enough to meet one of the coveted places of study. That means they keep waiting, and there's the first bottleneck. I am very glad that Minister Hahn, in principle, has at least once given the universities the idea that once a year you could reduce the number of entry places to study in order to work up the bottleneck a little. In other words, it used to be the existing Matura who has a right to study. Today, it is not even an passed entrance exam that allows you to study. Now it is no longer said that the students are sitting around at the expense of the general public, but now they are sitting around at their own expense, not because they do not want to study, but because they cannot study, and are trying to somehow finish their studies year after year. It has changed a lot compared to the 1980s. It used to be the doctor's room, which has always said that we have enough doctors anyway and limit the number of places to study, because it's enough. I have now made the effort and once surfed around on the doctor's chamber homepage and have once looked at what job vacancies there are. There are job vacancies from Sweden, France, Germany and very, very many jobs also in Austria, which can no longer be occupied. Mr Minister, we really hope that you have already given some thought to how you will, in principle, deal with the fact that we may now be entering into a medical shortage seeing eyes. Demographic development shows that it is expected that around 1,600 doctors will retire per year, while the figures we now have show that a maximum of 800 graduates will be expected. We have the universities that say no more students without money. We know from the Court of Auditors that there are no calculations at all at all at universities, which costs such a place of study. That is, we strongly hope that you have already commissioned the university to produce cost transparency. Minister Hahn, we really put great hopes in your thinking, because otherwise it says for the patients “please wait!” – and not only for the medical students anymore.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9408	Mr Magistrate has the power to make an actual correction. Darmann in word. I would like to draw your attention to the provisions of § 58 of the Rules of Procedure. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9432	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Colleagues Dr. Sabine Oberhauserhat has just claimed in a somewhat strange choice of words, one could have heard that Mr Darmann would think that the Austrians or the female Austrian students were stupid because they cut off worse in this EMS test than the relationship abroad. In fact, I am correct that this is an impeccable and cheap assumption, since that has never been said by my side, and this formulation is not acceptable for your part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9480	Mr Darmann, I would ask you to comply with the provisions of § 58 GOG in the future. Mrs Magist. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his excellent report. Trunk. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9504	Mr President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Darmann from Carinthia, I too have listened carefully to you, and there will be a protocol. If what we have heard is true, including colleague Sabine Oberhauser, then this is a legitimate conclusion from your statement and not an injunction. [[Abg. May. Darmann: What you want to hear is a difference!]] [[Abg. May. Darmann: Always the way you think!]] You can prove the opposite in your daily policy. With her long look back to the past, colleague Sabine Oberhauser clearly explained the concrete effects of climate change and also political paradigm change in the university and scientific field. In view of this debate, let me take a very brief look back at the time of the last Federal Government on a small example. Minister Hahn! With your permission, you have criticized my colleague Broukal's statement on Shartal. I'm trying to present it differently. They have – and we also build on this new government – clearly stated that the objective of the ÖVP is free access to higher education. Minister Hahn! This is a climate change and also cultural change in the scientific and university policies of the ÖVP. Mr Beatrix Karl's statements today – which are acceptable and acceptable, but not acceptable – have also been presented in the ÖVP in the light of the statement made by the Minister in this field of tension. She spoke precisely in the spirit of the predecessor of the minister, where more thought and imagination was developed not for open and free access to higher education and school, but more know-how was invested in the establishment of barriers, in the creation of selection mechanisms, also in the creation of arbitrary selections. So I think – and so much also to Mr Zinggl – thanks to the great commitment and effortful persistence and competence of the former opposition party SPÖ, I say, even the current opposition parties, it is possible to bring about a change of consciousness even to the current government partner. The path is laborious, but it is clear that there is also a change of course in the scientific field. The course has changed. However, the way to free access to higher education is admittedly a stoner and longer. Let me also say in the last seconds as a lobbyist for Carinthia: This still young Alps Adria University has excellent potential for the future, including concepts for the future. Minister! And let's think about how to develop from this Alps Adria University in the field of tension of three cultures, three countries in the heart of Europe also something future-worthy. I am glad that it is consensus among all the parties today, including the FPÖ, which at the time was in the process of being able to say, university policy, science policy no longer means managing a lack. And that's good.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9558	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are coming to the votes. We shall first proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we reach the vote on the draft federal law amending the University Law in 2002, including the title and receipt in 276 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brinek, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on the competitiveness and safeguarding of the Austrian university area. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 40.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the abolition of student access restrictions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Haubner, colleagues and colleagues on the establishment of a Medical University in Linz. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. Rejected. We come to the vote on the draft federal law which repeals the Federal Law establishing a fund to promote the establishment of a Faculty of Civil Engineering and Architecture at the University of Innsbruck, including the title and receipt in 79 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[13:40:53]] 3rd. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 408/A by Dr Gertrude Brinek, Josef Broukal, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the University of Applied Sciences Act (277 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9688	We'll get to 3. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First speaker is Mr. Dr. Graf. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9718	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! The matter, which is now under negotiation, was originally divided or had a very different content than is now being debated. Originally, these were the secondary activities at the vocational colleges to be regulated, in particular the representative scheme. We are here – that was the original request – because we also believe, as a result of past experience and knowledge, that appropriate legalisation is necessary in this area. An amendment has been tabled to the Committee itself but, contrary to all the agreements among the political groups in the short term, that is to say, the agreed minimum period before which it is to go to the political groups has not been complied with. However, it has not been an insignificant amendment, but it has been the introduction of compulsory or compulsory membership in the student representation of Austrian high school at the colleges. We will therefore, because we do not see this issue in this way and because we are in principle opposed to the introduction of chambers, chambers of force, compulsory memberships in this area, but also in all other areas – freedom of movement is precisely to hold a Party, Chamber, Propor and Stand State – not to carry this part and have made a request for separate vote in this respect. A few points have been made for the introduction of the Austrian University of Applied Sciences. The Austrian high school is a student representation that is not considered positive by us in its present composition, because it deals mainly with the general political mandate and has fewer student interests in the classical sense. This is an eternal criticism that we practice and that we do not abduct. The technical colleges are an Austrian success path, which has been taken, where no such legal representations have been established, with compulsory membership, with compulsory contributions for funding, but it has been a voluntary representation. It's been since The colleges always have two wings given to the students: one wanted to organize a voluntary student representation at the colleges – slim, unbureaucratic, oriented to the interests of the students and so on – and the other always wanted to have a legally established board, equipped with compulsory membership and also forced contributions. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] This wing has now won. I remember that there was a broad front in the ÖVP until last year against such an institution. [[Abg. Grill: There you dreamed!]] And so absolutely for the chamber state not all are within the ÖVP, so we can still represent it. Now I'm asking: What will it be like in the future? Will the colleges go a way, namely in terms of student representation, how the Austrian universities have gone with the Austrian high school, or not? – It is assumed that this will be the case. And that is why we need to know what has become of the Austrian high schooling in recent years, among other things. The Austrian University School – funded by compulsory contributions and public funds – deals with whole, entirely "student" matters, such as the establishment of a HomoBiTrans Action Week – I reject something like this – where publicly funded workshops are held: ‘coffee drinks and plauds under the motto ‘coffee and whip’’ or ‘sex and bread’. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: What have you always done for games?- Oh, my God!]] Furthermore, “anarchist work education” is offered by the Austrian University of Applied Sciences there – all this then goes to the colleges, I tell you, you decide today! – where “bestial crafts, radical sewing and other cultural techniques” are taught. - So I'm not for that. Or: A workshop – to be read on the homepages of all Austrian universities – is offered by the ÖH and representatives of the ÖH – “more sex, fewer children”. Or: It is used for big demos against the government – now it is no longer against a government in which the FPÖ is represented, but it says: “The SPÖVP coalition seamlessly continues the anti-foreign policy of the black and blue-orange government: the ruling major parties do not take a clear position against racism but design relevant, discriminatory laws.” – And therefore call for a demo against the government. Next to the GRAS, the Austrian University School, the KPÖ and the VSStÖ, the Döblinger Kojoten and many more – you can read everything here. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] Now you just have to know what will be done with the students' compulsory contributions, in future also with the students' contributions to the colleges! They clearly declare themselves – are you there for that? – they say what they stand for. “For all lesbians, gays, transgenders” – who are invited to the de-mo – “all those who don’t want to learn German,... all who don’t want to work and still need money”. – All these are supposed to demonstrate against the government with the forced contributions that are collected through the Austrian high school. They also say: “No to the criminalization of refugees!”, for example, by tugs. “Fighting heterosexualism!” is also a point. It also says: “purity against nature”, “compared to heteronormatism”, “compared to hemat in the heart”, “as opposed to sex only to two in bed and hetero” and the like, “for productive failure, for piracy”, “for sex parties, for perverting everyday life”, “for combat lesbians” and the like. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner.]] – This is the Austrian high school that is financed there. There you have to ask: Is that what we want? Do we want this forced happiness to be granted to poor university students? - There will be all of this! We'll talk about this in one or two years. So far, a success path has been pursued with the technical colleges, where party-political agitation has been held, where one has seen that one is studying as quickly and efficiently as possible, and where there are no professional politicians who essentially serve on chamber functions in order to enter the party policy, and so on. - We reject it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] These are the reasons why we reject the Austrian high school in this form. At the universities, the representatives of the Austrian Student School organise a hetzhund, which is directed against students by using pictures, filed at all universities, color students, who in the case are more likely to be attributed to our camp – but it is also CV-er on it, I would like to tell you – to make the call: [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] “If you are one of these faces” – they are photographing all these people – “discover in your seminar, make everyone aware of it and try to remove the people from the audience and the university together!” – Call for violence. Some may not study because they do not have the right attitude. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] The Austrian University of Applied Sciences is involved in this, and this – in the future perhaps also at the technical colleges. Minister, here too you have legal oversight. Look at these circumstances, what happens to students' money and what criminal calls are made there. We don't want to carry this, we want to keep the colleges clean. If you don't want to, that's your way. We note that you are introducing two-thirds of the majority, because otherwise it is not possible to introduce it. They will probably also raise the Austrian high school, which organises such workshops, with compulsory membership contributions or forced contributions still to the rank of the Constitution. - No, thank you. Now I know why the liberals are against such a chamber and proportion state you simply have to appear! Thank you. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Before, you did not know what you were for!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9824	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9845	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! This novel to the University of Applied Sciences Law now regulates who is to be regarded as a primary professional or who is to be regarded as a secondary teacher and research staff. At the same time, it is also made clear that secondary teaching staff are not subject to the right of guidance and are not included in the organisation, even if it belongs to the University of Applied Sciences College. This is marked by the fact that it works exclusively in teaching, does not teach more than six semesters per week, and is shown to follow another fully social insurance activity. However, due to the discussion within the Committee, I assume that these defined criteria play a role in the conclusion of the contract, but cannot lead to the dissolution of the Treaty if the changes in the full social security obligation are short-term. It is precisely these secondary-vocational persons that guarantee practical training, which determines the character of the vocational colleges. A good opportunity for practitioners to be involved in teaching is essential, and it is also becoming increasingly interplay between the universities and the companies in their surroundings – a symbiosis from which both sides benefit, which is quite clearly felt in Graz. Unfortunately, what critical reactions it is considering when politics is thinking of subtracting technical studies from a location, we have also recently experienced in Graz, too. From the point of view of the Works Council – I am an interest representative myself – it is positive to note that the information law of the Works Council now includes the persons working by-work, and this is clear, and all human measures are concerned. As a legal representative, I also welcome the introduction of the student representation at the University of Applied Sciences. It is thus in line with the demand of the students at technical colleges or colleges to have their own legal representation and to be involved in the ÖH. The organisation of the representation is also coordinated with the size and structure of the technical universities or their recipients. I would like to say to Mr Graf that in the end the choice determines who is a student representative. And if the workshops do not like, these representatives will be elected again. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In the future, there will be representative bodies for the University of Applied Sciences, the Office for Studies and the College of Applied Sciences, and in the Statutes to be adopted by the University of Applied Sciences Office, further representation bodies may also be installed. In any event, members of the University of Applied Sciences' Office are all chairmen of the College of Applied Sciences; there are fewer than five degree programmes, including all chairpersons of the College's Offices. With this presentation, Federal Minister Gio Hahn not only expands the rights of representation, but thus secures the success history of the universities for the future. And I think Austria thanks for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9906	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9928	Mr President. Estimated Minister of State! High house! The BZÖ also sees some other parties here in the hall need a regulation in the definition of part-time employment in the University of Applied Sciences Law, but cannot give its consent to this formulation. This is because the intended formulation itself of a legal person – I think, as a lawyer, I can also half-judgment this – not only appears ambiguous, but also because it was absolutely misunderstandingd. While I and all of us have been told in the Committee that labour law experts have drawn up these definitions, the fact is that reading through several times would really allow other interpretations of this definition. For this reason, the BZÖ cannot agree to this definition of part-time employment at a vocational college. We cannot agree to the second point, the forced happiness of the model of the technical universities with a student representation in the form of the Austrian high school – which I have already made clear in the committee – that so far. While we believe that a student representation must be, at every university, also at a university, a university, we have also just heard from our colleague Graf, which escapades are listed by this student representative, the Austrian university. It is really a scandal, which is listed here with forced contributions from the students. [[BZÖ and FPÖ are welcome.]] It is this forced happiness. There must be a study representative there, and there is no question that student representatives at a university say: Yes, here with the ÖH, we want to be integrated! because there's a lot of money behind it. And with this money, of course, they can perform a lot. But the fact is that this is the wrong way. The high school elections show it again and again: not only the interest in elections, but also the distance to the ÖH representatives, the students are more and more distanced from them. For this reason, the BZÖ is going its own way in terms of student representatives at universities and colleges. The BZÖ sees the future of a functioning student representation in a study mentor, in the concept of a specialized study mentor according to the respective course of study, to be chosen from the circle of the habilitated teachers and thus to be a contact person from the professorship. This would be a way that does not cause a waste of money, but also entails a direct representation of the interests of students in the professorship. We will continue to pursue this concept in the future, so there can be no agreement of the BZÖ on these two requests.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9976	Next, Mr Ddr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e9997	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! It has already been mentioned by the Count of Parliament: The colleges are a success story! In 1994/95 693 students were started, and in the last year of study there were 28 426, tending to rise – we intend to continue to meet the need – and we see that we are talking about an important university model that offers an excellent education to many students and many young people. The technical colleges will also benefit from the extension of the budget, from the corresponding resolution on the previous item on the agenda, because of course this 2%, which is the subject of this request, applies to the entire university area. They also benefit from the extension of the research quota, because it is also a wish that we should be more integrated into the research field by specialist universities. For the sake of historical truth, I must say to the Federal Minister: Of course, it is a question of definition whether the misery was or what it is called – of course, it will be exaggerated – but between 1995 and 2004, the proportion of education and science, as measured by gross domestic product, fell from 6 percent to 5.5 percent. The difference is more than € 1 billion. This is, of course, something that was clearly noticeable and that has brought significant declines in quality from schools to universities. That is what we have repeatedly pointed out. In this new constellation, there is now finally a rethinking in the focus, and we are very glad that we succeeded. We have two points today, which has already been mentioned. One of them concerns the secondary teachers. Mr Riepl will deal with this subject in detail. The second point concerns high schooling. Col. Graf, I'm surprised how much effort you've made to research the Internet. Nevertheless, you have mentioned only a tiny part of the work of high school. Because what does the high school do? The high school is concerned with the various tasks of the students. This is about first semester advice, advice when there are problems with examination dates, more in the statutes and the like. In addition, there are representatives of the high school in the Senate. This is actually the main work of the Austrian high school. I don't care much about what she's doing beyond that. I say quite openly: Even if it protests against its own government, I prefer a high schooling – and young people of this age – than if it were totally unpolitical. A non-political youth would worry me much more than one who deals with important future issues. I would also like to thank the association of university students in this context. He has been very committed to ensuring that this anchorage is possible. This has been the SPÖ's concern since we got these colleges. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The ÖVP too!]] – Originally also the ÖVP, I give you that right. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: As a working group with the leading government partner!]] We only left time at the beginning, because it was really under construction, and when it was so far, you were in a coalition with the FPÖ, and it didn't want it anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's what we wanted!]] – That’s simply the fact that FPÖ didn’t want it anymore, and then it wasn’t so important to you either. Here, too, one can see what SPÖ's government's participation in the student representation means – and we are glad about it. When Mr. Philipp Hense, who has carried this very much, writes to us – or to me: Thank you very much, you cannot imagine how much we welcomed this request!, then I can give it back. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: He wrote that to me too!]] He has a very important part to play in the success of this. I wish you a high school at the colleges, we wish you a good luck.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10074	Next, Mr. Dr. I'm talking about spruce builders. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10095	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Of course you can wish for luck, but some wish for happiness, go to the casino – and play the whole money. Luck is a Vogerl, Mr Colleague, and you can perform ornithology from different perspectives. From our perspective, it is an ornithological program to observe a kind of vulture in the current agitprop situation operated by ÖH. Da_te Buses from public funds – such as these – are paid to bring people to politically misguided events to begin beatings there. Then the police have a reason to intervene, and so on and so on. This can only cause strange minds to laugh, as Mr. Martin Graf has already reported. – I think there's more reason to startle. Of course, you can also close your eyes and wade into swamps with your eyes tied up, but I believe so far that this is not the standard of Austrian legal and political culture. The immediate cause of my wish to speak on this point today – apart from the fact that I myself was a RFS-functionary, who knew high school and could not tell stories from the eighties, but from the 1960s – is that we are introducing an element of forced happiness, that is, compulsory membership of the high school students in high school. This leads me to believe that we are now living in an adequate relationship with the weather, as it is now sad days for the Republic of Austria. As can be heard, a government proposal will be adopted in today's Council of Ministers as the subject of the constitutional change. If the horror is perfect, the system of compulsory membership, which characterizes the chambers, should also be introduced into the Constitution by the inclusion of noble and good chambers. Noble and good chambers are, of course, those who bear the social partners. Then there are yawny chambers – these are the freelances who, of course, do not happen in this approach at all. To this end, some of these blessed mouths have now also voted in favour of the High Song of the right to vote, so that we have a continuity: a system of compulsory membership – I repeat that from a liberal point of view mandatory membership is a priority – and secondly: Mandatory memberships in chambers enjoying the higher consecration of the Republic because they represent the so-called social partnership. In this way there is a possible entry into the Constitution. To this end, we are still stamping the system of majority voting on the children of the Republic's innocence, so that we can take away the unloved opposition parties as far as possible. Then we have a certain interaction, probably between red and black. Blue and green, then we don't need BZÖ anymore, that's bothering. Then there may be one or two, and we look forward to a much more rosy future. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a politician who, after having been elected as Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, had already been aware of the fact that there was a large state of opposition in relation to party opposition, by introducing the just electoral system. That was Dr. Bruno Kreisky. He has introduced the proportional right to vote, and thus the Republic has lived well since 1970. I warn against forgetting this principle from current players of power; I warn against taking into the Constitution representations of interests, and I am advocating to abolish compulsory membership in the representations of interests. All of this is written in the main book, which, at every opportunity, will lead the freedom to which they are ringing, on the lips, but when it comes to power, they would like to pour into the abyss or into a grave. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10143	The next speaker was Dr Zinggl, Member of Parliament. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10167	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We agree with the law, as it stands, essentially – Mr Green Forest will explain it as well – but a section, namely § 5a, is worrying us. He has made us worried in the committee, but nothing has been changed, so we need to discuss this somehow. Government parties want secondary teaching staff out of practice. That's okay, that's what we want. The fact that these people have to have a relationship of service outside the universities is a bit strange. Let us imagine that it would be a woman who did 15 years of controlling at Siemens and then leave for family reasons and would like to teach at the university. It would of course be excellent, but it is not possible under the law. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, that's not true! That's not right!]] Relations outside the university also concern universities. Teachers at universities also have such a service relationship, but are not out of practice. That's the second. The law as a whole is actually outrageously formulated. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] By-vocational teachers are said to be “exclusively active in teaching”. But you think that they should be in the teaching department at the university – and not, Mrs. Brinek, sit in the porter log. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is the specific teaching!]] You mean that? But you also have to write that. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] I also told you in the Committee, because otherwise it would mean that they can only be active in teaching, so only from universities. I have already explained it to you, but now let me point out: The second is to pursue another social security activity. This is a very important point. What happens if one teacher loses this other job, i.e. if someone works two hours by work and the other job, loses the main job? – First possibility: He's going to be terminated. Second possibility: He is mainly employed there. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What's the problem?]] Then someone – I told you before – has a main job with two hours of a week and another with six hours of work per week. I guess that can't be true. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Because there are other conditions!]] Thirdly, Mrs Brinek: The secondary teachers should be allowed to be represented by others. - Now we're thinking about what can happen. It may happen that someone wants to be represented or represented a hundred percent by someone else who does not fulfil all of these conditions that you have written into the law. This means that it can be handled classically. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was the administrative court!]] Do you know, Mrs Brinek – and I have also told you that – what the universities are saying about this? The universities do not have these advantages. You have to pay the service providers' contributions, which are now issued to the technical colleges. In any event, it is at the moment that the teachers will partly teach at both teaching institutions – both at the university and at the university – and the university will pay their service contributions. – It really can't be! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's another type! Let's wait, I told you!]] We have referred to all of this in the Committee and asked you to correct it. We would like to agree, but you have ignored it, and I am telling you now: I'm sure I won't keep that. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That was the union's wish!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That would then be clear conditions, and I therefore ask for approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10340	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10419	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10440	Mr President. High house! As I said, the legislative amendment covers two areas. One of these has already been mentioned several times, namely the clarification of the legal and social security nature of readers at vocational colleges. Here it was important to note that someone who teaches for a maximum of six hours actually has a secondary job. I repeat: There is probably the possibility to decide whether or not to have a social security scheme through the university of higher education in less than six hours. However, we assume that this is a secondary activity, because we are interested in the fact that people from practice who also have educational interest and pedagogical tendencies are teaching their knowledge and, in fact, teaching secondary vocational schools. I hope that this change of law will now also be able to take into account the needs of higher education providers who have rightly pointed out that if we do not agree with this regulation, there will be an additional cost burden. The second topic is the creation of a student representation. I am certainly not suspicious of the content of some of the social policy statements of the existing high school, but it belongs to a democracy. It is precisely because of the fact that different opinions are accepted. All those involved are invited to make the appropriate corrections when the next election is held. One must accept that there are different opinions in a democracy, even if they do not always fit one. There have long been discussions on the question of the representation of the high school students in a student representative body. This has already been addressed by the speakers. It simply needs to be clarified whether one's own representative of university students comparable to the ÖH can be created or whether there should be an integration into the entire university. There have been the corresponding votes among students. I have said from the outset that I am here looking for comprehensible majority decisions by those concerned. This has happened, and I must admit that it has taken place very short-term from the leadership of the ÖH, in fact a day before the committee meeting, but we have taken the opportunity to do so. In fact, I apologize for the short term. Something has happened here – or something will happen if you agree – which is rare: that a group that wants something goes to politics, that politicians announce that they are planning it for mid 2008, and that it is already happening at the end of 2007. So I hope there's satisfaction here. I thank you for the good cooperation and wish and hope that the student representation will take advantage of this opportunity. If there is a cooperation between the University of Applied Sciences and the University at the student representation level, this can also be a first useful step towards an even better cooperation between the two institutions. It is now based on the level of student representation. I think it is a necessary, overdue step, and I would like once again to invite all Parliament's political groups to give the appropriate support here. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10489	Mrs Stadler is speaking. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10510	Mr President. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! Col. Graf is not here, but I am allowed to say to his address that for years students at the colleges wish to have a super-regional student body. We are in line with this concern and wish today. It's not a compulsive happiness, it's nothing but equal treatment. It's about our students at the colleges having a representation, a speech tube. At the same time, we will also change the regulation of working conditions for secondary and research staff members. In the future, an employee relationship, a free relationship of employment or a work contract shall be considered as the basis of the contract for the ancillary work. In addition, this six-semester week limit is introduced. Dear colleague Zinggl, this is an important step in ensuring the quality of practical training at professional universities, because especially our professional universities are characterized by their closeness to practice in training to take account of the circumstances and needs of the economy. If we continue this path in the technical college now, as we do in the dual training in apprenticeship training, then this is to be welcomed. Why? Because we want to give our young people a good basis for their professional life. If companies like to make their employees available to professional universities as teachers, they will do so because they are interested in training and preparing future employees for the differentiated challenges. This six-semester week limit also ensures that there can be no exploitation and no abuse. It is an improvement in training at the technical colleges – and for this reason, Mr Zinggl, I call on you to consider this again and perhaps agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10552	Next, Mr Riepl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10574	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr Zinggl, I think it is possible, of course, that every body of law we decide and discuss in the course of the practical application shows that there is some kind of uncertainty or ambiguity. [[Abg. Dr. Zinggl: Sometimes before!]] It can always happen. But already to construct examples of whether this occurs or not? - We'll see everything. If necessary, we will look at this together and, if necessary, make a correction. But I don't think that's new either. At any rate, it is now about amending this high-school study law and setting out clarifications, in particular in the field of secondary work; secondary work – it has already been said and carried out – either in the employee relationship, in a free service relationship or on a work contract basis and up to six semesters per week. What I would like to point out in particular in the debate is § 5a para. 4, i.e. that the Law cited 98 Constitutional Law, the Human Information Law for Works Council or Staff Representative. Here it is clarified – and I think that is a very important position and provision – that this personal information law should now also apply to the group of secondary staff, even if there is a free service relationship or an independent activity. This is particularly noteworthy, Mr Federal Minister, because in the original § 98 Constitutional Law such clarification is not written and can therefore indirectly also have an impact on § 98 Constitutional Law in other employment conditions. I think that is very positive in itself. That is why, from my point of view, this is an important extension of the quality of co-determination. I would like to point out a comment on your part, Mr Federal Minister, which you have made on the Committee. They have given thanks there for the legal cooperation of the trade union. This is remarkable because in recent years we have not actually heard such statements from ÖVP ministers, rather the opposite has occurred there or there. That's why I thought that's actually part of the record, that must be already. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, don't exaggerate!]] I assume that this whole story was serious. - You nod, so it's serious. [[Abg. Neugebauer: You didn't do that well, Franz!]] We will see if this can be repeated in the future. Last but not least, since I am not on the speaker list at the previous item on the agenda, I have one more request, Mr Federal Minister. When it comes to questions from the medical faculties in the universities, I think we have a deficit which is getting bigger, namely the shortage that we have fewer and less opportunities for professional doctors of occupational medicine in Austria; except for the Vienna Med-Uni, there is nowhere else. Therefore, the request, once a glance, if it goes from your side somehow to throw on it. I think we have great tasks in the field of occupational medicine in particular, and they can only be remedied with highly trained specialists. – In this sense: Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10637	Mr Grünewald is next spoken. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10658	Mr President. Thank you, Minister of State! High house! I'll take a short look and say, To my colleague Zinggl's criticism of the law, Mr Riepl said that it was already more common or nothing new if laws were subsequently corrected. I can only agree. It has already become routine that laws need to be corrected afterwards. This could be prevented if one could take into account the general requirements of clarity and perceptibility in advance. In short: I already understand the colleges. They have ultimately complained that despite rapid expansions, despite increasing numbers of students, the budgets have so to speak not migrated on this high-speed flight. Therefore, of course, the desire to save where it is going was great. One must not forget that this law saves them service providers' contributions, which the university may not be able to afford, which is why it could only wish for such conditions of a study place financing as it is with professional universities. But you will see, we are already thinking well about what we are doing in the vote. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes, consider!]] Don't worry, just a bit of patience, it'll be tuned right away. Now to the rest, to the ÖH: I think it is excellent that this has happened, and I very much congratulate the group of students involved in the vocational colleges, but also the ÖH, that they have decided to take the common step. So far, they have been more or less private associations at the technical colleges, which have received their money in individual cases when they have fulfilled the requirement not to go to this ÖH and, so to speak, to behave politically abstinent, neutral or as a Swiss being. The fact that this is now being lost and that new and better working conditions are taking place is good. That is why I do not understand the comments made by the FPÖ at all when one considers the ÖH to be politically displeasing events with the funds. There you have to ask: Does the FPÖ or the RFS determine what is “missive” or not? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] And if the previous speaker of the FPÖ also says: As a FPÖ mandatar one is put in terror!, I must say: I have always believed that Wotan's disciples are a little more fearless and courageous and are not so quick to get into terror. - But I can be wrong. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] To conclude: Not everything has happened with this ÖH determination yet. I only call the University of Applied Sciences Kufstein and the Querels that the rights of students, but also the rights of staff working there, are not negotiated in any forums, that there is no organisational structure here, such as university teachers can be transparently defined and informed in participations. I think that, like the university law, there should be another law. That's what the high school council says. I would therefore ask you to think about it in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10711	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Reported on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10732	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! I am also allowed to comment briefly on the student representation. I have to say one thing: I have to point out what Mr Graf has said, because here I have to put the entire ÖH representation and all the students into a pot, or with such examples that may be a bit provocative, into a bad light, which is really to be rejected. I do not know, Mr Graf – I do not see him now – but perhaps you would prefer workshops where you can drive around in Carinthia forests with your party owner and clubman. It may be, but that's your thing. I can also say here that democracy costs something, and students are also willing to do something to help. There are always riders who may then want to hang in and pay nothing for it, that may be already. But we have had the experience that this representation is therefore effective. This is a question of representing interests, of giving opinions, of further development of universities as a whole and, in this case, of technical colleges. I believe that this right should also be acceptable to the students of the colleges: that they can bring themselves in here. This democratic co-determination is a major concern for us from the ÖVP in all matters, from school and beyond. I should therefore like to congratulate you very warmly, Mr Minister, and to conclude this passage with your words, by saying: Well done! However, I would like to make the following brief request: [[Quoted print version removed]] This is a clarification of linguistic clarity. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10792	Mr Dipl.-Ing. The amendment submitted is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10851	Mrs Fürntrath. — (NL) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10872	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! Mr Green Forest, by the way, you are wrong, because the budget is growing. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] As the last speaker, I do not want to mention the change in the law at all. I would like to confirm what the first speaker, Mr Graf, has already said: The University of Applied Sciences is a success story for itself. That's right, I can say that as a bully in particular. We have 41 courses in Styria, 30 in Graz, eight in Kapfenberg and three in Bad Gleichenberg, and all are well visited. From my point of view, we have not only a win-win situation, but there are three winners: first, the professional universities themselves, second, the graduates of the vocational colleges, because they are well-trained, and third, the companies, because the companies get well-trained, especially practice-oriented employees. We will continue to follow this success model. – Why, do you think, is this a success model? Just because we have entrance exams for these colleges! I would like to thank you for your support for this change of law. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e10915	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. Then I can ask all the ladies and gentlemen to take their seats, because we come to the votes. Firstly, we shall vote on the draft law in 277 of the Supplements. Mr Brinek, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen have tabled an amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Zinggl. Finally, Mr Graf has made a request for a separate vote. First of all, I will vote on the parts of the bill concerned by the amendment mentioned and the request for separate vote, and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law that have not yet been voted. Deputies Dr. Mr Brinek, Mr Broukal, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have tabled an amendment which refers to point 3. I would like to ask those Members of the House who give this request their approval for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 4 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 5 of the draft law as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask for a sign on this subject if I agree. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Zinggl, colleagues in the field of teaching and research staff at technical colleges. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. [[14:33:46]] 4. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (228 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Family Allowance Act 1967 (316 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11029	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. The first speaker was Mrs Rosenkranz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11059	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This government template deals with the multi-children's season and some other smaller points. My colleague will make another request for the multi-children's season. We believe that since the Austrian family very often has only one child – 1.4 children are the birth rate – it is necessary to start this multiple-child season with the two-child families. In this sense, there will be an application. What has been forgotten – and we also make a request for it – is to improve the situation of disabled children and the families caring for disabled children. But what I am referring to now is a point that, as it were, doesn't fit particularly well with the other; it was done quickly. Almost everyone has the impression that something is being arranged here through the back door without the attention being paid to it. It is about proof of service that students must provide if they are to continue to receive family allowances. Until recently, this range of services has been calculated mainly after the so-called semester hours. It was necessary to bring testimonies over eight semesters of the week to ensure the benefit of family aid. There is now a change to the so-called ECTS points; there is a conversion factor that is defined and that is 1 : 2. As already mentioned in the review and to be read, in individual fields of study, it is pointed out, especially in the technical studies, that this conversion factor is unfair. In the various studies, it should be different, and especially in the technical study directions, the conversion factor, which is all over a comb, means that the proof of performance to be provided increases the scope of performance. Or vice versa: Those who do the same as they do up to now may fall out. There has been a very convenient way of securing a provision which may reduce the circle of family allowances among students. If you want to do that, if you want to save here, you should say it clearly and openly and not do it so next door. [[Abg. Steibl: That's not true! That's a false information!]] I hope you've read what's in the review. I've found what's there very clear. I mean, you shouldn't have done that next door, you could have discussed it a little longer. We do not want to take this point with us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That is why we have also asked for a separate vote on this paragraph 1 which we will reject.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11103	The next speaker is Mrs Heller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11126	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The families are the smallest cell of society, but they provide essential services for the whole society. I am thinking here of securing the generation agreement, the provision of key social values such as responsibility and solidarity, and above all, I am thinking that families are largely cared for and cared for by older people. Of course, these achievements, which families perform, are worthy of the recognition of the ÖVP politicians, especially our Federal Minister Kdolsky, who is once again taking further important steps in order to continue to force the highly developed support systems of family policy in the international comparison. An important measure is the strengthening of the promotion of multi-child families, which is implemented with this family burden compensation law-Novelle. We take into account that family studies prove that from the third child onwards, the financial burden on families increases. Therefore, there is an important support for these multi-child families with the increase of siblings. Also included is an increase in the income limit for the multiple-child supplement to € 55 000, and the amount of full-year children's earnings is also increased. These measures will benefit the multiple-child families € 36 million. No state in the world can afford sufficient financial support to all the services provided by families. However, it is important for the Austrian People's Party to invest, in addition to the social recognition of family benefits, in particular in strengthening the social and economic security of families. This amendment takes account of this objective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11163	Member of the Commission. Belakovich-Jenewein is the next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11185	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In the light of the government's proposal for a debate, one thing is striking: Whoever falls through the rust here, these are the families with disabled children, with significantly disabled children, because they get from 1. January 2008 no increase. These are, as I mean, families that are not only more psychologically burdened, but above all also have more to do financially, such as for therapies, for diet food and the like. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this request. I also felt in the Committee yesterday that it is already a matter of concern for all political groups to give these families an additional contribution. Moreover, this government proposal: If you look through the presentation, you have to say that there is, of course, already a promotion from the third child, a promotion of the so-called multiple-child families, and of course you have to ask the question here: What Is “Morekind ”? I think, “Morekind” is already the second child. Given a birth rate in Austria of 1.2 children per woman, the second child is already a “multichild”, and I think one would have done well to promote the second child already, to give families with two children a grant to what they now get, to promote it more strongly. Unfortunately, this is not provided for in this government template – we are very sorry – and for this reason I would like to make another request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I also ask for approval here, because I believe that it should be worth our Austrian families simply to get more under their arms financially. They all know it's getting more expensive, the families are those who are among the poorest in this country, and the second child is already a huge financial burden. That is why I think it would be useful to promote families with two children. One has the impression in this government template – as good as it may be, and it is so good that the third child is promoted – unfortunately, God sometimes also has the impression that Mrs. Bures has expressed herself very strongly, that her manuscript here quite It appears to me that this is still good in my ear, 19th century. She said in the Equal Treatment Committee on September this year – on a question of the Greens – that: I know that the migrant families are particularly disadvantaged, but we are now taking measures such as an increased promotion of the third child. This is the appropriate way to promote the migrant families. – I almost fear when I look at this government template that it has been implemented. I would like to ask you: If we already support the second child, we support our domestic families, they are at least the basis for our state!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11295	The amendments tabled by Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein are sufficiently supported, properly tabled and are therefore under negotiation. The two applications have the following general wording:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11430	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11452	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, I would be pleased if there would be an opinion in the Freedom Party on any subject without any hostile undertones. [[Congratulations with SPÖ and Greens.]] The fact that you really interpret the increase in the multiple-child allowance at once as a disparity and unfair treatment of so-called domestic children is really attracted to the hair, because you already need a lot of imagination. But on the very subject. – The multiple child supplement is increased. This is an important step in that poverty studies demonstrate that families with several children are actually among the most vulnerable groups in the country. I would like to add, of course, that at this point: It is not only the number of children, but also the family income, and of course the families with several children and only one income are those who are particularly vulnerable to poverty. That means that this increase is an important step, but other steps must also be taken in the sense of combating poverty. We are in the process of this step, which must be seen in the context of a family policy package – we have improved child benefits, we are increasing family support for certain groups of persons today, and the next step, namely the childcare offensive, will be to implement what we have taken as progress in the government agreement as a family policy. I have already pointed out that this is an important step for a group of people who are vulnerable to poverty, but this is not a sufficient step. I have pointed out that it is also a matter of what income is available in the respective household, in the respective family, and in this context it must be pointed out again and again that financial support, monetary family benefits, are only a condition of support for families; By the way, Austria is a leader in this field, and we are expanding this even further today. At the other stage, namely the support of families through the relevant benefits that need to be provided, for example, in order to support children in order to support women's work, for example through the development of childcare facilities, we are not top-rankers. It is therefore particularly important that it not only remains in the development of the one leg, but that we hope very soon we will also be able to implement the next step we have taken, namely to create the missing 50 000 care places really quickly. I am very glad that there will again be the corresponding financial and budgetary support here at the federal level after years in which this was not a matter of concern, in which it was deleted. As regards disabled children, increasing family support for disabled children, I can say that, like my previous speaker, I also took the impression from the Committee that this is a concern of all political groups, and I was also very pleased with the commitment made by the Federal Minister yesterday in the Committee that: Let us take this issue into account next year.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11515	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11536	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs. Minister! High house! “Make Austria more family friendly” – that was the tenor in the committee yesterday. The distinction, Mrs Kuntzl, has not, of course, been made – we now meet here – which we really want to take into account and whom we want to prefer. I would like to inform you of a few figures of Statistics Austria, which will be well known to you. We are now experiencing a complete restructuring of the Austrian population. This means not only that we have hardly any more young people, but also that we will still have an interesting increase in population density by 2050, 2075. For this purpose, specific figures are as follows: At present we have an age structure, which is about 22 percent of the over 60s. In 2075, we will be 34 per cent Austrians over 60 years of age. - Point one. Point two: Due to the birth balance and the migration balance, we can see that this growth in the Austrian population is exclusively – exclusively! – due to migration, which is due to migration, and since – later on I also come back to you, Professor Van der Bellen – we are very likely to have influence possibilities on the part of Austria. That is, we are experiencing a deficit in the birth balance and an incredible increase in Austrian population density through migration. – This cannot be the intention of a reasonable Austrian family policy! This is an exchange of the indigenous population, which we do not want to see without harm. Now I'm with you, Mrs Kuntzl: They are talking about the fact that every FPÖ speech is being insulted against foreigners. [[Abg. May. Kuntzl: No, I didn't say that!]] I tell you that every speech by the Freedom Party is being held for the domestics, for our families, and that is the difference to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If you are talking about poverty – and you need to be aware of it as an expert – then it must also be said quite clearly that the families in Austria are impoverished because they do not receive support from the state because the tax system does not fit. I wonder why you are constantly opposed to this reasonable model of tax division. I can tell you why this is so: Because because of your tax model you also want to prefer foreigners again. – To this end, we continue to say: No, no, no, I'd like to give you more numbers. [[Abg. Grill: Unless you have these numbers!]] But the fact is: We will not see the autochthonic population of Austria being exchanged – with your meagre ideas that you are constantly spreading. On the facts that are still on the table: Have you ever considered, Mrs Kuntzl or also the green half of the empire, what will happen if we really experience this old age, which is now beginning to emerge? Have you ever considered the consequences for the economy, which is to maintain an economy with 34 percent of over 60 year olds? Have you ever considered what a development block that will be for this country, where there will still be prosperity for that country? Have you ever considered whether the health care or the care system can still be maintained in this country? Have you ever considered that this payment system in the pension model will no longer be eligible for funding? These are facts that are on the table. Nevertheless, you go here and do not want to work consistently for the Austrian families. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kuntzl.]] This is the point I am holding out to you, and that is why we did not meet in the Family Committee. Now I come to a point which the Minister of Foreign Affairs made yesterday and which surprised me too. On the question of why we do not manage to raise from the second child, and why we do not manage to make moderate and meaningful adjustments due to the euro conversions, she says: That would be too expensive for us. After the urgent moment, you'll get the numbers from me about how expensive it really is. The fact is, you're doing pea-telling here at the expense of the families. You are not willing to promote Austrian families from the second child! Only if this is possible – if we are willing to put in place effective measures on the part of tax policy and on the part of a genuine, good family support – will we succeed in bringing Austrian families forward and finally lifting this downward spiral in which we are located.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11601	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11623	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Mr Klement, you have now spoken a lot about our children and foreign children, Austrian children and other children. It's the same thing to us: We want no child to live in poverty in Austria! That's where we differ, I think, from you in principle. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] The present proposal to amend the family allowance is no reason for us to rejoice; yesterday in the Committee it came out at the beginning as if it were a cause for rejoicing. What is positive is, in any case, the increase in family aid. And what is also positive from our point of view is that this staggering will become more effective for families with three or more children. And why, Mrs. Colleague? – Because precisely these families are more affected by poverty. We know this from the Social Report and other statistics. This concerns Austrian families and families of migrants in the same way, which does not matter at all. We say that we do not want these families to live in poverty, and that is why we need to give special support here. We will vote in favour of this request, but I will tell you why I am not in principle enthusiastic about it. This is the case because Austria – and this is true – is one of the countries most often in the financial sector for families. Making direct payments; yet, we do not succeed in preventing poverty in families. We have a third of single parents who are not employed – they are vulnerable to poverty – and every fourth family with three children and more is vulnerable to poverty. That is to say, obviously our current system does not take effect. We wished it would be different. For example, after the current application, a family with four children will receive almost 100 € more family allowance. That's good, and that helps families. On the other hand, if you think that every Austrian child needs 160 € per year to pay for childcare places, you often have to pay 100 €, 200 € or more per month, on average – 160 € on average! – then these are costs for the parents who make much more of a book than the increase they now receive from the family allowance. In other words, it is primarily for childcare facilities to be used in a school system that looks at the children's deficits and builds up and supports them in order to avoid these high recovery costs by far. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We have an area of young people who are currently concerned about family aid, which is all those who make the voluntary social year. In today's discussion, this has already been addressed during medical studies: It should be introduced in such a way that there can be an experimental phase. – There is! The voluntary social year exists, and it is increasingly used, for example, by professional universities or in further trainings in the form that it is also recognised and positive for people who would like to find admission there. It is precisely these young people or their families that do not receive family allowances at the moment. There is a solution in such a way that the Ministry of Social Affairs makes an annual payment to partially replace the family aid in the form of a special directive. It is not clear whether this will be paid next year, there is no claim to it. Then this payment of the ministry is regarded as income, i.e. the young people lose any maintenance payments or orphanage. The solution, as it is currently looking, costs up to €200 000 more than the family aid would cost. The reason for this is that you, Mrs Kdolsky and Mr Sozialminister Buchinger, obviously cannot agree. From me, you fight around, but don't ask at the expense of the young people and their families! Find a solution here! I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It is about getting the same support for these young people and their families. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11710	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Mandak is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11756	The next speaker is Mrs Haubner. Mrs Colleague, I will interrupt you at 3 p.m. to call for the urgent request. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11778	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! High house! A 2006 study has shown that Austria is in the forefront of family benefits – it is true what Mr Mandak said – especially in the financial field, in the area of financial services. I think that poverty cannot be completely prevented, but precisely because of this high financial performance, poverty has been reduced even in recent years. We have increased the family budget by 30 percent over the last six years! I am thinking only of the greatest family reform that has ever existed, the introduction of childcare allowance; I am thinking of the introduction of the income-dependent multi-children's allowance; I am thinking of the introduction of siblings, school leavers, schoolbooks, social security, especially women, with regard to retirement periods, and above all with regard to the large tax relief for the families and the increase in the single-earner and single-parent discount. Ladies and gentlemen! If we want to continue to take the needs of families seriously, we need to further develop the system. What we decide today is a very small building block in the whole system, because it belongs to many more. It is for us that the amount of child care allowance is abolished; it is a matter of making a family tax reform quickly; and it is also part of the introduction of the free kindergarten year, at least before entering school. I have already said that this is a small part, but we are going to give the BZÖ our approval today, because especially multi-child families are particularly threatened with poverty. A wormhead drop is sure that this increased siblings are only available from the third child. We will also vote in favour of the current FPÖ amendment. We from BZÖ are committed to strengthening the promotion of the multi-child families. However, we also acknowledge that families with significantly disabled children in particular need much more support. If there is an agreement from all parties to do something here, we want to support it with our request as well. We therefore call for increased family allowances to be increased and for families with significantly disabled children to be strengthened. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] We therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11850	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ursula Haubner, Mr Sigisbert Dolinschekund, on strengthening the families, is sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11916	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda so that the urgent request for urgent procedure can take place at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:01:07]] Request for urgent procedure Mr Heinz-Christian Strache, colleagues in the fight against the progressive impoverishment of the Austrian population by means of a fair increase in pensions and a modern restructuring of the social state (446/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e11947	We come to urgent treatment of the self-employed application 446/A(E). As he has now approached all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the writer. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12072	I give the floor to Mr Deputies as an applicant for the reasons for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed 20 minutes. Please, Mr Klubobmann.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12095	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Sozialminister! Ladies and gentlemen! Poverty, Mahatma Gandhi once said, is the worst form of violence that can exist in a society. – It is a form of violence that unfortunately in Austria has more and more people to suffer. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Osaka]] We have to find out. In Austria, we have more and more people who are missing the most necessary, whether the cost of heating oil is concerned, whether the operating costs have increased accordingly, whether this concerns all the price increases that can be determined. There are people who simply don't know how to get over the rounds, who have to turn every cent – until some time ago – into every big one – since the introduction of the euro, which is often rightly referred to as the "teuro" in the language usage of the population. They don't even have to turn around twice, but ten times every cent, so they're half over the rounds. They can't often ask themselves the question either: What do I eat today?, What do we eat today?, but are really already in the situation that they cannot choose the food plan, but can just make sure that they have something to eat. So far we are in some areas. There are more than 1 million people in Austria today, 1 087 000 people at risk of poverty, with 13 percent of Austrians at risk of poverty. In Austria, we have the situation that people have to live below the poverty line and only a salary of €815 per month, twelve times per year, from which one can draw. In fact, the average income of the vulnerable population is only about €680 per month, so that acute poverty as well as social exclusion are felt and experienced and people have to live with it. 460 000 people live below the poverty line, which still represents a percentage that is dramatically high, namely, 6 percent of the total population. This is a dramatic development! This dramatic development must be countered and countered. These are terrifying figures that all of us should vote for. But we should not only be thoughtful in this context, but also make concrete actions. It is always put into space that Austria is one of the richest countries in the world. If that is the case, then at least it must be noted that there is an uneven distribution of wealth in Austria! Then we really have to ask ourselves the question: If we are one of the richest countries in the world, how is wealth distributed? And how does a fair distribution come about? Unfortunately, we have to note that in recent years the social sheath has not been closed but has continued to disperse. We must note that poverty has increased. We must note that, above all, the middle class has increasingly been led into a problematic situation, yes, that the middle class is threatening to “crush” in essential areas. The middle class, however, is also the backbone of a society, and if it already concerns the middle class, then all the alarm bells in our society must ring! That's exactly what it's all about: We not only want to fight for social justice, we also want to ensure social justice. We would also like to point out that, especially in the European Union, with its globalization madness, which is being lived there and before the unfortunately God also in this House, all possible parties are happy to kneel, just as they like to kneel before the Technocrats, a misdevelopment is noticeable – a misdevelopment that is based on the European Union! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What is happening here is an ever faster liquidation of the middle class, which makes it thinned and “crushes. ” That's something you can't take. If you look more closely at the fact that more and more people are getting into poverty traps, you will find that is not surprising. Why? – Because there are significant price increases, especially since the introduction of the euro in 2002! That's a fact: Since the introduction of the euro in 2002, there have been significant price increases! At the same time, however, we experience that the wage level has remained relatively constant and stable over the last 10 to 15 years. There has been no corresponding increase, but an almost equal wage level, with experts, including Wifo, finding that today in Austria we have almost a worse purchasing power than 15 years ago. This is often not taken note of by the ÖVP side, but that is what the Wifo says. This should not only be thoughtful for all of us, but also encourage us to take action to counter it! I mention just a few of the “highlights” of price increases and gains since 2002, because this is an endless list: Basic electricity meter fee: 103 percent increase; Heating oil: 68.7 percent increase; Engine oil: 48.3 percent increase; Beef and veal: 45.6 percent increase; Basic gas charge: plus 45.5 percent; Diesel: plus 44.4 percent; Property operating costs: plus 42.4 percent; Potatoes: plus 37.5%; electricity: plus 29.6 percent; Gas: plus 29.3 percent; Milk: plus 29 percent. – You can continue this endlessly. With this price increase, price explosion and a constant wage level, it should not be surprising that more and more people in the country are affected by poverty. These are just a few examples of price increases that I have mentioned, so it is no wonder that the poverty traps are becoming more and more merciless and brutal and that more and more people no longer know how to cope with these price increases. That must force us to act now! We are experiencing a devaluation of money, which we must counter. The resources that can be distributed are becoming increasingly scarce; we know that too. In our opinion, the reason for this is obvious – there will be a few more shouts: It is the completely missing and out of the row immigration policy! There will be some yelling, no question. [[Abg. Oillinger: I thought the euro was to blame!]] On the one hand, we are experiencing a completely out of control immigration policy, on the other hand On the other hand, social and family policies have simply failed in the way we know them up to now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Oils: What's the cause? The price of the euro or...?]] There are experts, Mr Oellinger, who note that net immigration is about 50,000 immigrants per year after today. [[Abg. Oils: 30,000 to 50,000!]] It is 50,000 people who migrate annually, because it has wanted red and black, but also the previous government – I give you the right – politically. The previous government – which was also my predecessors, who broke the free promises and were therefore duly elected by the voters – then admitted the immigration of 50,000 per year from 2000, and the current German government has stated in the government programme that it is still intended to continue to do so, even further. Talking to experts or using quotes from experts from various media, it is important that some 7,000 people who migrate each year become employed. So 7 000 of the annual immigrants do not go to the acquisition process and the rest! The rest is not active, the rest costs the state something, namely the social system, and of course this cannot work. Of course, this is exactly what we are experiencing today: that the social system is no longer eligible for funding, that money is missing at all corners and ends, and that citizens must be suddenly brought to mind, as we have seen in recent years, that unfortunately, God's social cuts have been removed. [[Abg. Oils: What does it mean to “remove social cuts ”?]] This is the wrong way, and that is exactly why we have to counter it here. I say quite consciously – that may be indifferent to the Federal Government: Our call for a study on the costs of immigration in order to finally ensure the cost of immigration has unfortunately rejected God's red and black with the support of the Greens; I believe the BZÖ has also refused. But that would be necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] However, this cost truth would finally be made to know: What do those immigrants who come really bring in, and what do they take out of the social pot, because, after your argument, we should have social pots that are filled to the ground today at mass immigration. The opposite is the case, and that is why we also need to ensure the cost-effectiveness of what you refuse. And why do you refuse? – Because They seem to want to continue to cover this, continue to want to be beautiful and do not want to tell the Austrian people the reality. That may be your intention. You may also be interested in using other cheap wage slaves from Eastern Europe – I say so clearly – for industrial firms, for groups as cheap workers, because it is not prepared to give Austrian workers, the skilled, a corresponding wage level. This is your policy on the part of the ÖVP, but that the SPÖ – that is why I am saying that – is still living in this rosarote multicultural cloud-cuckoo house, that it is working there as a means of fulfillment, is completely incomprehensible to me. That is exactly where I would expect – I am now saying this quite consciously – that this neoliberal nonsense is addressed when it comes to ensuring employee protection interests for the Austrian population, for their own workers here in the country. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] The domestic economy has been growing for years – that is beautiful and good, we know. When we look at who has something of it, we insist that large parts of the population unfortunately do not perceive anything of this economic growth of God, do not feel anything. There is no economic growth in the pockets of their own population. 2006 is the monthly net income in Austria at €1,516, which is below the level of 15 years ago. This can be seen, as has been said, from data from the Economic Research Institute. You will ask: Why aren't the alarm bells ringing? We say: That's where they'd have to ring! I do not understand how to sleep quietly in such a development as a government-responsible party – regardless of whether SPÖ or ÖVP – when you know, you are worse than 15 years ago. You actually have to sleep badly and think day and night about how you can change that. We also come to the topic of pensions and pensioners. The pensioners get lip recognition from your side, from the government bank. As a Liberal Group in the House, we have come to realize in good time that this issue is extremely important, and we have therefore requested a special meeting in November 2006 because at that time we, the only group in the House, recognized that it cannot be so that pensioners can be fed off with 1.7 percent pensioner price index adjustment. This cannot be because the last five years have seen a robbery of pensions. In the end, the previous Federal Government has also contributed to the fact that no index adjustment has been made to ensure that the pensioners have been stolen, and now it would have been necessary – yes, I know, clearly. [[Abg. Rädler: But there was the FPÖ!]] You're friends with the BZÖ, not us! This is your majority procurement party, not ours. We have said quite clearly and clearly that this is not our policy. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] They are the main responsibility of the Austrian People's Party to ensure that the pensioners have been stolen. In November 2006, one had to fix it to ensure what they had stolen, plus index adjustment at last. [[Abg. Rädler: That was the FPÖ!]] If the price increases were used, this would have meant and would have meant that pensioners would receive 2.6 percent pensioner price index adjustment and that a pension increase of at least €50 gross per month would also be ensured for the lower pensioners. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That would be a decisive step! Let us look at this in concrete terms. The pensioners get a permanent trip. For years, pensioners' incomes have been devalued in real terms. With a monthly pension of 1 000 € gross, the reduction is already 808 € per year, and that is 5.5 percent. The Chamber of Labour, which is certainly not a liberal fore-field organisation, but a party independent – if you believe it, you will be blessed in some areas, but I say, party independent – has calculated that in just 20 years the existing pensions will lose 48.6 percent of their value, so half. The average male pension is currently 1 000 €, so that the men are still above the women's average pension, because there is not yet the same average pension, and the average female pension is currently only 700 € – therefore there is also greater poverty among women in the retirement age, which is also to be maintained. They would all fall below the poverty line in such a development. That's exactly what we've got to do. Since the statistics of Austria on behalf of the Austrian Seniors' Council on behalf of their own Pensionist Price Index account, this is obvious. That's where we have to act now. There is nothing to do with Mr Blecha as a senior speaker of social democracy and Mr Khol as a senior speaker of the Austrian People's Party outside, except for their own parties acting here in Parliament. That's the reality. [[Abg. Amon: But go, that's not true!]] – That’s true! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Or did you vote in favour of a 2.6 percent increase in our request at the time? You voted against it! And all the other political groups in this House voted for only 1.7%, including the BZÖ. Only 1.7 percent! Although we made the request at the time: 2.6%. God, unfortunately, has missed all the others. The pensioners have nothing to do with calculating the shopping cart for them and then leading them to see that the shopping cart as a whole has become cheaper. From the computer and the mobile phone that have become cheaper, the pensioners cannot lose. At the same time, however, bread, electricity and operating costs have risen to dizzying heights, and that is exactly what is crucial for a pensioner. That's why you just can't use the shopping cart you're always trying to do as an example. There is a need to bring back the concrete costs to which the pensioners are exposed today. That is why it is important to change something here too, namely to ensure 2.6 percent and at least 50 € grossly per month for small pensioners. We will make proposals for this today, and then we will see how it will then be agreed whether social responsibility has been given here or whether Mr Blecha and Mr Khol will be operating only foaming outside the population, because their own parties in this House act quite differently. ==References====External links== In July 2007, a juicy salary increase was granted. At the time, as a liberal group, we have said very critically that we should actually refrain from doing so. We could have gone ahead with a good example, but none of ÖVP and SPÖ had an open ear for it. There was also a percentage increase far above the pensioner price index, but other population groups are trying to resist it. That's exactly what we're talking about and what we want to put off. What is the Minister of Social Affairs doing? – That’s the question! Now you could ask: Is he a Social Minister? Is he a non-social minister? Is he a minister of failure, or is he one who, if you want to, is the Günther Platter of the social system? [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] That's also a way to philosophise about it. Is he the Günther Platter of the social system, who addresses a lot of things full of things, but where it then happens when it comes to implementation. If you look at the implementation, you can see: It is consoled, comforted, comforted, as in the area of care, where comforts, comforts, comforts, comforts. Where so-called solutions are presented, one can only wonder about them, because people are only quite put into a situation in which one takes off the last shirt. This is precisely a circle of people who are vulnerable to poverty. It is also necessary to ensure that care and care solution are ensured. What was immediately possible in the area of asylum with the countries, namely that the Federal Government and the Länder jointly provided €350 million per year for basic care, is missing in the care sector. There's no agreement. It seems that there is no need to find a solution for the 200 million, perhaps 250 million, who would be involved in the care sector, and to ensure this for those concerned. That would be important. And I am calling on you from the SPÖ to agree to our requests today. If you take your party name seriously, which also contains the subject and concept of the “social”, you should live it. Otherwise it would be more honest to delete this word from your party name; I say that quite openly. A society can only thrive and be happy if not a large part of the population is poor and driven into misery. That's where we have to counter it. The Scottish moral philosopher Adam Smith, the founder of classical economics, was already in the 18th century. In the 19th century, said that this is crucial for a society if they live in peace and do not want to have social conflicts. This sentence is equally true today. Let us prevent the impoverishment of the people in Austria! – Maybe you're making fun of it. [[President Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek gives the bell sign.]] My final sentence: If we start with the mineral oil tax – reduce to a maximum of €1, that is a free-of-charge requirement. Medicines – the loss of VAT!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12297	Mr Klubobmann, the closing point, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12312	Finally, let us put on the basic foods and put down the VAT there so that the poor people can afford bread and milk again! Let's do something to fight poverty in Austria – and not just empty lip confession!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12342	On the issue of an opinion, Mr Buchinger spoke on behalf of the Federal Minister for Social Affairs and Consumer Protection. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12364	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! As a Minister of Social Affairs, I am not sure, I should be pleased because, with this urgent request, the House is addressing a very important and crucial issue for people worldwide, in Europe and in Austria and is discussing it here, or should I be annoyed, because what is presented in this urgent request is not serious, does not contribute to a truly sustainable solution to the problem, partly based on incorrect figures and draws completely incorrect conclusions. [[Abg. Street: 1.7 percent are your contribution to pensioners!]] It is true that poverty, poverty prevention, poverty reduction is one of the most important social concerns. There are more than 1 billion people worldwide who need to live from less than one US dollar a day. 900 million people worldwide are starving. In the European Union too – Europe is the richest continent on earth – there are 70 million people who are vulnerable to poverty, including millions of children and young people. Even in Austria, the fourth-richest country in the European Union, we have nearly 1 million vulnerable people, 420 000 people living in manifest poverty, more than 270 000 vulnerable children and young people and 1.7 million people, who are not at risk of poverty, but who do not have the most necessary resources in one or more specific circumstances of life and are thus threatened with social depriving. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You say exactly the same thing as Street!]] A third of the Austrian women are therefore directly affected by the discussion that is being held here today. Something that can be delighted about, including in this discussion, is that the Austrian government has also addressed the issue of poverty prevention, poverty reduction in the government programme for the first time, has also taken the right measures and has consistently implemented these measures during the first ten months of its joint activity. [[Abg. She failed! To date failed!]] What are the main factors in risk of poverty? – There are five main factors responsible for risk of poverty. Firstly, the level of unemployment. Secondly, Employment and employment income and their distribution. Thirdly, Education and training. Fourthly, certain persons are particularly affected by household features – thinking For example, in the elderly, in the disabled, in people with a migrant background, but also in families with several children. Fifth, you open a bottle The extent of social benefits. I begin with the level of unemployment: Indeed, it is true that this important factor has increased significantly between 2000 and 2006. 80,000 unemployed more in these years, plus 40 percent, and with this also the pressure towards poverty risk was very, very strong in these years. What has the new Federal Government done? – With the new Federal Government, unemployment has been falling consistently since autumn last year, even if one expects the training participants to do so. Long-term unemployment decreases the most. This is so important because the poverty risk of people in employment is 7 per cent, the poverty risk of people with short-term unemployment is 14 per cent, but the poverty risk of people with long-term unemployment is 51 per cent. It is therefore so important that unemployment is now falling, and in particular, long-term unemployment. The government will continue to ensure that this process of unemployment decline continues, and will continue to support it with appropriate economic policy, budgetary policy, but also education, labour market policies from the background. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, it is not enough to have a job, not to be unemployed, but also important that good work is available, i.e. social security and with good income. They all know the phenomenon of working poor, in which despite employment, partly despite full-time employment poverty risk is not excluded. In its government programme, the Austrian Federal Government has formulated very decisive measures to counter this process of working poor, such as the introduction of a minimum wage on the basis of an agreement between the social partners – to a large extent already agreed with effectiveness 1. January 2009. The small group of members of the professions, as I am confident, will also be included in this good solution. Or: ensuring that social security protection is extended for precarious employment conditions. The inclusion of free workers in unemployment insurance; the inclusion of free workers in the full protection of health insurance, including weekly benefits. These are milestones! However, it is also a matter of applying for social security before the start of work, as it can prevent social security contributions from being saved at the expense of ordinary companies and employees. These are very, very important moments to ensure in employment that employment does not lead to poverty. [[Abg. Strache: Valorization of social benefits would also be a possibility!]] It is correct – and it has rightly been pointed out – that the distribution of income among employees, but also in the relation of employees' incomes to property and wealth incomes over the last ten years, has been out of balance. The wage rate has fallen in Austria, more than twice as much as it has fallen across Europe, and this is also addressed by measures of full employment, the normal working relationship, the minimum wage, good wages, as the social partners have most recently shown in the metal industry. This will also be followed by other sectors. This will also help to counter this disparity between incomes. There is a moment – on all other issues we agree with the government partner, we follow the programme together – where we consider it to be different, that is the question of the greater involvement of assets, in particular of wealth growth, in support of the social system and also in more uniform distribution. This is a discussion that will be safely conducted in connection with the wage and income tax reform. The fourth element: Education. In fact, there has been a reduction in educational opportunities in the last six years: fewer teachers, higher schooling in classes, missing education policy in many areas. With the new government, now also with the agreement on the New Secondary School, the course is set to achieve a more equal opportunity regardless of social origin. The expansion of childcare facilities in childcare facilities, the increased flexibility of child benefits, are also contributing to the promotion of equal opportunities in the education sector. In the poverty report I reported on. April 2007, there are many figures that have impressed me very much and emotionally occupied me. A number of people have impressed me most negatively: that today children from academic households have a 42 percent chance to reach an academic degree themselves, children from working-class households with compulsory schooling but only a 5-percent chance. If education poverty is inherited, it is one of the most challenging challenges facing social and educational policy, which has enormous social policy implications for it. The new Federal Government does this, it does it decisively and successfully. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The level of social expenditure, transfers, is one of the most crucial instruments for poverty prevention and poverty reduction. Without transfers, the poverty risk rate in Austria would not be at 12, but at say and write 43 percent. Almost half of the Austrians would be at risk of poverty. Even if you calculate pensions from this social transfer, the per capita income of the lower decile households, the lower 10 per cent, is 20 per cent, with no transfer benefits, is still left to be 30 per cent of the top decile income. This shows how much these transfers contribute to minimising income distribution and thus spraying in the possibility of sharing in social life. The Federal Government already has 1. In January 2007, a very clear signal was given by over 5 percent in the extraordinary increase in the compensatory allowance targets. Austria is therefore one of three countries in the European Union, which ensures that the pension level is at or above the poverty risk threshold. Further signals have been made with the commitment to the need-oriented minimum guarantee, which is now happily measured in the financial balance and is on the agenda for implementation in 2009 in consensus with countries and communities. Also the recipe fee cover, which at first glance is a health policy achievement – and that is it too! – has enormous social policy implications because it ensures that pensioners with an income of 800 € net, for example, will no longer have to spend 50, 60 or 70 € per month on prescription fees, but will not have to spend a maximum of exactly 16 €. It is a social-political disgrace if a pensioner today seriously considers whether to redeem the prescriptions she has been issued by the doctor because she is ill in the pharmacy because she may not be able to afford it. [[Abg. That's how it is! That's right!]] That's what we're gonna do with 1. January 2008, and this is a very great social policy progress! [[Congratulations with SPÖ and ÖVP.]] So I agree, the issue is important. I'm glad we're discussing it here. However, I must point out a little more concretely that the request you have made, Mr Klubobmann Strache, does not contribute to solving the problems, as the government programme does. [[Abg. Strache: You don't want to go into the price increase at all!]] They say self-critically, Mr Klubobmann, that the missing immigration policy of recent years has also come about under the participation of your party, and speak of an immigration of 50,000 people a year. [[Abg. That's it. Today's BZÖ!]] The actual figures were between 80 000 and 130 000 in annual gross immigration. [[Abg. Strache: We have spoken of net!]] The net figures were between 17 000 and almost 30 000 people. But the conclusion you draw from it is completely incorrect. [[Abg. Strache: Experts do this!]] I am referring to the example of expenditure and revenue in pension insurance. I have made the effort to have these figures removed since the last debate. Do you know how many foreign employees are paying in pension insurance in Austria? – There are 370 000. Do you know how many foreign colleagues from pension insurance receive a pension? - That's 80,000. The corresponding figures are: The revenue of foreign colleagues in pension insurance amounts to €1.7 billion a year, the expenditure of €0.4 billion. [[Abg. - So, how's that now?]] Net income in pension insurance is €1.3 billion. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: How many have been citizens in the meantime?]] You may not know, so I'm telling you: The pension payments are by far the largest in the field of social expenditure: From € 70 billion per year social expenditure in Austria is € 25 billion alone for pensions. It is a poverty certificate, Mr Klubobmann, but for the request that you do not even use current figures. [[Abg. Strache: You refuse the cost-truth of the Austrian population! They cover up the cost truth!]] They use the figures of the 2004 Social Report for the risk of poverty, although I am already using it on 30 June 2004. This year, the figures of the 2005 Social Report were published. Therefore, the numbers you use are outdated; they are not true. It would be a minimum of quality and seriousness to use current figures. Right, it is true what you have said that pensions have been increased under the inflation rate over the last seven years. The inflation rate in these seven years was 15 percent increase, consumer price index. Pensions were increased by 8.3 percent. That is, there is a net loss in pensions of almost 7 percent, which you, too, are responsible for in your government participation. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: The years before it was the same!]] [[Between call of the Abg. Ing. Westenthaler.]] The new Federal Government does not. With 1. In 2007, pensions were increased more strongly. Even now, there are good conversations – German Chancellors, Vice-Chancellors with the representatives of the Council of Seniors – in addition to the legal level of 1.7 percent, especially for smaller and medium-sized pensions, to increase pensions, because this has simply earned this generation. – We did not need the urgent request from you! [[Abg. Strache: You just need to decide something, don't talk!]] The invitation to these talks took place weeks ago. The first talks took place yesterday, and they will also be concluded in the next few days, because the problems in the new government will be solved, which cannot be said of your request. In turn, as you put it on the previous page in the last paragraph in your application – I quote – is correct: "In recent years, the social change in Austria has changed considerably. ==References====External links== insufficiently adjusted.’ This is true as evidence of the past, which is not true for 2007 and for the years to 2010, because together with the government partner we have undertaken to make these necessary adjustments in the social system and to contribute promptly and consistently to the serious problem of poverty prevention, poverty reduction and poverty at the end of this legislative period compared to what was the case before. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You are the prime minister who makes a finding for the future!]] [[Abg. Strache: Until now this is not visible and not noticeable!]] The new Federal Government sees this task as a priority and is consistent in the implementation of the relevant measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12650	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. First of all, Mr Neubauer has been mentioned at 10 minutes' speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12678	Madam President. Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Mr Buchinger, you are now a year in office and dignity. With the exception of a policy of announcement, however, the public of you has not yet noticed anything – except that you have lost your beard. If you go on like this, what? I can imagine that your credibility will soon be lost. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I have to tell you one thing: To make a speech here and to complain about a request from the liberals, who have the content of poverty in Austria and who is shown by what one could do to combat it, ladies and gentlemen, and then to accuse us that we would not offer any solutions in our request, which is probably one of the biggest chuzpe I have ever experienced. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: False Numbers!]] Mr Minister, we are happy to help you, but you already have to accept that you are in the government and you have to propose solutions with your coalition partner, which we decide here in Parliament – and not the other way round! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Good luck!]] If you are not able to do this, we are of course willing to reach out to you. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Why are your numbers wrong?]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Where do you have these numbers?]] Ladies and gentlemen, the OECD has found that Austria is the sixth most important country in the world. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Why “must be”?]] The citizens can do little with it, because that's the numbers that keep getting around, but they don't really feel in their wallet that they're so rich. I have therefore made the effort to ask what might be the reason for this, and have insisted that 1 per cent of the population has more share of total assets than 90 per cent of the total population, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Oillinger: But we have known that for years!]] And that at 30 or 40 years of a social democratic government in Austria! I wonder what has happened here in recent years to change that. [[Abg. Oellinger: There you were in the government!]] The fact is that low incomes have been increasingly being burdened for a long time and the benefit for social weak is increasingly being reduced. In this country there are 2.3 million seniors, ladies and gentlemen, and the average pension for this senior, for these pensioners is €848. According to a corresponding study, 848 € in Austria is the poverty line, ladies and gentlemen. That is what you want to do to those people who have worked for 40 or 45 years! – I find it unsocial and think that this is a social cold! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Let us take a look at the following – I have already told you this – so that we can make it a little more tangible, which means poverty in Austria: Linz has about 190 000 inhabitants. There is a so-called active pass in Linz. All those people who earn less than €1,000 a month receive this. – I can tell you how many people applied for this active passport in Linz and got it. That is 70 000 people, 40 percent of the Linz population, ladies and gentlemen. And if we are still saying that part-time workers are, of course, included, then this is a witness to poverty, ladies and gentlemen, how many people in our country actually have to suffer and live from poverty. If you still know that more than 100,000 nights of homeless people have taken place in Linz, then, dear Federal Minister, I ask you: [[Abg. Street: In the year!]] What to do You against this poverty in Austria? [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Lap.]] The people are poor – and this despite work. That's the reality! 46 percent of those at risk of poverty are affected. If we did not have the social benefits – which we thank God – then the risk of poverty in our country would not be 13.2 percent, but say and write 42 percent! That's how it looks! And you, Minister Buchinger, are quite surprised why we have tabled an appropriate request here today. You know, this imbalance, which our clubman has already mentioned, this sheer, can be explained very well by an example. There is Mr Treichl of Austria's First Bank. Statistics have calculated how long a worker, an employee, has to work so that she deserves what Mr Treichl deserves a year. Guess how long the good woman has to work! You won't get on it. 293 years, and half a year, she must work to get what Mr. Treichl deserves in a year. This is the scandal that reigns here in Austria; and it belongs to abandoned! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Last year, we assembled here in the same place that Mr. Pensionistenverband-Chief Blecha said: Well, what we're getting right now, that's a couple of filzpatchen, but not anymore! [[Abg. Strache: The Minister was responsible for Filzpatschen!]] Federal Minister Buchinger, maybe have She's got a little bit more to add to it so that you can at least ease the social cold, because just as you've conducted the first negotiations, I'm not convinced that there's more going on. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen – specifically addressed to the ÖVP – do not do one thing: Make She really does not make the same mistake again – and especially addressed to the colleague Fuhrmann, who is unfortunately once again not in the hall – that you are creating a generation conflict in the context of the pension debate or break off the fence! That's why I'm urgently looking for you! It's just unscrupulous. What Mr Molterer, Vice-Chancellor, too, gave of himself to this subject area, is also to be rejected. It is easy to say, if you want or want to have a pensioner price index, you have to buy something like that for other sectors at the same time. Former National Council President Khol made this very clear and said: On the one hand, the figures are scientifically unattended and on the other hand, this has nothing to do with the population groups themselves, but with the types of activity; and there are now four in Austria. And that's exactly what the pensions include, ladies and gentlemen. Thus, the pension price index cannot be compared with possible own indices for population groups, for example for young people. We should stick to this in a serious way. If, in the previous year, the then Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany has already said, on the occasion of the GÖD Congress, that there should be no more gifts for the generation of seniors, and therefore no more than under the inflation rate, the pensioners should be fed off again and should then rejoice for this, then one must say: Please note that pensioners do not need gifts from you! We want justice, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Strache: What they deserve!]] They have paid for 40 or 45 years in a tax pot – and that is why they have deserved to continue to do so in all these current costs measures, which have been implemented accordingly. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Not just “Thank you, ” but what they did!]] In order to ensure that a little of this fee can also be made available, I would like to make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Take your heart, Federal Minister Buchinger! Let your social veins come out and agree to our request! The people in Austria will thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e12941	The motion for a resolution which has just been put forward is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e13002	The next speaker is Mr Dobnigg. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e13024	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing before: From the SPÖ we take the concerns of the people and especially of the older generation very, very seriously – and that has been many, many years and decades. This is also quite clear and evidenceable and is contrary to the actual political actions of that party, which today has made this urgent request. You from the FPÖ – and the colleagues of the BZÖ can also feel addressed – write the following in press releases or you hear it in the debates – I quote –: “The pensioners have long enough been scrapped.” Unfortunately, I agree with you that 100%. But the question is: Who put the government from 2000 to 2006? They were just the ones who very much burdened the older generation in Austria and also the people in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] They have also taken the term “social confidence ” into account. Especially you, who stand there today and want to help people, as you say, have burdened people so that they are below the poverty line. The purchasing power has fallen. The current government under Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer and Social Minister Buchinger has already begun to repair this damage in the first weeks, months of their government work. Above all, it is about creating a minimum guarantee for the people of Austria. This raised the minimum pension above the poverty threshold. The compensation recipients now receive 726 € per month. [[Abg. Oils: That's below the poverty threshold!]] We've heard it today, too. Covering the recipe fee with 2% of net income as well as minimum security are next important and above all social steps. We from SPÖ have repeatedly been committed to pension increases over the inflation rate in recent years, but you – I would like to write that in the main book of you from FPÖ and BZÖ, but also the ÖVP at that time – have always been opposed. The result, of course, was that the purchasing power, especially the older generation, has fallen very much. As a senior speaker of the SPÖ, it is of course a special concern for me that those people who have built up our Austria, our homeland after the Second World War, under great hardships and many, many burdens, also get their fair share in the current economic upturn. And the fact that this government is negotiating with senior representatives on pension increases clearly shows that this government really takes the concerns of the older generation very seriously. In a today's press release by Karl Blecha, one reads about these pension negotiations – I quote –: “Blecha praises the very good climate.” – It also says in this release: “The PVÖ President believes that it is ‘a novum that cannot be estimated to be high enough’ that the government has been negotiating the pension adjustment with the senior representatives for the first time for seven years.” [[Members of the SPÖ look – confirming the statements quoted by the speaker by a nick – towards ÖVP.]] And this shows the difference between the previous governments: that they not only worked populistly, but then passed over it – and we really negotiate and discuss with people. I am deeply convinced that the negotiations that have just begun will also lead to a good outcome for our older generation. Federal Minister Buchinger has always and even today stated that he wants a higher adjustment for the smaller and medium-sized pensions, beyond the 1.7 percent set by the Pension Commission. He knows very well, of course, as well as our Federal Chancellor, that pensioners and middle pensioners are particularly affected by price increases, especially in terms of housing and basic food. Therefore, these people have not only deserved a stronger pension increase, but they need it urgently. This government will also decide on this stronger pension increase, and these people will receive their corresponding share for the benefit of their further life, their further existence.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e13081	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Aubauer with 9 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e13103	Madam President. High house! Mr. Klubobmann, if I listen to you like this, I ask myself: Which country are you talking about? [[Abg. Street: From Austria! – You live in Hietzing!]] Are you talking about our Austria? [[Abg. Strache: They live in Hietzing and get nothing from poverty! That's probably the background! You don't know what poverty means!]] True is: Our country is not only very beautiful and worth living, it is also economically very good there. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: In Döbling and Hietzing you get nothing from poverty!]] Let's stick to the facts. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Where do you live? Do you live in Hietzing – or in favorites or in Ottakring?]] The OECD confirms Austria a high standard of living, low poverty, high employment. Austria has its budget under control. Austria has one of the lowest unemployment rates in the EU. Economic growth has been significantly above the EU average for the past five years. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: We are not at the G7 or G8 summit!]] This year's growth is expected to be 3.5 percent; the list of economic success data is long. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: But there the applause is thin with the ÖVP! – The ÖVP must be more motivated by applause!]] Why is that so important? Why are economic successes so important? Does that help a poor man? – It is clear that we can only distribute what we all work together. And this, Mr. Klubobmann Strache, is not, as you say, “neoliberal nonsense”, but that is what the house mind tells us: We can only distribute what we are working on! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: Just don't divide it! You're not distributing it! You reduce it to a few percent! You should distribute it!]] And we're distributing it, too, Mr. Klubobmann. But You're right: There are arms, and every poor one is too much. But there are also successes here, in the fight against poverty: The poverty risk rate has decreased by 0.9 percent over the last two years. This is not just such a nebulous number, but it is about 34,000 people who have been given the way out of poverty. – You see, our social network works, and it's still getting closer. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: But this is mainly the SPÖ's merit!]] Mr Klubobmann Strache, you referred to the elderly in particular. – Older people need respect, appreciation and also the help of society. [[Abg. Strache: But not just a warm handshake!]] [[Abg. Strache: Not only a warm handshake, but also...!]] But what they need most, these are statements that make them afraid and insecure! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Strache: If pensioners do not receive a pensioner price index, it is a warm handshake! A warm handshake is too little!]] It's right: Heating, electricity, food have become enormously more expensive, and this weight of the price also affects pensioners. Some don't know how he/she gets over the rounds this winter. But the question is: How do we deal with these concerns? Do we have uncertainty – or do we want to take people’s fears? Very concrete: No one needs to worry about his pension. Pensions are guaranteed for the next and for the coming years, also thanks to the government Wolfgang Schüssel. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oils: You're still on the government! – “Thanks to the government Wolfgang Schüssel”, I think that’s great!]] Secondly, To pay off the price – very important! – there must be a fair and fair increase in pension for 2008. That is absolutely necessary. But my position, my colleague: Let us wait for the negotiations with Mr Bundeskanzler and Mr Vice-Chancellor. I am convinced that the representatives of the Council of Seniors – at least the representatives of more than 2 million pensioners – will negotiate a fair and very fair solution. And what makes me so confident? – Faith You me, I've seen the pensioners in action: There are no harder fighters for the seniors than the pensioners, than Andreas Khol. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Khol and Blecha!]] Third point: Care and care. – Here too, we want to give security, namely: Whoever wants care in his own four walls, we also want to allow them. Therefore: The People's Party calls for the so-called amnesty regime to be extended. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Oh, oh!]] There's an acute need for action. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: That's bad!]] ==References== December, Mr. Klubobmann Cap, it's too late. [[Abg. Straw: Extending the illegality now, isn't it?]] That's where the amnesty ends for foreign caretakers. [[Abg. Street: Extend, extend, extend the illegality!]] In dozens of conversations, those affected told me they don't know how to deal with the new legal models now. The models are too expensive, and they are too complicated, Mr Minister. Until there are better solutions here, the amnesty must be extended. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: But not all of them voted in applause!]] We are making a request today because this is also the last opportunity to prevent the system from going out. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Not everyone applauded!]] Therefore, my appeal to All of you here in the House, my appeal, Minister: Let us jointly extend the amnesty scheme for foreign caretakers by one year, and thus make it safe for people! – This is not necessary, Mr Strache. [[Abg. Strache: By the year 2200 likely!]] [[Abg. Street: Until the year 2200!]] We create security for people who need care and care! And here, too, I'm trying to help you, instead of being insecure! - Thank you. [[Abg. Kickl: We put the Arizona into a nursing training, then we have two flies with one flap!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e13477	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger, who spoke for 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e13498	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Klubobmann Strache, I hope you're fine. - Sure. [[Abg. Strache: What are the qualities of endearment, Mr. Deputies?]] I was really scared when I read that on the request there is no longer the “HC strache”, but the “KO strache”. [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] I thought that this must mean a little more than just the shortened indication that you are also Clubobmann. That was the first problem I had with this request from the liberals. – I’m also in favour and I think it’s good that you want to discuss poverty, discuss it, just: It was not really successful, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. You will explain this to us, Mr Deputies.]] You know why? [[Abg. That's exactly what you're going to tell us, Mr. Deputies,...!]] Yeah, I'm trying to explain. I'm really trying to justify it very seriously, why it is. [[Abg. Strache:... where you are the representatives of the social media of Austria!]] Why this is so, Mr Klubobmann Strache, is related to the fact that you use numbers that do not vote. - Point one. Point two: Because you make a claim – that is the request in the explanatory statement – which, if you really take it so seriously, is a linear increase for all pensions by 2.6 percent, which is the most favourable to those who have the highest pensions. Do you really want, Mr Klubobmann Strache, that the Magistrate Director, of which in Salz-burg [[Abg. Strache: Continue reading the application!]] City has just been found to receive 13 000 € pension, a month to receive 338 € more pension? [[Abg. Strache: Read the request further: The bottom referees 50 €!]] [[Abg. Street: The bottom at least 50 €! – You have not read the request to the end!]] Is that the meaning of your pension scheme? [[Abg. Strache: If someone has done something, he deserves something too!]] Does it have anything to do with poverty reduction, adding €338 to that at €13 000? - That's where you say "yes"?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Street: Yes – if the bottom...!]] [[Abg. Street: If the bottom gets at least 50 €! Of course!]] No, I figured it out. 2.6% Pension increase means €13 000 gross-pension €338 more! – If you can afford this and want it for the Republic, this is your opinion, but it has nothing to do with poverty reduction. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Strache: These pensioners have done this and deserved it! And for the lower one you have to have the poverty limit...!]] You're saying the magistrate director did that, he deserves it? – I can tell you about the debates in Salzburg: All over Salzburg is not only of the opinion that the Magistrates Director should not have a pension of €13 000, but also that the politicians who have shown up should not necessarily have the high political board they wish to have. [[Abg. Street: They have 13 000 €? - Where do you live?]] [[Abg. Street: Which magistrate director has 13 000 €?]] And you are therefore coming and defending this system?! - That's absurd! The fight against poverty, Mr Klubobmann, has absolutely nothing to do with this! It's like black to white. I'm sorry! [[Abg. Stache: The minimum increase for minimum pensioners is in the request that you hide there!]] Second point, Mr Klubobmann: They say – and this is already grammatically wrong, but this is not new that this is a problem with German – that “a stranger of the solidarity community costs 2 300 euros annually”. [[Abg. Strache: What's going on?]] [[Abg. Strache: What's going on?]] Grammatically, it would have to be called: A stranger costs the Solidargemeinschaft 2 300 € annually. – And then the question still has to be asked: How did you get this idea? [[Abg. Slight: Social experts! – Read in the press!]] How do you get the idea that a stranger costs the solidarity community €2,300? [[Abg. That's what social experts say!]] That's invented numbers! Don't come with me with the press article! I know it inside and outside, and I have also read the underlying figures. [[Abg. You don't want to take note of that, I'm clear!]] Thirdly, Mr Klubobmann Strache – and there will be real problems as you expect. That's what you're writing: “For Switzerland, it was calculated that 80 percent of social benefits must be spent on strangers.” This sentence is fundamentally wrong, and it is really hateful. This sentence is hesitant! [[Abg. Street: To read!]] I'll tell you why. [[Abg. Street: To read!]] – Of course, I tried to make myself aware: Where does that come from? – In the search for sources, I come to the following: Do you know how you have the sentence? – From BZÖ, from a press release! [[Cheerfulness with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] It says inside that Mr. Westenthaler says... [[Abg. Street: Swiss newspapers! “Zuricher”!]] [[Abg. Strache: You probably never read the “Zuricher Zeitung” or you wouldn’t soften such a nonsense!]] Quote Westenthaler: "For foreign countries, social benefits are already separated between nationals and foreigners. In Switzerland, 80 percent of all social benefits are paid to foreigners,” says Klubobmann Westenthaler. [[Abg. Strache: You are studying at BZÖ, not at the “Zuricher”!]] Only: That neither the Westenthaler nor you can grammar can, we have already heard, but that you cannot read, I refuse to take note of it, Mr Klubobmann Strache, because in the Swiss sources is also... [[Abg. Street: If you don’t read “Zuricher Zeitung”, that’s your problem!]] [[Abg. Strache: Look at the Swiss newspapers!]] Of course, I'll explain it to you now. [[Abg. That's it!]] First of all, “80 percent of all social benefits” are, of course, inappropriate. [[Abg. That's what it says, Mr. Teacher.]] This can only be an impotence, because in Switzerland, too, pensions are included in the social benefits. They're not inside, of course! This would mean that the 1.5 million strangers, who actually exist in Switzerland, account for 80 percent of all pension benefits. [[Abg. Strache: That's not what it means!]] What do you think about what's going on in Switzerland? – That’s completely absurd! [[Abg. Strache: That's not what it means! – That’s your absurd consideration again!]] ‘80 per cent of all social benefits’ can therefore only be called, or meant by: 80 percent of all social assistance benefits. - Did you mean that? [[Abg. That's right!]] Yeah? – But that’s wrong, Mr. Klubobmann. [[Abg. That's right!]] [[Cheerfulness with Greens and SPÖ.]] It is 43 percent, and I can also mention the sources: Statistics Switzerland. – 43 percent of social assistance is consumed by foreigners if you wish. [[Abg. Rosary: That's crazy!]] And now I'm telling you something about this 43 percent, which is double anyway. – You should also include Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler in order to have the figures at least right next time. – I can tell you something about these figures 20 percent of all residents of Switzerland are foreigners – in principle a higher proportion of foreigners than in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You must be grateful for information!]] 43% of social assistance workers are foreigners. How many are these? - 90,000 people. 220,000 people in Switzerland receive social assistance, of which 43 percent are foreigners. And the report – I don't need to look into it at all, I can quote it externally – says below: The double share among foreigners is explained by the fact that poverty risk is higher among foreigners. Well, obviously this is higher, because when people come here or come to Switzerland, they start with low entry salaries. [[Abg. Yeah! And if you add the migration background now, you get 80 percent!]] Therefore, if they are unemployed – and if they even insist that they are entitled to this benefit, which is not so easy for foreigners and foreigners in both countries – they may be entitled to social assistance. [[Abg. Strache: There are some abuses! There are some!]] And they deserved it as much as the Swiss and Austrian nationals, because they also work in this country and have a right to stay! Let us not start again the debate which you obviously can never stop trying to distinguish between foreigners and foreigners when it comes to simple bread! That's not where the music plays with us, I'm telling you, Mr. Klubob-man. – On the other topic, the question of distribution between the rich and the poor, you would have our ear. But there you have said before, no, you are in favour of receiving with the €13 000 also its 2.6 percent. [[Abg. Strache: No, you have not read the request to the end! It is mainly about the lower pensioners, who are to receive at least € 50!]] I'll tell you: This must be discussed with the same authority, including the pensioners. I think it is good that Mr. Khol and Mr. Blecha are also working for the simple pensioners. Only: If they demand a linear pension increase for all – 2.1 percent for all – then I always hear in principle that this also concerns their own pensions. And they are not small, neither by Mr. Khol, nor by Mr. Blecha. [[Abg. Strache: That's why we also demand at least 50 €! At least 50 € per month! – But don’t read that far!]] I am not here to speak a pension increase for those who have the floor of €5,000, €6,000, or €13 000, but to speak for those who have a €1,000 or less pension, and they have earned a strong pension increase. [[Abg. Street: They're in the request!]] [[Abg. Street: They're in the request!]] – Let me talk too! They've been on it anyway. That is why I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] 45,42 € – that’s fair, I think: these pensions, which are above the ASVG maximum pension, will also be increased. But €338, as you demand, has nothing to do with justice and distribution justice at all. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, Mr Federal Minister – you do not get away with it either! – and, finally, to the address of the government parties: What we expect from you is that you comment on what a pension increase the pensioners should have. And so far I have not heard anything from the SPÖ or the ÖVP, nor from the Federal Minister. A concrete number, please!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14133	The next speaker was Mrs Haubner, speaking for a term of 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14154	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! According to Mr Oellinger's teaching and knowledge, I think we should return to the facts. [[Abg. Haidlmayr: Right - knowing, not “ best - knowing ”!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That hurts you when it's true!]] No, no, no, But I say: No one of us here needs to play at the speaker's desk so presumptuously. [[In the case of the BZÖ, as well as the members of the FPÖ.]] I think that here everyone has one opinion to represent, but not constantly to teach the other. – I say that to you as a teacher. [[Abg. Oils: I don't have to listen to untruths all the time!]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Avoiding poverty is, as I believe, an issue that every government, every Parliament, has to deal with as a very important issue. Dear Minister, let's also leave the church in the village a little: As you described earlier, Federal Minister Buchinger, one could gain the impression that nothing had been done to avoid poverty for six years, but now, since the Social Democrats have been in the government, the great prosperity has broken out. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Yes, exactly!]] Mr Buchinger, I would now like to close your obvious memory gaps a little and tell you: We from BZÖ and ÖVP have put the pensions on safe legs and have set the course right with the so-called hackler rule for those who especially need it – those are the women, those are the ones who have worked long and hard. We have increased care money at least once between 2000 and 2006 – even if it is always too little – and we have also introduced the disabled billions to mention just a few examples. [[Call the SPÖ:And the passport fees and the vignette fee...!]] In any case, these were contributions to the fight against poverty. Since – I also see this positively – you mention the cover of the recipe fees: Forget or hide You do not want to increase health insurance contributions at the same time! There too you should stick to the truth! If you, Federal Minister Buchinger, say that the compensatory allowances have been increased by this government in 2007, I may add: It was an agreement of the whole Parliament – and the government in 2006 that brought it in was another one. One issue that has not been expressed in the whole debate today is that this government – let me say that – is one that never agrees, which always argues, which always breaks promises, but one that you agree on, namely, when it comes to the burden on the population. [[Abg. Oillinger: But you weren't bad either!]] [[BZÖ's condolences.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we have a good economy in Austria, we have good economic data, and we also have sprinkling tax revenues – and yet people are affected by a massive wave of inflation and stress. Just think of the cost of energy, think of the fuel prices, think of the expensive living! There are things in there where you have to say: As this government is guilty because it has increased its mineral tax, it has increased health insurance contributions, the care allowance has really been reduced by not increasing it so far. Furthermore, there is less child money for different models as a whole – and of these, the families, the women, the micro-earners are affected. The AK has calculated: The cost of living per month increased by €290! 290 € the Austrian families now need more! And I'm wondering, Where is the much - praised “social warmth ” of this government? You, Minister Buchinger, said that the social system must be adapted to the changed situation. Therefore, my question – now the time would come, we have a changed situation – is: Where is the cost compensation of this government, where are the funds used specifically where they need people for general care? I am thinking only of the Federal Republic of Carinthia. The head of the state of Carinthia is being negotiated with the parties on how to ensure the cost-equilibrium for the people of that state. Or: We from the BZÖ in Upper Austria have submitted the request that, when it comes to the proceeds of the partial privatisation of Energie AG, there will be a Family Future Fund, a Family Future Fund with the corresponding measures, so that families will be relieved and children's poverty can be resisted. Since, I think, one could have been able to benefit from this increase in tax revenue already now, so that it can be discharged immediately. Mr. Bundeskanzler Gusenbauer, who is now no longer there, has – I remember – on 20 October. August 2006 said: If the SPÖ is in the government, then the middle class is immediately relieved by €500 per year and the lower incomes with a doubling of the negative tax. – So here you could set an example and say: We do something about these charges and now make a tax relief package! If you, Federal Minister Buchinger – which is basically right – demand good pay statements and speak of 4 percent, I would already expect to hear from a social minister that taxes are at the same time reduced. What if someone gets more salary if the taxes on it are so high that he finally has nothing in his pocket? Therefore, from the BZÖ we have introduced a discharge package to reduce wage and income tax, to abolish... [[Abg. Riepl: Why didn't you lower taxes in the last tax reform where you were in the government?]] . We have made a major tax reform, Mr Riepl, which you have not done at all, we have signed a discharge package for the abolition of overtime taxation, for the replacement of the travel costs of the commuters, but also for a reduction in the costs of children. [[Abg. Riepl: For the Great, but not for the Little!]] A second example I would like to mention: A group that is very at risk of poverty – I have said it here in the House more often – are those women who are over 60 years old who do not have their own pension, because they have received too little time in the past due to their family work for their own pension. There is still our demand, and we will not loosen the possibility of creating a suitable opportunity for mothers to introduce a mother's allowance or a mother's pension, in order to also have an effective remedy against old age poverty. We are also committed to this generation. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] A third point – this has already been made by other speakers today – are the pensions. I would like to say: In recent years we have secured pensions in such a way that everyone will receive a pension in the future. [[Abg. Riepl: Abbreviated them! Massively shortened!]] I think that was a right and good way, because you can't always promise anything to everyone and everyone. For the first time in 2006, we took the inflation rate as the basis for the increase in pensions, which is 95 percent of pensioners. We have also - and this is not my bill, but it is black on white also found in the pension commission a few weeks ago - increased the compensation allowances exceptionally by 15 percent between the years 2000 and 2006. So there too we have set the course right. That is why I say that even now an extraordinary increase in pensions is necessary, and my colleague Dolinschek, who is the next speaker, will also make an appropriate request from our side. My speaking time is going, I see the end. I would also like to say a few things about care, but we will certainly have many more opportunities to discuss this area. I have only shown here by a few examples how necessary it is not only to talk about social warmth, but also to make social warmth felt for people. And I expect that from this government!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14326	First of all, I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ollinger is sufficiently supported, properly implemented, and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14399	Next, I give the floor to Mr Kickl for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14421	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! It's a shame that Mr. Oellinger left the room from the Greens, the "Superintendents" of the Oillingers. I really would have liked to ask him about this article that he spoke of and that he thought he knew him “in- and externally” whether he could give me the best thing in this article. But if he has already taken the flight, I will at least give him the opportunity to read in the second column that 80 percent of social assistance to foreigners, asylum seekers and to people who have recently been resident is to be read in this "press" article, which is admitted to the "world week". – So much about the situation in Switzerland, and so much about Mr Ollinger's ability to read. He can obviously read, but he doesn't make sense. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! We from the Freedom Party strive to help, as a social home party – and this claim we raise – above all the SPÖ in this House a little on social policy. But somehow I don't get the feeling that we're "blowing in" in a very, very cold oven, and that there's no longer much to see from a red glow or even from a fire, but that we're looking at the black ashes. As a matter of fact, there are too many things that confirm this. I wonder what self-glorification one is producing here and after a few months – after all the cureless battles that you have had, where you still have time and nothings – a world economic wonder is attaching to the flags. – But this is just the one side of the medal. Secondly, however, You then come out here, make a description of the misery and give out clear statements of intent for the best, as we have known from recent years, even decades. There's the sheer going apart, because: If you are already able to drive the economy around the world, as you said, then you should not really have a problem with this little poverty in Austria. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the situation for the Austrians is very, very serious – and is becoming more and more serious for many people. For Christmas, for example, people – for example, multi-child families, small incomes, people with atypical employment relationships – will unfortunately have to ask themselves the question of whether they should use the little money they have to put a feast on the table – or of putting something under the Christian tree, which, by the way, has become more expensive. Everything, really everything gets more expensive! Mr Buchinger, now I do not ask you - I know that would be a bit too much - to have an impact on the world economy, even if you do trust yourself. And I don't want you to stop speculation business, speculation transactions that cause us to have to do with price developments in oil, which have truly grown – and on which, in turn, those who hit it hard at all, are over-proportionally hard hit. [[Abg. Donabauer is at the government bank and talks with Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger.]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: (based on it) But he could listen at least once!]] [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Mrs Aubauer does not belong to this; we all know that anyway. What we, Federal Minister Buchinger, require of you is the completion of your homework! That's the term that's right here. – The Federal Minister does not listen. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: But that's where he should listen! This is a prepotence of the same!]] [[Federal Minister Buchinger is still speaking to the Abg. Donabauer.]] He doesn't need that, he believes, as so many here seem to be inside. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] You should have done the homework, Mr. Federal Minister, and your fellow fighters – otherwise your colleagues in the government can't be described; these are just more co-controversies. That's the least and that's the minimum you have to do! Mr Sozialminister, it is clear: You would have to hop up and down in front of loud anger when you see that the biggest profiter is the Minister of Finance, for example, in the field of petrol price increase and energy cost increase. The Minister of Finance collects billions – unexpected – of surplus incomes, these become so to speak, but does not use them to combat the social misery that you, Mr Sozialminister, described earlier in detail! [[Abg. Amon: But not for yourself!]] That is why I would like to ask you: What's the matter with you, Mr. Social Minister? That would be homework to relieve people in Austria, homework that would be carried out. But instead of that, Minister Buchinger – like this whole federal government – requires you to take a course with which you will also burden the drivers, the commuters who already think at these prices no longer have petrol or diesel, but expensive motor oil, and so to speak make them scapegoats of this Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a course we strictly reject! That is why, in order to help you get a little bit on the jumps, I also make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] That would be a point of interest, Mr Minister. I would remind you, Minister Buchinger, that you are also Minister for Consumer Protection. Think of the people who are most badly affected by this price-lawin! You have obviously forgotten these – probably due to your “duration” with your government. You'd be responsible for these people, Minister. You have to drive in there once; and there are many examples where you can do something: at the post office, for example, where jobs are being mined, and still no-one else. One post office after another locks up. Quality is falling, but prices are continuing to rise! Where is there such a thing? Who's paying for that? And who meets this disproportionate? There, Mr. Minister, you have to "get in" one day. You would have to go into this bank cartel once, where you have to make every “Kramuri” yourself there, for example, in the stamping machine – but at the same time the fees go up into the immeasurable! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And now I don't even talk about the old people being completely overwhelmed with it. Let's see what it looks like with the transfer costs in the supposedly advanced European Union: If you pay from one bank to the next by means of a payment card, you pay incredibly much in transfer fees compared to the sums being moved there! You, Federal Minister Buchinger, are the Minister of Consumer Protection, and you could, for example, “go in” in the area of home administration costs for the so-called "commons" or, for example, with energy suppliers, where adventurous things are happening – and where, in principle, antitrust is being carried out and excavated! That's the truth! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we see here is not one-time exceptions, but this is a disastrous trend, as we have basically experienced since Austria's accession to the EU and especially since the introduction of the euro: a social gap that has grown! And if you are trying to achieve an improvement in this wrong situation with homeopathic doses – or with placebos at all – I can only tell you: You're on the road all the way! This, ladies and gentlemen, is a distortion of social justice and has nothing at all to do with social justice, as we liberals understand it. [[Abg. Amon: No applause?- Oh, my God!]] In any case, it is interesting: If Austria is one of the richest and richest countries – as we have heard it again today – of course, the question of how this wealth is distributed. That is a very, very central question. At present we know that there is very little up there and down there very little and that many very little and few have very much. This can be put to the fore by analyzing the current situation. – But you can’t just find yourself! Whether you like it or not: It is also a question of the distribution right to deal with the question of access to social wells, namely, on the part of those who are not Austrian citizens, but who are very likely to use this access to our social wells. And I also say: not on average, not below-average, but above-average. We know this, even on the basis of those figures that you, Mr Federal Minister, and your colleagues, must so to speak, “detail” because you refuse the publication of a study that would finally bring cost-effectiveness to this area. If you, Federal Minister Buchinger, claim to be on the go and do everything possible to make it better and better, I must stop you – and this also shows how we have discussed this recently in the debate on the Green Paper – and again the European Union in the background: The way goes in the wrong direction! And it's going in the wrong direction everywhere! For example, the seasonal concept is softened. You're saying you're doing that, but you're really gonna get rid of the seasonal kidneys. They make the pots accessible by making the labour market accessible to atypical workers. That's 5,000. Mr Bartenstein, however, spoke of only 900 atypical employees, but his State Secretary knows better. You know: When you open the labour market, you also open the social pots! No, no, no, no, The organized towing bands will be happy because they can increase the prices for those who want to bring them to Austria. And that's how it goes on a tour. Your “Program”, Mr Buchinger, at the end of the day, is to make great announcements – and to bow to the yoke of the ÖVP, which, of course, represents its own interests of economic policy, which is quite legitimate for a lobbyist party. That's all right, just: The fact that you, Mr Social Minister, are making all of this happen is something that must be seen with quite a surprise! There is nothing to do with this, Mr Social Minister, if you come with “words” such as “Flexicurity” et cetera, which only serves to blur things. The journey basically goes in a very clear direction: The workers under this federal government are increasingly on the wheels – and the employers can be pleased that there is such a clever social democracy that can all be liked. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Mr Buchinger, you have an excellent opportunity today to take one step or another in the right direction. Give yourself a back once and put in here what you always announce, actually, before the year 2010, here and today! They would have the chance to prove that the opposite of social asocial is – and not socialist – as it has looked so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14589	The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl has been properly put in place, sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14656	The next speaker was Mrs Rudas. Five minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14688	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Kickl, due to the speed of your speech, it was not easy to follow you there, but, as far as I understand you, you criticise Social Minister Buchinger that he has the vision of eliminating poverty in the world; They make fun of it and criticize it. – What do you think, Mr Kickl, is the task of a Social Minister? That's exactly what I'm doing! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] In contrast, your request: Where are your visions and ideas, where are the proposals? [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] In your application, you write of a “redesign of the social state”. Where is it?! – In reality exists Your request from Blablablabla, between them a short time “foreigner” – and then again Blablablabla! Nothing else! No concrete proposal, which is a pity, because it is actually a very interesting, exciting and particularly important issue, especially for my generation, because young people – and that was probably the worst thing you, you and you in the old government have done to us boys – have been put to confidence in politics. [[the speaker points towards ÖVP, BZÖ and FPÖ lines]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Trust in politics has taken people like BAWAG!]] Especially my generation believes less and less in the social state, has lost more and more confidence in a state pension... – This is the “neoliberal weapon” to dispossess politics. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: What do you say to Helmut Elsner and friends and the union?- Oh, my God!]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, have participated! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New calls to the FPÖ.]] To calm you – I have a task for all of us –: Let us fight again for the trust of young people! Stop with some populist requests where politicians are trying to clean themselves up, as it were, either it's the foreigners or it's missing money! Let us regain the confidence of the boys that the boys believe in a social state, because that needs a living democracy! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You'll start right now!]] We have to stand on our social state and on the principle of solidarity, and I give you a good example of what a change of course is really doing. We have repeatedly pointed out six years in the opposition that although Austria is Europe's fourth-richest country, poverty is rising and what poverty means. It was never reported, however, that it was never talked about and discussed. But after a few weeks of a Social Democratic Social Minister, exactly the subject was discussed, it became a priority, namely poverty reduction, and that is what I call change of course! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. Wheeler.]] For the first time in six years, youth unemployment has declined. We have a training guarantee, and we still do not have populist Blabla, but employment policy is the best way to combat poverty. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You have no idea!]] The topic of pensions. Here again, the request: Blablablabla, a short time “Ausländer”, Blablablabla. – Unfortunately! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: You should read the application once!]] And there is often not much better than the ÖVP, and I do not expressly mean you, Mrs Aubauer. We agree on many questions, but ask your colleague, Fuhrmann! Although this does not blame foreigners for the fact that we can no longer finance pensions, it blames the elderly, in the way: What will you be healthier and older?- Oh, my God! – That can't be the answer either. Especially my generation wants her parent and grandparents to be well cared for. And here I say quite openly, so that there is no misunderstanding: When some young people try to bring about a generation conflict, it is not responsible. My generation – I certainly speak for 90 percent of my generation – solidifies with the pensioners of today how the pensioners of today solidify themselves with those of tomorrow. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The main factors for the financial viability of pension schemes are overall economic development, growth, labour productivity and employment. They determine the scope for social policy funding. It hurts the panic of the ÖVP, of some ÖVP colleagues, I would like to say here. But certainly there are not generation conflicts here, and not immigration stop proposals like those of the FPÖ, but a social democratic policy, as we have seen in recent months. Once again to the request. It's a shame that we didn't get constructive proposals. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, yes, we have some!]] Decided to the request! – It’s a shame that you don’t fight with us against the neoliberal forces of depoliticization, so they steal a little from responsibility by saying: My God, we politicians have nothing to do with this, but foreigners are guilty that we have failed in government in recent years. This will be done now, because we Socialists and Social Democrats are committed to combating poverty and a fair distribution of the shared and a new culture of sharing, to a respectful relationship with people and to solidarity. In this sense, I would also like to see such a good social policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14850	The next speaker was Mr Amon. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14871	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Buchinger, in his statement, has made a number of points which, I believe, was very important, namely points which we have jointly defined and implemented in the government agreement. However, he has also taken away some points so to speak, which have still been made under the old government, such as the introduction of the minimum pension of € 726. I believe that this should be said in the light of the truth here, too, that this has been so determined by the old Federal Government. [[Abg. Ollinger: This is already under the poverty threshold!]] Because this is an attempt by force to disprove the six or seven years of the governments' bowl: I think one should also say goodbye to this children's company, because one could of course make it very easy and represent that, for example, the compensation allowance rate has been increased by a total of €100 in the six years under the Federal Chancellor's Schüssel, while in the six years preceding that, under the Social Democratic leadership, it was just €30. So this question could also be raised and then said polemically: Well, has this not been the better social policy, ladies and gentlemen? It's not that simple. I think the truth is in the middle. There is a constant effort to keep the social system fit. And if you want to keep the social system in place, then of course you have to question it here and there again, question it, reform it, rebuild it and develop it further. I really think that's important. That is why it is good that in future we will also be orienting the country's social assistance to this compensatory allowance directive. That's a right approach. I think it is good that we can finally implement the old ÖAAB requirement of a minimum wage. This is an important point, and I thank the social partners for doing so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] At the same time, however, I regret that not all professional groups are still involved. This is a number of professions where there are no economic reasons at all for not doing so. I remind you, Federal Minister, that the Government Convention states that, if this is not possible at the social partners level, it is necessary to think about a general collective agreement. That is why I really call on all professional groups, where this minimum wage is not yet available, to try to implement it as quickly as possible, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, as a means of combating poverty, you have of course also referred to the question of employment. I would already like to say that the labour market can never be seen separately from a European or a world economic situation. We had a recession in Europe between 2000 and 2006. Compared to other European states, the old government has also been extremely successful in combating unemployment. Otherwise, it would not be possible that Austria would always have been among the first two, three countries with the lowest unemployment. And I am glad that we were able to launch the trend change towards more employment in the spring of 2006. That was good, and it is also good that this development continues, because the best means of combating poverty is undoubtedly to have as many people as possible in full acquisition – no question at all, that is a common goal and a common task. You, Mr Federal Minister, also referred to the education system in the context of combating unemployment. I am right in saying that the education system is an essential point. But also here: The comparison makes us sure: We are also in the rate of youth unemployment, far behind for a very long time. Even under the great coalition, yes, I think, even in the time of the SPÖ/FPÖ coalition, we have always been among the first three countries in Europe with the lowest rates of youth unemployment. It is also a sign that our education system cannot be as bad as it is always presented, because it is also the responsibility of the education system to prepare young people for their later careers so that they can find a job and succeed in the working world. I think you should say that. To the request submitted here by the FPÖ: This is a source of xenophobia and foam in front of the mouth. I regret this because it makes a serious debate very, very difficult. But I would like to quote a sentence from it because it actually bites itself in the tail. [[Abg. Rosary: expression: not enough!]] On the second side – you can follow this up, that is quite interesting, Mrs Rosenkranz – it says: "An efficient social state would be a suitable means of combating poverty. Unfortunately, 13 percent of Austrians are at risk of poverty in the current system. Without social transfers and pensions, it would even be 42 percent." Thus, the social state cannot be that bad if, due to social transfers and pensions, instead of 42 percent, God is “only” – under quotations – 13 percent at risk of poverty. So he's not that bad. Don't talk all bad – and at least make a few constructive suggestions! I miss them in your urgent request. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I now come to the debate on the issue of pension increases, even there is an open word. Mr Buchinger, you have correctly presented the average increases in pensions among the governments of Schüssel, but this is not the full truth either, because we have not increased pensions on average and with a percentage in these years, but because we are rightly and thanks to low pensions have been stronger and higher pensions have been weaker. That is why, of course, the net loss is not true for many pensioners as you have described it. I also say: The comparison makes us sure. What happened under a red-green government in the Federal Republic of Germany at the same time? – In the Federal Republic of Germany, there has been no pension increase at all for six years! The pensioners have been removed the holiday allowance and the Christmas allowance, and the retirement age has been increased to 67 years. – The comparison makes us sure as well: The last few years were not as bad as they were trying to present. [[It was in favour of the ÖVP as well as of representatives of the BZÖ.]] The current debate on the increase in pensions. Pensioners always attach great importance to the fact that they are treated as social partners, and I understand this. They want to conduct these negotiations themselves, and I think there is no need to worry at all about the top bosses of pensioners, Blecha and Khol, Mrs Rudas. I believe that they are strong enough to speak for their group, that they know what is reasonable and what is not, and they will bring out a corresponding pension increase for pensioners – I expect it to be. That's all right, too. I would just like to say one more thing to Mr Strache, because he has tried here again to make the politicians – and thus himself – ready by saying that it is actually unheard of how politicians have been serving in the pension increases this summer. I would just like to recall – I have now looked at it myself, because I could not imagine that the increases amounted to over 1.7 percent, as now proposed by the Pension Commission for the elderly –: It was not over 1.7 percent, but 1.5 percent. That is also necessary to say here to stick to the truth, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14963	The next speaker is Mrs Mandak. Five minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e14985	Madam President. High house! Minister! When Mrs Rudas spoke earlier, there was an interlocutory call from the Free/BZÖ sides: Who wrote you this speech: the dad? - I don't think that's very funny. [[Cheerfulness at FPÖ and BZÖ.]] I find this unfair, I find it discriminatory and extremely inappropriate to a colleague who is doing excellent work. I think the one of you who said that should apologize to my colleague Rudas. [[It is in favour of Greens and SPÖ, as well as of representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] When I read this urgent request of the liberals, I have already felt as it did. You will again succeed very, very well in building up sectors, digging graves and distinguishing: One is the other. These are some of them out there and have no Austrian citizenship. Then there are those who stand on the edge. These are all those who have an Austrian citizenship but are not born here. And then there are us, Austrians! Make Between All Others They'll try these graves, and they'll try to kill their jaws. That is what I find so detestable in your policy: the policy of kerfing, hate-surgeoning, envy-producing, instead of making a constructive policy here. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] You used to talk a lot more about the “social scruples. ” It's clumsy now. Obviously, you have insisted that many of these so-called social blacks are your own voters. [[Abg. Kickl: That's incredible!]] [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: It is abominable to insult our voters!]] Now you have a full tube against the others who come from abroad, because at least they have no right to vote, and you cannot miss the votes. That's your way of making politics. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Excuse me!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] I'd like to give you an example. It has been shown that only about half of the persons are entitled to social assistance, half of it! This means that half of the people who could actually claim social assistance do not do so because they do not know because they are afraid because they are afraid to go to the office and put up with it. That is the reality, that is the far greater share than all those who misuse social assistance. There are, but to a far lesser extent, a tenth of the people who are entitled to social assistance. The last social report was first addressed to the social situation of migrants and Austrians. Maybe watch. You're looking at these numbers once, because: The social report comes to the following result with regard to the groups of migrants and now citizens – I quote it –: “In comparison to all those at risk of poverty, the share of social benefits in household income in both groups is below average.” – Average – and not above average! The Social Report also notes that a quarter of migrants are vulnerable to poverty, and tries to explain why this is so. As a reason for this, he points out, in part, the poor language skills of migrants, but also the fact that they get only poorly paid jobs, jobs that are very vulnerable to redundancies, so very unsafe jobs. Look You once: In the cleaning area, in the construction area, wherever there is dirt, where there is noise, where there are dangers, who is doing these works? – To a large number of migrants and migrants, or people of migrant origin, you accuse them of taking advantage of social benefits in Austria, while at the same time paying them. These are people who pay money in our social system and therefore also have a right to these social benefits. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] In contrast to you, we do not want a flat-rate pension increase, and we would like to raise the compensation rate at least to the level of the poverty risk threshold. This has been calculated and is at least € 771. We believe that this compensation directive is urgently raised, and 771 € are the lowest limit for it, Mr Minister – and not 750 €. That is why you are taking the step under the threat of poverty again. We will certainly not go along with it, but we demand this €771. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Since you believe that poverty should disappear in Austria, we hope very much for your agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15147	This motion for a resolution is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15224	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek, who spoke at 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15245	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mrs Mandak, the poverty prevention is, as I believe, a much too sensitive issue to be blind in the right eye. This topic is all about, and I believe that we should work to help the people concerned effectively: These are the long-term unemployed, these are unemployed, vulnerable people who work in the low-paid sector, single-time, part-time, single-earner families, where several people have to get a salary – for a single person often €1,200, but if you have to provide for two or more people with a salary, it becomes a bit happy – these are child-rich families, people with migration backgrounds. Federal Minister Buchinger, you said earlier – you mentioned figures – that immigrants contribute significantly to the gross domestic product, that they pay much more than they get in the pension. – I have to say: I am aware of figures that say that a maximum of 10 percent of the migrants who contribute to the gross domestic product. The rest is the family move, and there's no one doing anything about it. If this were the case, you would have to pay so much in our social system, then the health insurance companies, the social insurance institutions, would have to go over money and not have a deficit. – That doesn't really light me up! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] It is also widely known that with an e-card several persons benefit from benefits. It would be an interesting thing if you had this e-card like the check card driver's license with an image so that the social abuse would be pushed back. Mrs Rudas, if you have said that this Federal Government is finally presenting a poverty report, I must tell you: Read it! There has been a report every year. Here is the 2003/2004 report on the social situation. [[The speaker keeps a copy of it up to date.]] On more than 30 pages there are reports on the risk of poverty inside, on the wage rate, on the income rate and for the first time also a report on wealth. Wealth is not defined by income, but by wealth. – Also for reading after reading for you, because you have not been dealing with matter for as long as I think you are. But, unfortunately, there is no report from your government, because it is only prepared. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dr. Buchinger.]] – Of course, Minister of State! You have not been praised as the Federal Minister for so long, but the report that falls within your term of office will be drawn up only. – The one thing. On the other hand, that we are at risk in many areas, although the revenue in the economy is squeezing: In the last six years, we have created the conditions for it to go up with the economy and not go down the stream, as was the case before. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] In order to bring Austria back to the front, we had to remove the debts you caused in your responsibilities, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[Calls of the Abg. Csörgits.]] For an increase of 3.6 percent and for a single payment of 200 €: Mr. Federal Minister, you should not now make a major effort to promote tax reform or at least reduce it by 1. January 2008 gives; if not, half of this wage increase is already eaten up by the cold progression and then the one-time payment of €200 or €100, depending on how much someone deserves, half will be eaten. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Csörgits.]] – Of course, Mrs Csörgits! They're from the union. They have so far failed to ensure that there are collective agreements in all sectors. 1 000 € Minimum wage is far too little. We demand 1 300 €. Think about it! You need more and more people in the economy, and the overtime is still taxed. Overtime surcharges should be tax-free! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] [[New call of the abg. Csörgits.]] 20 to 25 hours overtime averages every employee per month, and these are tax-free. There are 1.9 million commuters. They should also reduce their travel costs to 100 percent. In times of flexicurity, mobility must be possible. The middle class is relieved in this area, because it contributes significantly to Austria's flourishing. Mrs Rudas, to return to your comments: We have responded responsibly to the foreseeable developments in pensions, in the field of economic and labour, in the budget, in the social structure and so on – not as in the Federal Republic of Germany, ruled by the Social Democrats at that time, where the retirement age has been increased. We acted with responsibility. Now also a word on pension increases. – I don’t think much of it when you talk about a pensioner index, because maybe someone comes up with the idea and makes a “woman index”. That's driving strange flowers. I can't do that. That's how it is. Then: A food index is a food index. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I fully understand that if you give a pensioner a fair pension, there is a pension increase, if possible, above 3 per cent, up to half the maximum contribution base, and in addition, makes a base amount and increases the compensation allowance rate to € 750. Mrs Rudas, you have also failed to pay attention to the following – Mr Federal Minister, I must also tell you –: From 2000 to 2006 we increased the compensation allowance rate from €626 by €100 to €726. That's it! That's 15.8 percent in these six years. You spoke of 8 percent earlier. And the pensions were 14.8 percent. So after all, you've increased the low pensions considerably. I shall therefore now make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I hope you will agree to this request, especially the Members of the Socialist Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15415	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Dolinschek has been properly tabled, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15472	Mrs Rosenkranz's next speech. Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15493	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We had also heard from a Green Member the word “detestable” in view of the fact that it has accused us of dividing and building up sectors. – I tend to do politics not with emotion, but with ratio. I think this is a solution-oriented approach. But in this case it is difficult for me, because you have then spoken on, and in this regard I would like to use the word “absorbed” now, in view of what you have then said, namely that it is our voters who represent the “social-smarots”. That's what you said. Now I have my basic members in front of my spiritual eye, and also people who say that you have elected us, I have in mind older rulers from Vienna who complain that they have really come to the fore in the community building, young boys who hardly hear a German word at the classroom, women who complain that they can no longer let their daughters come home alone in the evening, people who have really been put in the most distress by the states. Of course, that's not your environment. You are sitting here, acting self-righteous and – and I would like to say this clearly – because you really have powerful groups in the background, for example, the media, absolutely able to appreciate others. To do this, I have to tell you: Democracy is, in its essence, a variety of views and opinions, otherwise it would not be. [[Complaints with FPÖ and BZÖ.]] This includes and presupposes that those who have a different opinion see themselves as opponents with a different opinion – and not as one who pursues a reprehensible goal. That is why the political debate cannot be held rationally! We liberals, who in our history were very often in a minority in opposition, expect that another person has a different opinion. He has other interests – we have these interests. It is good if the interests then cross sometime and consider the general good. But you can't blame someone for having a different opinion. But you do it increasingly. You really sit here as the total – how did we say it when we were young? - establishment. You've forgotten everything you might have awarded you once. You're intolerant. You're scary if I can say so, and you're extremely self-righteous. [[In the case of the FPÖ, as well as the BZÖ Members.]] They have made this accusation – and since I have a little time, I would like to explain it – in relation to the fact that we do not let ourselves be treated differently by citizens and non-citizens. May I explain this quite soberly? – They are, as it were, internationalists. That's all yours. There's something like that. - It's not us! [[Abg. Olympians: Oh, God!]] You mean the category of nation, state, you don't care anymore. You want to overcome this, you strive with all your strength. We think this order is the order of a free world. We want people! We want nations! We want states – and that is why there are citizens for us too! A state without a citizen is not possible. Your opinion is different. I don't think it was successful. I also believe that you are not going through with this in the long run, because no matter when a supranational rule was established with iron fist, it was soon gone again. See Soviet Union, see Titos Yugoslavia! And, oh wonder, the peoples were back! – So I can trust that history will give us the right thing. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But still, you have this opinion that you should have. Only: Allow, let's get ours! Ours is rationally well-foundable – and not objectionable. We attach importance to the fact that we are seen in the same way. [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] Now a few words on the subject of “Poverty in Our State. ” We have heard the sentence very often today: Austria is one of the richest countries in the world, one of the richest countries in the EU! – It is! But Austria has one of the lowest birth rates in the world and, more recently, – and this is particularly worrying – also the least confession to the child. Then: One usually draws the other by itself: No children, no children's desire, and then the child's desire sinks, and then there are even fewer children. We're very bad at it. We are in the last place in Europe as far as the desire for children is concerned. So this is really a very dangerous development. Why is that so? – The demographics call this the “demographic paradox” – a very rich country and very few children – and then, of course, resolve it in their scientific statements: This is simply and simply because the developed social states are totally neglecting a group, and that is the people who raise children. Children are the safest way to poverty! And that is the case with us, for two reasons. One is that the social state has a "birth mistake": It does not take into account the benefits of those who raise children, but which the social state urgently needs. Keywords: Generational contract, charging; we all, you all know that. That is why it is urgently necessary to consider the family burden compensation as a burden compensation – far from being a support to families. This is a burden compensation, a highly incomplete by the way! The second reason is that the state itself makes average well-earned persons poor, so to speak, by taxing them beyond their ability to perform, when they have children, because of course, their performance is not only in terms of income, but of course also in terms of maintenance obligations. That is why I am submitting the following request to remedy these two cases. [[Quoted print version removed]] One word to France: There you can see that it is possible. France has achieved that it has a birth rate almost at the receiving level, including the original French population. No excuse. We can't, we'll do so much anyway! – That’s not true! What's the difference? – When in the late 1960s, in the early 1970s, the invasion of the birth into the whole of Europe took place, the French commissioned their Institute for Demography – they have something like that – to look at why this is happening and whether this trend is solidifying. They then said: Yes, it is now! These and those developments have led to the pill making it possible! Then the French government has taken a decision to do everything to ensure a birth rate that makes it clear that one generation needs to replace the other. That's how they responded! However, such a national effort has not taken place in us, but that must have been done for a long time!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15581	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled is properly tabled and sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15679	Mrs Königsberger-Ludwig is next spoken. 5 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15701	Madam President. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mrs Rosenkranz, perhaps you can listen to me very briefly, because I would like to take a few thoughts from my side to your statement of entry. I too tend to make a very rational policy. I also regard as not an aggressive person: neither in fact nor in the argumentation. And I am also used to working on compromises because I also work in the field of community policy. And I also prefer consensus rather than dissent. But I think, Mrs Rosenkranz, that it is also politically dissident in this House to express its dissatisfaction when almost every debate here in the House – and I have seen it since 2003 since I was allowed to work here in the House; and it is so! – a scapegoat is always sought by the liberals. I too, when I read your request, felt a terrible discomfort, where immediately on the first side of the scapegoat was found why there is poverty in Austria: It's the strangers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, this is not as easy as you represent it! It is not the strangers' fault that there is poverty in Austria. The causes are much more diverse. It is also important to find new ways to combat poverty. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] I am very sorry, colleagues from the Freedom Party, that you are always working with resentments, that you are always working with the fears of the people and that you do not find it too bad to find scapegoats and play people against each other even at a poverty debate. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] They instrumentalize people and always suggest to solve problems in Austria quite simply by saying: We do not want foreigners in Austria! – I really don't think that's all right. And to express this, one must also admit to the colleague of the Greens. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Kickl.]] Another thought about this is your request and also about the requests made by you in the course of the debate, where you are talking about social policy distribution, about combating poverty: If you are saying that no VAT should be required on basic foods and medicines, if you are talking about the maximum cost of petrol, I ask you: Where is the social policy steering effect? Where is there an anti-arming effect? - Nowhere! Then: This applies to you and to me and to the Director-General. It can't be! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Kickl.]] The fight against poverty needs much more. And I am very glad, Mr Kickl, that there is a man sitting behind me on the government bank, who is actually in favour of poverty reduction. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the FPÖ: Please!]] It's so, you can say what you want! You have to look at what SPÖ and the government partners are actually doing in the area of poverty control – instead of just polemizing and looking for scapegoats. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Not even the ÖVP applauds!]] [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: What did you do to the ÖVP that she didn't praise?]] I'll tell you, just listen to me! Even during the coalition negotiations, the SPÖ was a very important point in combating poverty. Ladies and gentlemen of the FPÖ, I must say to you now: You need new ways! Despite Austria's social policy achievements, which have been addressed more often today, it can be seen that 13 percent of the people in Austria are at risk of poverty. And that's why it takes new ways! We have to go new ways, and Federal Minister Buchinger stands for this. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] Now I call you a few points that have already been or will be done. First: It will ensure that a fair wage policy is implemented. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] There will be a minimum wage of € 1,000 – a first step in the right direction. I know this is just a small step, but a first step anyway. Secondly, Indeed, massive employment policies have been taken. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] The aim is full-time employment, which helps people the most to get out of poverty. That is why employment policy measures have to be started. Thirdly, Setting up labour market policies where the AMS looks more at quality than at quantity. That's where we're on a good way. Another very important step is to increase educational opportunities in Austria. The Social Democrats have been acting on this for a very long time. And the most important new way to combat poverty is the thoughtful and targeted minimum security. I am very confident that with all these measures we can actually fight poverty. Then: We on the part of social democracy – and also of the coalition partner, I think – actually stand for poverty reduction. We do not stand for alms policy with hardness funds, but we want to have a fair social state, a fair welfare state, where all people get the same opportunities!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15831	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit; Your group's remaining speaking time: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15852	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear FPÖ! – The social boundaries do not run between a Polish cleaning woman and an Austrian cleaning woman, nor do they run between a unemployed Turkish construction worker and an unemployed Austrian construction worker, nor do they run between a Serbian family and an Austrian family, but they run between those in this society who have something and those who have nothing. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Thank you for the official greeting!]] Take note of this! – It doesn't matter that you're incite groups that have little or nothing against each other. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Call:Yes, Mr Teacher]] With the figures you stand on the foot of the war – Mr Oellinger has already taught you this, I am almost inclined to say. They don't want to believe it. They say that 80 percent of social benefits in Switzerland are consumed by non-Swisss. If you don't believe this colleague Oellinger, maybe you believe it to your spiritual sister party in Switzerland, that's the freedom party of Switzerland, the right-wing counterpart to you. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: No, no! That's not us! They believe in the..., the SVP!]] Do you know what she complains about on her website? – It is complained that 43 percent of the social assistance recipients in Switzerland are foreigners. Look from the FPÖ at the side of your sister party, then you will see that the numbers you use are wrong – which does not change the fact that this Swiss party is ridiculous. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... Swiss People's Party!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] The second point in which you stand on the foot of war with figures is the question of the negative social balance of non-Austrians and non-Austrians. They overlook one thing: that in Austria all who earn less than €1,760 gross have a negative social balance – logically, because there is something like a redistribution to God. The distinction now between domestic and foreign countries is completely ‘in addition’. There is no difference between Austrians and non-Austrians! All those who earn less than €1,760 gross have a negative social balance and are therefore members of social benefits. In reality, this debate is about something quite different from the question of Austrians or non-Austrians. We are indeed facing a big problem: We are faced with the problem that in Austria the wage rate is falling, i.e. that the share of wages in national incomes is falling and the share of capital incomes in national incomes is increasing, because productivity gains are no longer passed on over wages, but are more distributed over a return on capital owners. [[Abg. Kickl: A problem too! A problem too!]] This leads to the fact that real net wages have not increased over the last ten years, and this also has a negative effect for us as social politicians that – as the social system is financed by additional labour costs and thus by wages – the funding base of the social system is reduced. If wages had increased proportionally to national income, today the income of social security contributions would be 15 percent or € 3 billion higher. – This is the real problem that needs to be tailored. That is what we as politicians need to discuss, and we need to find solutions to that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We don't need your envy! We do not have a financing problem either, but we have a distribution problem. [[Interim calls at the FPÖ]] The number of millionaires in Austria is growing faster than in Switzerland, yet 1 million Austrians are at risk of poverty. That is why we urgently need a package to remedy the problem. End with the tax gifts – keyword inheritance tax. Mr Sozialminister, we need a debate on broadening the funding base of social systems; wages alone will not do so in the long term. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... have nothing left to distribute!]] – We need a real minimum wage of €1,200, and we need a basic guarantee that deserves that name. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e15982	Mr Spindelberger has now come to speak. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16004	In fact, this is a sad day for me when we talk about the fact that there are 1 million people at risk of poverty in Austria, but on the other hand it also means that we are perfectly right by the SPÖ with our criticism, because we have always pointed out that in the fourth most rich country in Europe, the rich people are getting richer and poor people who need our help are getting poorer and poorer. Addressed to colleagues Dolinschek – you have conducted a lobby of policy over the past seven years –: I think you have missed out on the fact that we are talking about these vulnerable people today, because precisely in these last seven years under the ÖVP/FPÖ/BZÖ government, poverty has even doubled in Austria! You have to say that very clearly and clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the FPÖ.]] Therefore, when we address the issue of poverty reduction, we also need to talk about all its backgrounds – that is the most important thing we have to do – and this includes many topics. [[Abg. Dr. Graf:... BAWAG, union!]] – Foreigners are not guilty, but are subject areas, starting with the distribution of income between unemployment, the level of education and training, as well as employment and income. But we also need to talk about a fairer distribution within our prosperity society! – These are the real problems that we should address together, and which we will address thanks to a Minister of Social Affairs, Buchinger. I believe that we are also on the right track in the implementation of our government programme if, for example – Werner Amon has done it – I look at the social security paper “Work Market – Future 2010”. In this paper are really good content: There are measures such as the Youth Training Package, as well as a package for older workers, because we want those who are 56 to 60 years old to be more easily integrated into the labour market. We don't make it as easy as the FPÖ that we push everything on someone else and say: Foreigners are guilty of this problem! – This government will take over €1.3 billion over the next three years in order to address these identified problems. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner.]] The fact that some problems have already been addressed shows the coverage of recipe fees to 2%, as well as the massive fight against black entrepreneurship, which was also addressed. If Mr Klubobmann says that in the last few years the income shears have gone apart, then I give him the right to do so. – But it is not, as he has said, the euro as a ‘teuro’, nor is it the foreigner’s fault; it must also be said that the policy of the previous government bears the main responsibility. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner:... Increase in mineral oil tax... especially social!]] This is precisely why it is now being countered by a clear commitment to these €1,000 minimum incomes and the part-time workers, which is even more important to contribute to this, for more hours of work from 1st century onwards. They're going to have a 25 percent supplement. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Who raised the mineral oil tax... was that the SPÖ or was that us?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls at the FPÖ.]] Let us not forget what has happened in recent years when talking about why pensioners have such low incomes: With the exception of the 2006 election year, pensioners have actually been fed with one-time payments, which has contributed to the fact that they today have 7 percent less in their pocket than before. – We now have a clear commitment with Social Minister Buchinger to an annual permanent pension increase, and that is exactly what distinguishes us from the previous government. If Mr Strache says that our good social system is no longer manageable because of the evil foreigners, I say to him: Then we have to consider how we will finance the good social system in the future. [[Subsequent calls to the FPÖ.]] And that's what I'm saying: Where a will, there's a way! If we are talking about a more just redistribution of income, we are simply talking about other forms of wealth taxation! One thing I can't hear anymore, if the Minister of Finance says that we are not giving up the revenue of the inheritance tax or the gift tax – at least € 500 million; and: whether the bubbling tax acceptances can be left behind! – but, for example, for the long-term insurance scheme – that men can retire after 45 years of contribution and women after 40 years of contribution – would not have any money. I do not understand this, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16115	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Still speaking time of your group: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16136	Madam President. Estimated Minister of State! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to stress all that the Members of my group in particular have explained. There has been a great deal of talk on the issue of poverty eradication, and I would like to stress once again that a very important condition for combating meaningful poverty is the creation of more full-time jobs. – The Federal Government has joined forces from the beginning – this is visible from the first to the last side of its government agreement – and has underlined that we are committed to combating unemployment, that we want to create more jobs in this country – more jobs with an income that is also possible, very valued colleagues. This is one of the most important conditions for combating poverty, which, of course, also relieves human suffering. It should also be noted that there are also more social security charges. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let me turn to one point in particular, because it has so far been somewhat lacking in the debate: I would like to address Mr Haubner's suggestion that it would be important to introduce a mother's pension. – Dear colleague Haubner, we understand our work going on to mean that everyone – whether mother or father – must have the opportunity to pursue a job; that is the prerequisite. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Remember the union board!]] We attach great importance to the fact that women must also have the opportunity to pursue employment, and we have already adopted the framework conditions necessary for this. I am thinking about flexibilising the childcare allowance, which allows both parents to return to the profession more quickly, or the conditions relating to more childcare facilities. – I think this is a very important area. If you assume that, of course, education must and should play a role in the field of pension, then I can remind you that one of the first tasks that Federal Minister Buchinger set up was that the assessment of child care periods in relation to the pension has been increased more. - That's just for memory. [[Abg. Steibl: But we have it before...!]] I would also like to remind you briefly on this occasion that the social partners and particularly the trade unions in the past have also made sure that wage increases were good wage increases. – The only problem was that we had a finance minister who came from the area of blue/orange, who had his hands so quickly in the workers’ wallets that they could not look so fast, the money was gone again. [[Abg. It was from the ÖVP, wasn't it?- Oh, my God!]] These times are God's thanks because we ensure that workers in this country are taken into account accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16218	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, we come to a whole series of votes, and I am therefore looking for your attention. We come to the vote on the self-employed amendment 446/A(E) by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the fight against the progressive impoverishment of the Austrian population by means of a fair increase in pensions and a modern restructuring of the social state. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Neubauer, colleagues, on the exemption of basic foodstuffs and medicines from VAT. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a corresponding sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on the increase in pensions in 2008. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – That's the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kickl, colleagues, on the reduction of fuel prices. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Oellinger, colleagues, on the increase in the compensatory allowance rate at least to the level of the poverty risk threshold to EU-SILC. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues on the increase in pensions. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. Finally, we are voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Rosenkranz, colleagues, on the fight against the progressive impoverishment of Austrian families by means of the indexing of family benefits and the introduction of a family tax division model. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is rejected. [[Abg. Where's the ÖVP? It'll only be 2100 so far!]] [[17:26:08]] Short debate on the response to the question 1172/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16315	We are now entering the brief debate on the question answered by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, the Environment and the Water Industry with the order number 1172/AB. The above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, so that a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker/no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker to state his reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Pirklhuber to open the debate as an applicant; Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16350	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! The answer to this question, which refers to the EU directive on the labelling of GMOs in the seed, is one of the key challenges if we continue to drive non-genotechnic cultivation in Austria, non-genotechnic cultivation in Europe, if we want to secure it, as is known to be about 70 percent of the European population and about 90 percent of the Austrian population. Mr. Federal Minister! You have given us very good answers here in this reply to the question, I do not want to dispute at all. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Positive!]] On the one hand, it is a question of Austria, at European level, as we have always mentioned in many debates here in this House, rightly working to ensure that non-genotechnic seed remains possible. That is to say, the purity of seeds is a basic requirement, and therefore, in no way can a tolerance for GMO impurities find a law, as is still the case, Mr Federal Minister, unfortunately – you know – the Commission has foreseen in its proposal, with threshold values for seed of 0.3 and 0.5 percent. – This is an undisputed common position, I do not want to argue. And the second, wherever we go, I think, in the same direction, is the question of general authorisation in Europe, and what position the European Food Safety Authority in Parma, i.e. the European Food Authority, currently has, what task should it actually fulfil and how it is working at present – that is, from our point of view poorly, intrepid from our point of view: It is totally unacceptable that it does not really make the decisions it makes comprehensible. This has become striking – we remember – in the context of the Upper Austria case before the European Court of Justice: Upper Austria or the Republic of Austria is well known in this dispute, and with that it seems – and I remember the media reports in the last ten days – that some media representatives assume: Well, now, as it were, a genetic avalanche has been launched. Mr Federal Minister, that is where we are already at what we are talking about, and what we see, where the failures of the last months, of the last few years, lie. The conditions for ensuring non-genotechnic agriculture are certainly two things: firstly, the seed – that I have already mentioned – and secondly – and that is essential – the protection of the non-genotechnic regions, namely legal protection – that is the crucial challenge – to ensure the right of self-determination of the regions in Europe. That is the freedom of choice, which is always spoken of, Mr Schultes. This is the freedom of choice for farmers. We know that in small-scale agriculture, not only in Austria, also in Slovakia, in many other regions, in Poland, in Italy, even in France, in most areas coexistence is not possible. And the current occasion is the Commission's attempt to torpedo the Austrian import bans of MON 810 and T 25 maize. You know, here are import bans that we have fought together. Madam President Prammer was also responsible for a ban as Minister at the time, and there are still further bans, namely the ban on GT 73, which is a rape construction which is still not allowed for import in Austria. We should not neglect that, Federal Minister Pröll. Why has the EU Commission torpedoed the ban on imports? Why is the Commission's import ban being attacked in the third attempt within two years? – Because at the WTO level, this panel decision exists in the field of agro-geneic technology. I would remind you that 1 000 pages, the most comprehensive panel that has ever existed in an economic policy debate between the EU and the USA. And this is where the first central failure has become visible, because the EU Commission has not affected this panel. It's clear if she doesn't mind... [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] - You say I'm not responsible. But please, that's the challenge! If we know that, if there is no opposition from the European Commission here, it becomes striking that at the latest in one year – and this is the case now – the States that have complained, the USA, Argentina and other, can demand specific criminal duties to claim fines for exactly this trade barrier, then of course it is very, very difficult to get out of this situation. My question to you is quite specific: Where were you? Where is your initiative documented that you have acted accordingly for this activity of the EU Commission, namely the WTO Panel, with initiatives at European level, with alliances, so that European rules can finally be enforced in international trade, namely, ladies and gentlemen?- Oh, my God! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Cheerfulness of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Mr Federal Minister, this is the challenge we are all facing! We're going to lose our laugh, I know. But we're fighting for it. We are fighting for this free genetic engineering Austria, for non-genotechnic food production in Europe! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After the decision of the European Court of Justice and the case of the Upper Austrian Prohibition Act, I ask you: What did you do? Where is the Round Table in Austria, where the national representatives meet at the federal level to decide, advise and implement guidelines for the free genetic engineering of maize and rape? Ladies and gentlemen! It is now a command of the hour to implement cultural bans on cultivation! And that's where your initiatives would be asked. The general ban has tipped the European Court of Justice. But he has explicitly said that there are dangers that have not yet been fully recognized. The Advocate General Sharpston has also granted this to genetic engineering critics at the level of the European Court of Justice. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a real chance of pronouncing cultural species-related bans. That means: The cultivation of non-genotechnic maize and at the same time the prohibition of the cultivation of genetic engineering maize, the prohibition of cultivation of genetic engineering raps. These are two very concrete demands that have to be discussed at country level, of course, because cultivation is a country matter. But if this is country-related, then you have a federal competence to coordinate that because it is a challenge for Austria. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Yes, of course! You can't leave the federal states here in the rain. You have to help them. These are tough international, political conflicts that can only be won if we work together on this point. And that's where we miss your activities. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And that's not a secret either: Where you have completely failed from our point of view, this is the environmental programme, the Austrian agricultural environment programme ÖPUL. It is incredible that in an agricultural environment programme, the possibility of setting down non-genotechnic seeds to protect biodiversity was not used. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I can't do that!]] - I can't do that, you say? If this is not done in a voluntary programme, how is it to be done by law? If you don't even fight for it, how is it going to work politically, Minister of State, how is that supposed to work? You are completely inconsistent if you really seriously claim that this is not possible. I know the Commission's letter. However, they have not fought for such a scheme to be introduced and discussed in Europe. And that would have been a wonderful opportunity. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot to the barrel, which Vice-chanc Molterer gave in the "summer talk" of his own. He spoke seriously about the need for genetic technology for climate protection. You have a different opinion, of course, but that your colleague and vice-channer Molterer makes such a statement and at the same time high-ranking scientists in Europe really say to a hundred percent the opposite, that's incredible! That such a thing can happen is not only a Lappsus, but it is unforgivable, nor for that, since a commitment to genetic engineering has been established in the government programme. We will discuss this with the Federal Chancellor tomorrow and we will see what he has done so far to ensure that something goes on. In any case, you, Mr Federal Minister, are not only expecting an unmistakable commitment to the freedom of genetic engineering in the case of renewable raw materials, but at last also the implementation of alternative strategies! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] I come to the conclusion, Madam President. That would be to present new studies, to establish a GMO risk research and to finally support EU Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas massively so that further authorisations of genetic engineering plants will no longer be on the agenda. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16471	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16496	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that Austrian genetic engineering critical policy is already having very bad conditions at the moment. There is, on the one hand, the EU directive on labelling mentioned in the request and in the response to the request, with the intention that in future random and technically inevitable contaminants of conventional seed with GMO varieties between 0.3 and 0.5 percent, no longer need to be marked. This is already something that would mean a significant deterioration in our current regulation, and is also something that does not make it much easier for our organic farmers and organic farmers. Secondly, Federal Minister Pröll in Brussels unfortunately failed to find a qualified majority for maintaining the Austrian import ban on two genetically engineered maize varieties. I think it is not quite happy to submit this study, which supports our criticism and our dissatisfaction also scientifically, only so late. I think that if we had done this to the WTO earlier, we would probably have had better cards than to get the study out of the hat at the last second. Then we might have saved this. The removal of the above-mentioned solution has already been addressed. The problem is that on many questions, Brussels simply does not accept what our people want, what we, Austrian politics, want, and that we have not really found a key to ensuring that our interests are effectively enforced. What makes me equally worried – my previous speaker also mentioned it – are the tendencies that agricultural fuels are almost explained as an all-healer against climate warming, even if they have not been produced at all in a sustainable way – I would like to talk about CO2-neutral in the most few cases. I also think it is very problematic that Vice-chanc Molterer has no problem with genetically engineering and then using energy plants in Austria. In the long term, the Minister for the Environment has also not excluded this in a “time in the picture” interview. First of all, this is nothing that meets the wishes of our people, because as soon as genetically engineered plants – whatever they may be – are on the field, the way to the food chain is no longer very far, Moreover, this does not improve our credibility at European level. Last point: There is a problem, among other things, in government documents or in legislative discussions, which in part also come from ourselves and where we in Austria have the power to make a truly protective genetic engineering policy. I am now playing a very specific role in the government template for the Federal Environment Liability Act, where the economy has been very massively lobbying, where it absolutely wants a development risk, that is to say, to pay attention to the GMOs now: If a genetically modified organism is issued, spreads or causes any other environmental damage, and it was not yet scientifically foreseeable at the time of delivery that such a thing could happen, then in the future the economy would like to stem from the responsibility that the general public, taxpayers and taxpayers would have to bear the costs of reorganisation, although, of course, the company owning the patent continues to do the business. I mean, this is neither particularly prudent nor a really critical policy of genetic engineering, which we ourselves are doing here, in which we have a lot of things in our hands. There are a lot of approaches to action, such as liability. I think there are still some gaps in the genetic engineering law. Especially in the whole question of liability there are relatively many ambiguities, there are gaps that we must fill. Genetically critical research is urgently to be forced and also to do so. – By the way, this is precisely what nuclear-critical research is all about, because it is important to support our concerns about the concerns of our people with scientific arguments. At EU level, we should make much more use of the trend that people in France, for example, are increasingly demanding that they reject genetically engineered foods. I think there is another drive that can be used where one can forge alliances, where one can really see that EU-wide co-existence is ensured in all regions. I am of the opinion that, in the end, Austria's task is to counteract the fact that the European Union's policy within the WTO is still one that is completely blind on the social, environmental, developmental and human rights front, where it really is only about economic rights. To interfere and to see that we come to solutions that ultimately lead to meaningful GMO-free regions in Europe would be a task that should be very high on the priority list.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16557	Now comes Mr. Ing. School speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16578	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Beautiful: I can talk again, genetic engineering is on the program. Mr Pirklhuber has again discovered a subject, it is always the same. However, this gives me the opportunity to report that in Austria everything is still fine, that everything is still in the lot, that our seed technology regulation is still valid, that the GMO is still valid, that the federal laws to keep the genetic engineering outside are in order, and that we are also more and more successful in placing the products from Austrian agriculture, avoiding genetic engineering. We have also ensured that the Austrian organic farmers, as well as the conventional farmers, can supply seed free of genetic engineering. That will also be the case in the future. The excitement of Mr Pirklhuber is not understandable, but it is part of the programme in the House, which is exactly the same as that of the year. In Austria, on the one hand, we ensure that genetic engineering is not found in the field, but we also ensure that the market, through marketing programmes, through cooperation with the large trade chains, is addressed to the needs of customers and consumers. Similarly, it is by regulating seed production itself that we can respond to the needs of farmers that they get genetic-free seed that they can serve their customers well. And this is supported by the Austrian expression of biomass and biomass use. It is true that we are good in bioethanol production, for example. Yesterday I looked at Pischelsdorf, how it works, I saw how guaranteed non-genotechnic protein feed from Austrian production came from the dryer. This is a product that our cattle farmers need so that they do not have to import genetically modified soya from South America. This combined strategy, which we have in Austria, legalise and serve properly through the market, gives farmers the opportunity to bring good products to customers, that is the program that works best. Mr Pirklhuber, this has to do with the market and marketing. You don't understand that, but the customers on the market and the farmers in the production know what's best for them. Thank God we have the opportunity to produce bioethanol, a chance to secure the sale of genetically unchanged maize from traditional farmed maize in Austria, just as we can do for wheat. We thus bring a fuel to the market from a plant with a very high degree of sustainability, with a very high level of CO2 reduction in the entire production chain, with which you will clearly emit 40 percent less CO2 with every litre you use than if you would drive a petrol car – and that from Austrian production! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] The combined strategy of genetic freedom and safeguarding individual energy autonomy is a great thing. This is very well ensured through the Austrian way. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: It's imported!]] Today, the Austrian consumer can decide to use GMO-free products from Austrian cultivation – there is no genetically modified plant on the farm! – and at the same time, the Austrian driver can choose when to tank his car when he hangs the tap into the tank and decide whether the other end of the hose in Kazakhstan or in Pischelsdorf is on an Austrian field. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: How many gas stations are there?]] And that's a good combination. Mr Pirklhuber, do you know who we owe this combination to? – Our Minister for Agriculture and the Environment Josef Pröll, who not only brings things forward well in Austria, but also placed the subject very properly at European level. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: You weren't at the AGES yesterday!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16660	Mrs. Dr. Moser is now speaking. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16681	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Above all, it looks good with the freedom of genetic engineering in Austria. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Very good!]] – Mr Minister, it would be very good if you would also present a clear concept, a comprehensive concept for non-genotechnic plant cultivation. We really need a crop-related ban on the cultivation of genetically engineered seed. You are still guilty of this comprehensive approach, Minister. - First of all. Minister, second: We would be very good if we were to push ahead with scientific research that would make our position even more secure within the EU, so that we could argue even better against the WTO's judgments, so that we could convince the Commission or the Member States, the partner countries in the European Union, even better. Mr Minister, we are still missing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Thirdly, We would be very good, Mr Minister, if you were consistent enough to maintain the use of non-genotechnic products in the ÖPUL programme once and for all of genetic engineering-free seeds. You owe it to us, too, Minister. Finally, that would be the fourth point, Mr. Minister, you are missing: To be really good now, I am lacking the point that you are clearly dissociating yourself from the statements of the current Minister of Finance, the former Minister of Agriculture Molterer, who opened the door to the cultivation of genetically engineered seed towards biomass in August in a “Kurier” interview in Austria. I can only quote you from the “Kurier” – Originalton Molterer –: "And if we want to move on to biomass, we will have to talk about genetic technology there, only there. I can’t want climate protection, but I can’t say anything.” – This is original Molterer. That means, over the back door of climate protection – this is particularly refined! – to keep genetic technology in place in our fields, in our agriculture, on our soil. Mr Minister, you have in no way demented that in any way, you have not in any way corrected it. This is your fifth failure – I repeat it once again – that will not allow you to be truly celebrated as an environmentalist, truly huge minister in the field of genetic engineering throughout the EU. You're still missing. And if you make this clear to me now and if you start appropriate legal initiatives to address these five shortcomings, we can speak positively on behalf of you. But that's still missing. And that is why today this question meeting to further strengthen your back on the one hand and on the other hand to motivate you to finally do the last five duties. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16726	It now has Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). The speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16747	Madam President. High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The topic of genetic engineering will undoubtedly continue to accompany us in Europe in the coming months and years. I would just like to address a few issues, because all of this was very mixy and dirty and discussed and addressed: Where are we? What are the challenges? What needs to be clearly and clearly separated in the debate? First of all: In Austria, as far as the seed is concerned, we have found a regulation with zero tolerance or at the detection limit of 0.1 percent and that is also determined by law to keep genetic engineering out of Austria as far as the seed is concerned. This is a model for Europe. You know that we have been discussing again and again in the European Union, in the Commission itself and in the relevant agricultural and environmental councils: Where are the borders and thresholds for contamination in the seeds to be found in Europe? With its pioneering role, Austria is becoming more and more involved in the discussion on the standard – the first point – because we put it in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Second point: With regard to feed and food, which is a completely different debate than seed and seed in agriculture, we have fought very much for it and fought for a label scheme in Europe, which means: 0.9 percent. All that is about it must be marked. And there is absolute security for farmers in Europe who are free to decide: Choose a feed that is genetically modified or not? And the consumer can also choose with the handle into the shelf. That's a fair offer. We all have freedom of choice for food and feed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We will decide whether or not the genetic engineering in the food and feed sectors will continue to penetrate or not. Things are clean to separate. The third point is: As far as the national prohibition regulations are concerned, we should not pretend that this would have been changed by the last decision that I was making, because it was also very unfairly discussed by you, Mr Deputies, or also by the honourable Member. [[in the direction of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] [[Abg. Dr. Moser: No, no!]] You have to know one thing: There have long been genetically modified structures in the food and food sector also in Austria. However, because of the labelling, everyone can choose freely. We have banned two constructions with a national prohibition regulation for various reasons. We have three votes behind us in the Environment Council. Twice we were able to win the prohibition regulations plus seeds by a qualified majority. The Commission has now done the following: It has separated the proposal and has said that we agree with Austria - and you have to say that - to keep agriculture free from genetic engineering, we are no longer voting on it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Pirklhuber]] But the question of imports as feed and food we put to the disposition, because by marking everyone can choose. And we were able to win this election by majority in the vote. Do not forget the vote: 191 to 58. You always forget that. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's right!]] And that is one thing that has been achieved, Mr Member, you do not need to be nervous: the Environment Ministers have not tipped the national ban regulation. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Of course they did it before the European Court of Justice!]] No, you know the decision – you know the decision – but with the path, the Commission has to decide what it is doing on its own. We still have the national prohibition regulations, and we will also present our opinion on these constructions in good time for the Commission decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] That is precisely what was decided at the last Council of Environment Ministers in Brussels. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, in this sense we can look absolutely optimistically into the future with regard to the issue of non-genotechnic agriculture. I would also like to sum up in conclusion in order to clear up with this Schimaar that genetic engineering freedom in the national environmental programme would continue to help us. Mr Pirklhuber, you always forget to say the second part: This environmental programme for Austria's agriculture, defined in the Green Pact until 2013, is voluntary. It does not at all help us to define the freedom of genetic engineering there, if there are dozens of farmers who simply don't participate in it and then say in the reverse, then we take the genetic engineering and sow these products out because we do not have the environmental programme individually anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I can't do that!]] It does not protect us, freedom of genetic engineering in the environmental programme does not protect us from genetic sowing, but rather national legislation for which we have fought, which we have wisely implemented – that is the basis and the right line for which we have drawn and are also represented. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's stupid!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, no other country has so much expertise and so much coordination in the code area in the Agency for Health and Food Safety, AGES, where real competence is organised for all Europe in the field of GMO-free regions, in the field of co-existence where it is discussed, how the co-existence of cultures can work in a small part of agriculture as in Austria, this is or does not work, and if, how. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Go to Spain!]] As long as these questions are not resolved, you know that very well, I will follow a path that means: Without co-existence, no cultivation of genetically modified products and seeds in Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The honourable Member, it is clear that: There is only one state that, driven above all by a party friend and councillor of yours, has attempted a regime of violence and has been spectacularly driven to the wall, namely Upper Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: A reasonable arrangement!]] They have chosen the wrong path, which is why they have chosen the wrong path, against better knowledge than the exaggerated reaction from the ECJ. And that's not good. That is why we need to talk about how to implement GMOs on a voluntary basis. And that's what we're doing; that's what we're working out. And in this way we can differentiate. We will clarify the issue of co-existence, and we will have to make decisions differently in the future. But genetic engineering in agriculture is not dissociating because these central questions remain unresolved. And that's what we're fighting for. For this we have achieved great success, and that is no reason to become nervous. On the contrary, we have the better arguments with smart expertise on our side.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16916	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement to speak. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e16937	Madam President. Minister! Minister! It is almost sad that Mr Grillitsch is not here, although he is the expert in genetic engineering. It's always funny to hear his calls. I'm gonna miss her. But perhaps this will give us the opportunity to discuss seriously with the ÖVP. Green genetic engineering is a model example of how the EU's remoteness, ignorance and awayness work. Although 95 percent of Austrians and more than 80 percent of EU citizens face green genetic engineering and express great concerns, the EU is driving over this issue in ice cold. That's fact. And if we hear today, Minister, that you want to defend with teeth and claws that no genetic engineering seed will be exported in Austrian agriculture, we also take note of this, I hope you will keep it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pröll, you have promised the same thing when it was said that we will not introduce any genetic seed or genetic products to us. But they are introduced every day. And this chicken of the Austrian Genmais import ban also wanted to prevent you first. But you didn't make it. That is, you want to make us know now, you will defend anything with teeth and claws, but only a few days ago you suffered a defeat where you have to admit that you have completely failed there. If you have also followed the media reports – and you know it clearly better than we all, who were not there – which showed how this voting process went over the stage, then I have to say: There is a real need to turn away from this EU, which is very much above these objections of large countries such as Germany, France and so on, which have made it quite clear in their voting behaviour that they agree to the Austrian position of an import ban. That, Mr Minister, seems to be a real sign that you are Your position could not hold and that in the future you will probably not keep those great promises you made today. But once again to explain what it's all about: In the case of rat experiments carried out in the Genmais sector, non-genotechnic products and genetically contaminated products were compared and given free access to rats. The rats, wise animals they are, have not eaten the genmais. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] These rats were forced to feed with Genmais, and within three to four days they were dead. Minister, let's take this Genmais, let's make our menu with Genmais, but you'll cost – and then we'll all go along. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: She doesn't force anyone!]] I'm excited to see if you agree to what's going on then. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Who forces them? - No one!]] Who forces them? The Austrian consumers have no chance, Minister, to choose what is happening. I'll give you an example. Listen carefully, Mr. Schultes. Not everything's in lot. Everyone at the ÖVP lives behind the moon. That would be the right statement. You have no idea what's going on. They want Austrian consumers to know that everything is all right. It's all right! Every year 800 000 tons of soya, soy, are brought to Austria and fed to our animals. And on this detour, Mr. Schultes, Minister, genetic engineering is coming to our tables. That's fact. And now you want to tell us that this chicken of the import ban would not be a problem. That's a problem! How does such adventurous approval take place? You know it very well. The Authority, a large European Food Safety Authority, has so far not carried out any review of this genetic contamination. There is no long-term study. There is no study of the extent to which genetic engineering affects the human body that affects human health. This will be taken over uncontrolled by the large companies Monsanto, Syngenta and so on. And now, Mr. Minister, come your revelation. If you really are serious about this question, you could complain of EFSA as an Austrian minister. On the next occasion, if there is a request from any group for the approval of another GMO seed, no matter what, you could bring an action as a minister. Be so honest, do this, bring a complaint to EFSA and prove to the House that you are not only announcing it in large speech bubbles, but really serious! This would also be a great opportunity for our consumers, for all of us. This also concerns our Mrs Health Minister. You too, Mrs Kdolsky, could use a little more in the field of genetic safety, because you recently explained to us that it is not necessary to use any import barriers in the rape, which is also genetically modified. That is, when we sum up everything, we have to find that the ÖVP is in a good tradition. The Federal Minister for Smoking already at his time has not been committed to reasonable restrictions. And you, Minister Pröll, and you, Minister Kdolsky, do the same. I beg you, stop trampling around on our big trouble cases! Be honest and try it with a complaint against EFSA, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17005	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17026	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is about the EU directive on the labelling of GMOs in seeds. This is a fundamental question in Austria if we want to be a country in which genetic engineering should not have a chance. I say yes, and with full knowledge that the population is strictly opposed to genetically modified food. Of course, if the former Minister of Agriculture and the current Minister of Finance says, I can already imagine at the Raps that we are introducing genetically modified plants. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Ing. Schools.]] – He said! But especially you in agriculture are one of the greatest advocates of the idea of a free Austrian. You know exactly what your colleagues have done in this area in Central America and South America. They almost all perished. Only the giant companies and the very large agricultural companies have benefited. I warn I'm sure you'll be able to open a gate here. This is death for small-structured agriculture in Austria, yes, throughout Europe. But the hope that you might save yourself a lot of fertilizer has not been fulfilled. Or take For example, they're just the mysterious bee dying in the United States. This is most likely due to genetically modified plants. Mr Pröll, you are always talking about the Austrian purity bid. Austria is the country in Europe, where the share of land in organic farming has the highest percentage. And this is also something very special for climate protection. I believe that in order for this to remain so, it is also your most sacred duty – I would say so, because you are Roman Catholic – to do everything that the Austrian Cleans Command for Seeds is enforced in Austria, but also in the EU. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] I just want to give you an example. Spain is well-known for its organic farming. In the meantime, it has been found that 25 percent of organic products in Spain have already been genetically modified. What does that mean? – Organic agriculture is dead in Spain! And I don't want it to happen in Austria too! [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, given the political reality at European level, I have little hope for good decisions for Austria. An example: It is a fact that despite the support of 15 EU countries, the position of Austria has been completely ignored by the Union. In voting 15 countries voted for us with 191 votes in favour, while only four countries voted in favour of the Commission's request. From my point of view, the EU is increasingly developing into a representation of lobbys and large companies. There are no longer the interests of the people and the environment. I should like to ask you to ensure the principle of GMO-free agriculture in Austria, to enforce a labelling obligation for genetically modified foods, and also to have a labelling obligation for imported GMOs, with labelling being done in the same way and in a minimum size for all products, and to ensure that Austria remains free of genetic engineering and that sanctions are imposed on infringements of GMOs, which is particularly important to me. I think even if only a very small door is left open, it is no longer to stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17102	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[18:08:55]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17124	I will resume the negotiations on item 4 of the agenda. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). I'll give it to him. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17148	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! Of course, it is important to protect, strengthen and promote families from the ÖVP – which is not a secret, I believe, here in the House. That is why I have to take a brief look back at the last session, where the success model of the Childcare Act has already been decided. But that was the first big step in this government to flexibly make this model and for us, especially important, a step towards freedom of choice. So today, and so I come back to the debate that has already begun, another important step, namely the support of the multi-child family. This is also a support for those who need support. The increase in this sibling rate concerns 170 000 children, and the increase in the income limit for the multi-child supplement concerns the proud number of 22,000 children. That is why we have to say that these are again important steps to bring more money into the pockets of those families that really need it. One cannot hide here that our Mrs. Federal Minister and, of course, the ÖVP were the driving force in this area that more financial resources are available to the multi-child families. [[Abg. Oils: Well, you can hide a lot!]] There would probably have been fewer initiatives if our Mrs. Federal Minister had not done so. I would also like to draw the view of young people to a point that has not yet been illuminated: This amendment to the Family Allowance Act also gives young people seeking family support the opportunity to earn up to the level of poverty. In other words, young people seeking work can earn them up to the level of poverty and receive family allowances, including unemployed young people who receive unemployment benefits below the level of poverty. The third essential point in my view is that the full-year salary limit, which is entitled to family support, will be increased to €9 000 a year. Summa summarum could be said: Much is better for young people and families in this country through this government initiative, but above all the ÖVP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17198	Next, Mr Riepl. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17219	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It has already been said in the course of the debate: More support for children's families is being discussed and decided today. I think this is an important and correct step that is now being taken by this government. I figured out: With my neighbor with his three children, this makes up about € 260 more in the year, so in addition. I think it's about amounts that can very well be used for children's families. That is why, I believe, is a good signal and a good solution, even if you consider that the issue of funding is always important for family benefits. In this context, I must mention that, of course, we are still sad that the Family Compensation Fund is, as it were, empty by the development of recent years, since the ministers responsible for it have not taken care of the fact that there is always the necessary coverage. My previous speaker, Mr Einwallner, has just said that the limit on student earnings will be increased to €9 000, which will make it possible to pay €275 more. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to point out that we are now facing the situation that apprentice compensations, for example – the metal industry as an example – make up €1 170 a month. In other words, there are apprentices of 19 or 20 years of age – and there are enough of them – who are in the last year of teaching and receive amounts as an apprentice compensation, which in no way result in a reduction or a loss of family support, since the compensation for apprentices is not considered to be income in this sense, whereas in a student of the same age the excess of € 9 000 from next year already leads to the risk of family allowances. What do I want to say? – The situation is uneven for young people. That is why I believe that we are well advised to think about doing a much stronger increase in the amount of earnings, especially for those who are in vocational training at the university or at a university. I am pleading that I stand for a particularly strong increase in the level of commitment for students, so that we have a similarity with those who are in apprenticeship training, in vocational training, in a teaching. Mrs Federal Minister, perhaps next year we will be able to think together on this subject area and think out reasonable solutions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17268	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17289	Mrs. Minister! Madam President. I promised you a few more figures on family support so that we can really talk about facts. Statistics Austria has said that only in the last five years the growth rate in Austria has amounted to 234,000 and this increase has been 94 percent due to the increase in migration. – Whether “profit” is the right word is said, the Austrian statistics call it so. That is, in the last five years, about 234,000 people are more in Austria – through immigration. Statistics Austria assumes that, with the continuation of this development, immigration will increase further from 2009 onwards by increasing the number of Austrian people. That is, we speak of about 40,000 people coming to us each year. In the course of this development, which is also a very interesting number, we would experience that, due to the deaths and births, we had a minimum of 16 000 in Austrian people and an increase of about 40 000 from immigration. Now comes exactly the point: Statistics also show that it is precisely the foreigners, especially the Muslims who have a fertility rate of about 2.4 per woman, as opposed to the Austrian women she is about 1.3 in. That is exactly where Mrs Bures is, who says that we need to save the poor foreigners from poverty, that we need to promote it. And now comes the crucial point: This is where family support is to begin. That means, a very clear political statement: One would not like to promote the autochthonic Austrian families, but foreign families. – That's exactly what we criticized. The Freedom Party has, therefore, – I now give you the figures, Mrs Minister, perhaps you can address them; it was also a matter of the Family Committee – introduced this amendment and said: We want additional funding from the second child. We want to meet Austrian reality, we want to promote Austrian families. This increase we have made from 12.80 to 15 – you know the amendment – and further increases in three children, four children, would have led to a total cost of € 14 million to € 16 million per year. Mrs Minister, please explain to us how you will have called for an increase of 200 million! That was your answer on the basis of our amendment. – That’s not true! That's wrong! That's not true. I'm asking for information. [[Interference of Federal Minis-Terin Dr. Kdolsky.]] We note that the Freedom Party has requested an increase in support for the families of about 16 million. [[New interim remark by Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky.]] And that's too little for you. – That means that this is really a sign of poverty for your family policy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17362	The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. 4 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17384	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! I don't want to focus on how one population group is being played out against the other all day – I just don't like it anymore. The fact is, every 20 years. Child in Europe is poor and affects mainly families with many children. I would like to tell you today about a family that I personally know well, which I met in East Styria in a small district town. Very often, there is the case that the family father has to commute, that is, all week round is actually only for sleeping at home. The mother provides care for five children who go to kindergarten, primary school, high school or gymnasium. This family will benefit from this increased family allowance, which will have something to do with it. The only problem is that money, as Austria does, does not seem to solve the problem. Austria is one of those countries that directly issue the most money to the families, but offer the least infrastructure for that. And this is not really a way to combat poverty. I would like to show you the example of this family. The mother works half-days, which is quite a business for five children. With every illness, at every schoolboy et cetera, she has the problem of where she is housed her children, but she tries to earn it because it is very difficult with a salary. However, it was even more difficult when she was supposed to do the AMS training. She was asked to stay there until 3 p.m., and that is impossible with the children. One of the problems that this mother has in Austria is that all the different schools stop at quite different times and that it is still not common in the regions that there is really a place for the children to stay in which they like to give them – apart from that, they usually cost a lot of money. So: Kindergarten all day long, after the folk school an afternoon care, because we don't have an all day school, the primary students should not become key children either, and for higher students the same is true. Especially extreme is the matter of course at school. School is a hot topic at all, because this family is about such small things as: Here is a reading to pay, and there we need additional school material. One of the children has started in a laptop class, and what that means to the family is almost unimaginable. There has been no holiday for this family for years. The children have enormous pressure, they can't keep up. For children, poverty is much more difficult because they are currently in an identity phase because they are trying to measure themselves on equal ages with those with whom they live. There is, of course, no mobile phone for these children, not regular clothes – the clothing is usually bought with holiday and Christmas money, because it's going out right now, in between, it's more problematic. These children have problems with self-confidence – which has also been demonstrated in many studies, but also in this family – because they cannot compete. They feel it is very stressful that their parents cannot keep up with this poverty problem. One of the problems one sees in this family – which is why it is particularly plausible – is what we have seen in the UNICEF study, that poor children in particular also have health problems. One of the children has asthma because an apartment was molded. It was high time to find a new one, and that was a particularly exciting story, because in Austria there are hardly any more apartments that have so many rooms to accommodate such a large family. The time for three children to sleep in a small cabin is finally over. No longer do parents want to do this to the children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Therefore, although child support is an important step and something great, I should like to say straight away: For poor families in particular, it is a huge problem that child support is paid every two months, because financial planning is very difficult. For example, a social worker has explained to me that you can't let the children eat retroactively for a month because you just got the money for two months. So we should look at the fact that we really pay the child allowance on a monthly basis. All studies prove: The best fight against poverty, the best thing you can do to families, is to give mothers the opportunity to go to work, to give mothers the opportunity to secure the family financially, so that even a multi-child family has the chance to compete with a family with fewer children. We should take care of this, but we need infrastructure and not just cash. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17457	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 3 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17480	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Child-rich families certainly have a problem regarding vacation, or that the mother, when it comes to four or five children, is also working. This is a problem and requires a decision. From next year on, children's rich families will receive more financial support, and I will call upon them to do so. For the third child, there will be €9.50 per month, for the fourth and every other child by €24.50. This is achieved by increasing the so-called sibling grade, which for the third child is now 35 € and for each additional 50 €. At the same time, the income limit is also increased from € 45 000 to € 55 000. I find that perfectly fine, but notice that I miss that there is no extra funding, especially for people who don't have it as easy in life, and these are children with disabilities and their parents, as they did in 2003. The children are included in the siblings, but there is no extra funding for children with handicap. I also miss a higher support from the second child, because, yes, at least two children, and not, from the third child, and “multichild family” is not the number, but the majority. So I would have expected that this brother-in-law degree was already available from the second child. I would have liked this to happen, especially because there are a lot of Austrian families who do not have a second child and think about whether they want to have a second child or not. And that might have contributed to an increase in birth rate.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17514	Now comes Mrs Mag. Aubauer. 3 minutes desired speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17535	Madam President. High house! "Children have to have", Thomas Mann described normality in the last century. It's quite different these days. But can we really imagine a country going into a good future if each generation is one third smaller than the previous? - It's hardly possible to imagine that. Therefore: Investment in children is the best investment in the future. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the FPÖ.]] Of course, I am right to the colleague of the Greens: The child wish is not awakened with the calculator, but children need money, families need money. That is why it is so important that we decide today to further promote children's families. To the remarks of my previous speaker: There is the proven family allowance from the first child and then for the second child. More family allowances, which should make it easier for women and men to have a yes to the child. Families need money, that's why we want a family split. With the number of children, the tax burden on the family is expected to decrease in the future. But families need not only money, but also ideas. It's nice that Social Minister Buchinger announced yesterday that he would like to promote seniority gardens. These are day-to-day facilities, care facilities for seniors. Silvia Fuhrmann and I have already taken a step further in the ÖVP perspective group. We want a meeting center of young and old, i.e. a combination of kindergarten and senior garden. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] Grandma's working in the kindergarten, it's called. Children then have the feeling of being cared for by a grandma, and Grandma and Grandpa have a job that will make you fun. – Read more also in the perspective group Generation Justice. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek:... Model from Germany!]] And we would also like to bring social minister Buchinger closer. – Thank you for your interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17593	The next point is Mr Voller. 2 minutes desired speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17614	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The government template which is currently before us to deal with in plenary, which is to amend the family compensation law, can be seen as a further step towards the implementation of the government programme in the chapter on family policy. After flexibilising child benefit-new and the state childcare offensive, today's increase in family allowances for families with three or more children is a point that is important in the fight against the increasing risk of poverty of multiple-child families, which often have to deal with only a single or low income. Many studies prove this. There are also reports from the Austrian poverty conference. One of these reports lists households with two adults and three or more children as one of the largest vulnerable groups. As a second vulnerable group, I would also like to point out that this report mentions single-parents with a child, especially women affected by it. These two types of budget have the highest poverty rate across the EU. I am particularly pleased to see, as Mr Einwallner has said today, the possibility for young people seeking employment, in the future, to earn under the limits of the ASVG without fear of losing the right to family aid. Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! I would also like to use this debate today to appeal to you and the relevant members of the government to continue to strengthen our efforts towards childcare facilities in order to facilitate women's return to work. Only then, I am convinced, will it be possible to continue to keep family policy at top level in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17644	Mr Praßl. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17666	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Today, we are adopting a change in the family burden equalization law, thus strengthening the multi-child families. As a representative of the family party, the Austrian People's Party, I am very proud that we support all those who are financially heavily burdened, namely parents with several children. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Perspective Group!]] We are making a very important contribution to our society with this measure. We are also consistently implementing a part of the government programme. This concerns siblings. First, we increase the siblings' rating for the third child to 35 € and for each other to 50 €. For a family with three children, this means approximately 47 € per month. Austria, Ladies and gentlemen, about 170 000 children or their parents will benefit from this increase. The income limit is also increased from € 45 000 to € 55 000 – a very positive effect. The third measure, ladies and gentlemen, mainly benefits students. In concrete terms, for all children of full age, the amount of earnings is increased from €8 700 to €9 000. But the young people seeking employment are also supported by this scheme. Ladies and gentlemen, with this new law, I believe that we have helped to relieve and say children-rich families: Austria is a child-friendly country! – Mrs Federal Minister, I would like to congratulate you on this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17702	Mrs Hagenhofer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17724	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) A lot has already been said about the amendment to the Family Allowance Act, but one thing I would like to add: It is particularly gratifying that for young people who are in school education or who do an internship and, so to speak, receive something from the service provider that does not eliminate the family allowance. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also have a final request to the Minister – we discussed it in committee too – and I think we were quite agreed – and I would like to address the families with disabled children at this point, which are not the households that have more than three children. I would ask you, as you have announced, to increase family allowances as the next step for these families. That would have been it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17766	Mrs Fuhrmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17787	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I think the most important thing in family policy is that we make sustainable decisions. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Thanks be to God the word “sustainable ”!]] But if this year alone the third measure in the field of family is taken, the Minister of State can only congratulate it. I can remind you that the increase in family allowances for multiple-child families is already the third measure we are taking this year – after the flexibility of the childcare allowance and the agreement with the federal states on the extension of childcare facilities. Although, as one of the previous speakers has already said, the money is not necessarily the only one, I believe that the framework conditions are very, very important when parents make the decision: Do I recognize the family and start one or do I not? I believe that the €9.6 billion, which is now available to the multi-child families each year, is an important and correct investment. I would also like to address the point of view of the students and the young people seeking work, because I believe that it is very important for students not only for social reasons but also for the purpose of horizontal enlargement and professional practice to work in addition to their studies. There is now the possibility to earn more – this amount is increased from €8,725 per year to €9 000 per year. I believe that this is a very important and correct step. When it comes to supporting young people seeking employment – who are obliged as a state to give a perspective in life – it is important to take these measures here. I believe that these conditions allow young people in our country to continue their training as best they can and to find a good start to life. I am therefore seeking support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17827	The next honourable Member is Mrs Mag. Muttons. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17848	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! High house! The main cornerstones of the present amendment to the Family Tax Compensation Act have already been set out. It is fact, even today more often mentioned that families with several children are at risk of poverty. However, statistics also show that single-parents with several children, where only one parent deserves, are particularly affected by financial bottlenecks. It can be concluded that the employment of women for families is an important protection against poverty. Therefore, the increase in family support can only be one aspect – although certainly an important one – to find solutions. At least equally important and economically also particularly useful in the long term, however, it is particularly useful to create options for women, i.e. create framework conditions to enable those women who want to work. Another must is the expansion of childcare places. There's a need to catch up. After years of announcements and promises, the Kindergarten offensive and the additional financial resources are now moving forward. International experience shows that a better offer of childcare facilities means a higher number of women in work. This also means that women and men can choose a child more easily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17882	The next speaker is Mr Pack. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17903	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This is how many of my previous speakers have spoken. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. I believe that far beyond all the borders of the parties, it is good that we support child-rich families more that they will receive better financial support. If you have followed this debate here, but also those in the committee, then you have to hold: It can be done more and more, but we must also pay attention to our budget! The Minister has already announced it in the Committee: There will be some in this area. Especially today's presentation and the previous decisions in the family sector clearly show that family policy is right and good in the hands of an ÖVP minister and is being dealt with successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17939	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e17961	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. The question of children is a question of the future and the future capacity of a society. We have now discussed the long and broadness of this innovation of the family burden compensation law. I would just like to say that today we are taking a further step towards a much better financial performance for multi-child families. Some 170 000 children are affected in the positive sense by this multi-children's rate, and there are other measures. The income limit for the multi-child train strike is increased by €10 000 from €45 000 to €55 000. This improvement supports an additional 22,000 children. There is also, in order to repeat and stress this, an improvement in the family allowance for children seeking work, with the creation of a small amount of service. That it may be because apprentices also have higher salaries, that there is an inequality with students, we will look at and observe very closely in the future. I would also like to say that an increase in family support for significantly disabled children would, of course, be important. I really can only express my great recognition and an honest thanks to the parents who care for their children with a lot of love, but also – I know from those concerned – with much patience, sacrifice and hardship. The Minister for Family Affairs has also indicated that there are further considerations that there will be an increase in these contributions in the near future. The demand for an increase from the second child must be said: You just have to look at how you can cope with the budget, which is so to speak in the family tax compensation fund. I believe that, in particular with these measures, in addition to flexibilising the childcare allowance and much more, which was very quickly implemented by the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs in accordance with the government agreements, has again been decided on another important point from this ministry. When more childcare places are mentioned again and again, I believe that it would no longer be necessary to have funding from the federal government again and again, now € 20 million and € 15 million respectively for the Childcare, which flows to countries. It would be desirable for the countries and kindergarten holders, especially the municipalities, to know or to observe how important it is to have good flexible childcare on the spot, because the next census is definitely coming. To the SPÖ said: I am going to follow closely whether, in fact, so many kindergartens will be created in the future, because the framework conditions are largely present, and, as I think, the structural measures have also been taken. One problem is the flexible opening hours or the care of children under the age of three. And there is little difference between an ÖVP citizen and a SPÖ citizen, in my opinion, whether they introduce flexible child care periods or not, but that is still a very strong ideology. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18012	It has now come up with Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18033	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Two weeks ago, a survey on “Family and Youth” took place in this house. I can say to all those of you who could not deal with it or with the lectures: It was a very exciting and informative survey. Then: The essential thing of such events is that we are not reinventing the wheel, but that we can also use and integrate those topics and initiatives that are already existing, new initiatives, in this context for us. But we have been able to gain knowledge. For me, it was especially exciting to see that we can be very proud of our family policy in the international context. I believe that we have not yet arrived at Weitem where we see an end and have a perfect family policy, but we are on a good path that has been started many years ago. All the speeches I thank very much for have confirmed what we have done in the implementation of the Government Agreement. It is not just a measure that is helpful, but it must be several. And exactly the more we have presented together in a very nice package, namely: Compatibility of work and family, probably the possibility of flexibilization also in relation to child care, extension of childcare through first-time Article 15a agreements between the federal government and the countries. Now a very essential factor: Promotion of multi-children's families. We know from the reports that families, especially from the third child, have a problem and come to the poverty line. I therefore think that this is a very essential step, one of the many steps in a good family policy for the Austrian families we will take here. I believe that the fact that we support the families with the siblings' allowance and with the increase in the income limit for the multi-child supplement totaling € 35.4 million is already a visible sign. Yes, I give you all the right, only the money doesn't matter, but I also remember the following: If you don't give the money, then it is demanded that you also support financially. – All right, is an art that no one can, and therefore I believe that this three-way package, namely, on the one hand, to support compatibility, on the second side, and on the third, Page Childcare is an important and big step for Austrian families. I have previously stressed that the well-being of children is an important factor in this context. I do not believe that we should always talk here about families or the combination of work and family, but we are thinking of the ones we need to do, namely the children. It benefits from this distribution of € 25 million more in family allowance 170 000 children in Austria. By increasing the annual income limit, around 22,000 children are added. I think that's a right to take these steps. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But young people too will benefit. By enabling young people seeking work to earn little until they find a job, we allow them a first step into the world of work, and that is good, and that is important. I believe that we will also find the next steps in the comparison between students and apprentices. We still have a lot of things ahead of us. I have said that the first and not all steps have been taken, just as we must continue to reflect on the support of families caring for disabled children. In 2003 there was the last increase, and I believe that a further increase must come. This will be a next step. This bill was about the multi-children's graduation. That's what I think we did. We wanted to create justice. Above all, we wanted to create justice for those families who are willing to bring more children into the world and to present and live families rich in children. That's us, I think, good together. I thank you for that. I believe that we will bring together a lot of positive things for the Austrian families in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18100	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law in 228 of the supplements. Mr Rosenkranz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional motion and amendment and a request for a separate vote. First of all, I shall have to vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, and the parts of the bill concerned by the request for separate vote. We first come to a separate vote on paragraph 1 of the draft law as it stands. I would ask those Members of the House who are here to vote for it to be a sign of approval. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Rosenkranz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment which refers to paragraph 4. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are here. – This is the minority. This amendment is therefore rejected. We shall immediately vote on this part of the draft law as it stands. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of a positive sign. – This is accepted by a majority. Mr Rosenkranz, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional proposal concerning the insertion of a new point 4a. I call on the honourable Members of the House to give this request an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. This additional request is therefore rejected. Finally, we shall vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – That is unanimous in turn. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Mandak, fellow Members, on the right to family allowances during the voluntary social year. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Ursula Haubner, ladies and gentlemen, on the strengthening of families with significantly disabled children by increasing family support. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this request a sign. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is rejected. [[18:53:49]] 5. Point Report of the Family Committee on the Government Template (227 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of the Society “Familie und Beruf Management GmbH” (315 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18226	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Oellinger is the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18253	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing something you have never wanted to discuss with us about, because when the Familien GmbH was established, it was, as it were, whipped through by Parliament. There were no discussions on this in the relevant Family Committee. At the time, the Federal Council and, then, well-known, some ÖVP federal councils have strongly criticized the establishment of this society together with us. [[Abg. Dolinschek: They didn't know each other!]] There were also ÖVP Federal Councils – in addition to the SPÖ and the Greens. Interesting, of course, was all that was all around. It was said by the competent Federal Minister: This is not about the supply of BZÖ-people, Mr Klubobmann Westenthaler! [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: I wasn't there at the time!]] - You weren't there at the time, yes. They were far from good and evil. But, Mr Westenthaler, these things have already been done during your time, because the people have not all been taken up at the same time, and also the most recent ones were strangely all from the BZÖ environment. As far as I am concerned, I should not be disturbed, for why should there not also be people in the BZÖ – even if one would not think it possible – who, so to speak, have the ability and competence of family policy. Only it turned out very quickly, Mrs. Haubner, that this Familien GmbH is completely unable to deal with things. Apart from the fact that all the agents that the Familien GmbH should have done were only badly done that much was disputed that little was done, nothing actually happened. Now comes an application that is only formally justified and acceptable, because it concerns the change of competence and the competence of the Ministry of Health, and before that, the Ministry of Social Affairs has been responsible or has also changed the competences and the responsibilities of the Supervisory Boards. But I say to you once again, just as in committee: We should actually discuss the abolition of this GmbH! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Then: This GmbH, Mrs. Federal Minister, has no longer deserved to work. The argument that, of course, I already admit, is worthy of consideration: Yes, but the persons are sitting in it with waterproof contracts, that does not count as well again, because so waterproof is not a contract that he could not make the fulfilment of service obligations also the subject of a resolution of the contract. [[Abg. Hörl: Eurofighter!]] Now I will not list in detail what was and is going on in this GmbH. I also read in the “Kurier” of tomorrow that now as a person you strongly stir the advertising drum for the audit family & profession. The audit family & profession would be a useful thing in itself. Just, I'm telling you, As long as it is operated by the Familien GmbH, your effort is probably forgiven. I'll tell you why. In November your effort is probably forgiven because the Familien GmbH is traveling. At least in mid-November, she is at the “family and customs fair” in Klagenfurt. This is where the Familien GmbH operates a stand. The 7th. Carinthian customs fair entitled “Old, Revitalized, ” already an interesting title, with special show “Bake at Christmas. ” There the Familien GmbH is represented with a stand and advertises. - Yes, with who? For what? For the municipal audit? For the company audit? What do they do there, except they sit in the stand? I have received an interesting address, which also gives an answer – possibly: A brief look at the website of the GmbH shows the complete ignorance of the involved ladies. But they are going to Klagenfurt with a stand at the family and customs fair. What have they lost there? They make themselves a fun travel life, live in the best hotels, pay heavily for an unnecessary stand and keep everyone to fool. I'm just wondering – I'm told by the inscription – that the owner only has to look at such drifts with no effect. I can't imagine that a customs fair is the right place for a subject such as compatibility of family and profession. But maybe there will help some titles that will be given for the best at this fair. One of the major events at this customs and family fair is the great “before-after-show”: We're changing people. This could somehow apply to this Familien GmbH. I'm afraid it's too late for that. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister, you have not made any of your scepticism about this family GmbH, I do not think it is good for you. You've taken over an inheritance for which you can't do anything. Only, Mrs. Federal Minister: Now it will be pretty slow time to act! [[Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky: That is already the case!]] – This will no longer be possible with the persons acting! That's not gonna take hold of it. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] In this sense, we will not only reject this novel, Mrs. Federal Minister, but we hope you will also take consistent steps regarding this Familien GmbH.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18347	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Eder-Gitschthaler. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18368	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! As already mentioned in the Committee, the present Federal Ministerial Law Novelle 2007 provides for a shift from the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection to the new Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth to the establishment of the Society “Family and Profession Management GmbH”. The corresponding provisions of the Federal Act on the establishment of the company “Familie und Beruf Management GmbH” should therefore be adapted. It is therefore a formal act, Mr Oellinger. We also discussed this very intensively in committee, and I also had the pleasure of being able to deliver an opinion after you. The competences are brought back to the ministry, where they really belong, where the experts are. A local overscheduling has already taken place, so that a better overview of the activities in this “family and profession management GmbH” can now take place. The Supervisory Board positions are also re-allocated. - So far to form. For the basic: The Austrian family alliance was set up in 2005 to force the compatibility of family and profession, which we have often quoted here, and thus to be able to live really, as a kind of open platform on which personalities from politics, business, science and the media meet in order to make targeted lobbying for our families. [[Abg. Oillinger: At the customs fair?]] For operational support, the same coordination body, the “Family and Profession Management GmbH”, was established. We believe that it is in principle a very important and supportive task. In my opinion, however, in order to be able to live the compatibility of family and work, we need to address the needs of children and parents much more. I mean quite specifically that, for example, the working world should in principle take more account of families. Not the families have to adapt to the needs of the working world, but vice versa: Economics and enterprises are to be taken into account, for example through more family-friendly working hours and by facilitating the return to work. Family and child friendliness are expected! Where life and family life is taken into account, loyalty is growing, motivation is increasing and absence times are falling; this also brings a competitive edge. In my opinion, this creates a win-win situation for both sides. Since 2007, a lot has continued in the “Family and Profession Management GmbH” under the leadership of the Federal Minister. I only mention the following: Cooperation with the department has been intensified, and new developments have been introduced in the field of the state-of-the-art company and local authorities, such as the audit “family-friendly community”. In the medium term, it is certainly to be considered that the “family and profession management GmbH” is due again to the ministry. The Federal Minister has also given such suggestions. But I would also like to mention: Pacta sunt servanda! I'll get you together. The compatibility of family and profession is important for us by the ÖVP. Based on freedom of choice, support and help where it is useful and necessary, and always keep in mind the child's well-being. If we manage to get the economy into the boat more and more along with the relevant framework conditions, we will also implement this central concern. With this innovation in government, we are returning the competences to where they belong, namely to the Ministry of Family Affairs. I can therefore request your approval of this formal act.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18405	The next speaker is Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18426	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, My previous speaker said it: The competences should come back to the family ministry. – Here I am entirely of your opinion and may say: We resolve this Familien GmbH and simply give the competences back to the Family Ministry! When we look at the history of this Familien GmbH, we can see that it is a very bad story, because – and we discussed it in the Committee for a very long time yesterday – there was a decision of the Council of Ministers that was whipped through. The Federal Council has tried to stop this law. This too has not succeeded. The government of that time simply whipped this thing through. It is precisely why we vote against this law and why we will not agree to this formal act either: We think this Familien GmbH is simply and simply unnecessary. It has only been founded to provide well for any officials who would never again have a political function at the time – in April 2006 when it was founded. That's what it's been. We from FPÖ were always opposed, and we were against it at the time in the Federal Council. Our only Federal Council, which we had at the time, was the Vienna Federal Councillor Harald Vilimsky, and he too voted against for precisely these reasons. Here it was just a supply to get well-dominated posts for any BZÖ functionaries who can never get back into a function. That is precisely why we are against it. You have to think about how the whole thing went. It was then in the opposition the SPÖ, the Greens and also the FPÖ; we all voted against in the Federal Council. Yesterday, however, I heard from the Committee that despite all the criticism it continues to practice, the SPÖ is very much involved in accepting this formal act, as it says. I don't quite understand that personally, because if I'm against this Familien GmbH and if I voted against it, I can't say today: Let's just move them from one ministry to the other, the main thing, the people are still being taught well! – That costs the taxpayer a lot of money! A second important aspect is that this Familien GmbH has actually done as good as nothing else. There is nothing at all that would have to show them great achievements. This is probably also the reason why there is no activity report on it to this day. To that extent, what Mr Mandak called for yesterday in the Committee, namely that there should be an activity report here – something that should actually be a matter of course – was, of course, an important objective. But I suppose there are no activities, so there is no activity report either. We will not agree to this so-called formal act for this reason either. We wish to disband this Familien GmbH at once and integrate the competences it has, however it may be, immediately into the Family Ministry. There are capable and good officials there who can do this work far better. In this sense, I would ask you, including colleagues from the Greens and the SPÖ, not to agree to this formal act and to give this Familien GmbH the pleasure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18475	Mrs Mag. Kuntzl is the next speaker. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18496	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the present government template is a purely formal act to re-occupy the Supervisory Board positions according to the redistribution of the competences to the ministries. Mrs Belakovich-Jenewein, of course we agree with this restructuring, even though I still consider this construction – I fully share your assessment – to be pointless. But now to do as if it didn't exist, it was simply to close their eyes before reality. Unfortunately, there is no sense in them, but as long as they exist – and there seems to be a broad consensus here in the house that this is obviously an end to wild history, although not short-term, but obviously we are all working on the fact that it will eventually be a positive end – one has to see, of course, that what has to be done there is handled correctly. That is why the corresponding representatives of ministries should be sent there. Yes, the meaning of this whole construction is the outsourcing of core competences of the Ministry of Family Affairs from the Ministry of Family Affairs, in order to continue to have provided not only people but also a certain political influence on the award of non-essential funds, even beyond an election situation, which Mrs Haubner had planned in his capacity as Minister of State at the time. This influence has been ensured, in one way or another, for all of us at the time, the adventurous way in which this has been tormented by Parliament, namely without consideration, without committee procedures. The Federal Council had to object to the review procedure. At that time, they signed the management function without any legal basis, and, and, and. For what? – Yes, to provide for people whose activities are still completely questionable today. Mr Oellinger described this in detail by saying: You wonder what actually happens there, except that it costs a lot of money and that a lot of money flows through! Now, after all, I find that this construction is a not really politically meaningful one, but a highly questionable one – which is an essential difference to the past. Therefore: Yes, to this formal act today, but that does not mean that this construction is now, at once, considered to be useful by us and that we support it, but we stick to our assessment that we have always had in recent years.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18535	Next speaker is Mrs Mandak. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18557	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Minister! Yes, it was very interesting in the Committee yesterday: Suddenly, all of them have passed by this Familien GmbH. Mr Dolinschek, Mrs Haubner, has raised the flags for you and has stressed how great it was, but he was the only one. All the others have either said that they have not been there or that they have been a completely different group, or they have said: We were already vehemently opposed at the time! That was the case with the Greens and the Social Democrats. Andrea Kuntzl has just described in detail and, anyway, very well how that happened at the time, namely: Up your head, very fast, without consulting. Yesterday I was pleased that Mrs. Kdolsky said: An activity report was required by this Familien GmbH; the activity will be checked, what happened there and with what use. She also said that this GmbH should be integrated into the family ministry and that it should be worked on. And she said that the legal resolution of the contracts would only be possible with a lot of money. So now we have had a society that – and I think that has been down so far – has had an annual basic funding of €523,000. I emphasize: €523,000 have been powdered into this GmbH every year! We have made a request that the young people who make the voluntary social year receive family support. This was rejected, and it was said that there was no money for it. Just as much money has been brought into this GmbH, as is missing in this other place! At the time, as Minister, you claimed, Mrs Haubner, that the control of this GmbH was ensured. Yesterday we found out in the committee that it is not even possible to gain insight into the budget of the GmbH; this is confidential because it is a GmbH. Somehow this is crazy, because it is a hundred percent daughter of the federal government and it pays for it; there we will, please, be able to see what the budget looks like! To date, we have no information about what this GmbH has done at all. Now we have prepared an additional proposal, which reads: Additional application by Mr Mandak and colleagues on the Government Template (227 d.b.) concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the establishment of the company “Familie und Beruf Management GmbH” (315 d.b.) The National Council wants to decide: The government template of a federal law that amends the federal law on the establishment of the company “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” (227 d.B.) is supplemented by the following: The following point 2a is added. _Other Organiser 2a. The following new § 3 para. 4 inserted: ‘(4) The Company shall draw up an annual activity report. In particular, it should specify the measures and priorities implemented in the calendar year in question, the budgetary and human resources necessary for this, and the objectives of the company as set out in point (b) of the first subparagraph. ==References====External links== This report shall be of the person referred to in § 1 para. 4 Federal Minister responsible to the National Council.’ Reasons: The activity of “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” takes place largely in secret. The members of the National Council, let alone the public, hardly learn anything about their activities. This, although it is classical tasks of the Ministry of Family, which have been outsourced to society. In order to counter this transparency deficit, the Society will in future prepare an annual activity report to be submitted by the Minister of Family Affairs to the National Council. Mrs Minister, when I announced this request yesterday in committee, you said very spontaneously: Very good, that finds my full support! We have also learned from the opinions of the Social Democrats and the ÖVP that they are very friendly to this in principle. The only criticism was that we did not give you this before and that you could not react so quickly in the Committee. I think it was time, and this request gives us MEPs in this House the opportunity to control what this GmbH is doing. I also think that we have the obligation to take over this control would be very pleased and expected of you, that you also follow this request as parliamentarians of this House, for which control is an important task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18641	The supplementary request put forward by Mrs Mandak is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speech is by Mr Dolinschek. 4 minutes of voluntary speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18665	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This government template is nothing but a formal act, because the agendas for which the family section is responsible were once at the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs, Generations and Consumer Protection and have now migrated through the new Ministry Act to the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth. The fact that there is now also a shift in competence in this area, that there is, as it were, a supervisory authority for the Social Ministry and that on the other hand, the impact of the Federal Chancellor is also sent with a supervisory position is one. So this is, as it were, the formal act, something that is quite normal when the Federal Ministry Act is amended. With everything that has been brought together here, I have only been amazed: what everything in the committee has been interpreted, how unimportant this “family and profession management GmbH” is actually. You've talked about mail chess and so on and so on. The fact that this institution has to present an activity report is quite normal for me; only this institution has not been available for so long, only since 2005/2006. I think it is perfectly right for an activity report to be presented, and everything should be legally monitored. That's what we're doing. If the Federal Minister Kdolsky says: I'm getting all this back to the ministry, at the moment it's all too expensive for me, these are private contracts!, and so on and so on, then it's very interesting! I am convinced that nothing will be recovered and that everything will remain that way in the future, just that other people, used by red and black in proportion, will work there. That's all! Then: The first head of this “Familie und Beruf Management GmbH”, Mrs. Federal Minister, was Mr. Danhel, was and is not a follower of the BZÖ. He didn't belong to the BZÖ, I have to say that. That's all right. “Familie und Beruf Management GmbH” has the important function of implementing measures for the compatibility of family and profession. It is a coordination and competence centre and a service centre for the care and advice of family alliances, from various platforms. In this GmbH, institutions are connected with personalities from politics, business and so on and a lobbying is carried out to further force the connection of family and profession. That's their job. Publications and information material are produced in this GmbH. A strategic public work is being carried out there. If you're talking about money here, I'm just saying one thing: Interestingly, most of the funds have been transferred to the Austrian Institute of Family Research, Mrs. Steibl. Where that belongs, you probably know best, in the sphere of influence of your group.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18717	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18739	Mr President. Minister! High house! The history of the company “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” had a lot in itself. Looking back to 2005, the Federal Council was very soon opposed, and the Federal Council has rightly stated that this bill of law of the National Council outsources core competences of the Federal Ministry. [[Abg. Hear: There speaks the right man; a fellowman!]] [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Kukacka has been a burger for 20 years!]] This led to the following negative consequences: The Federal Ministry secured a right of guidance to management. Access to the People's Procuratorate was virtually denied. The Court of Auditors was suddenly unable to intervene. [[Calls and calls between Deputies Dolinschek and Steibl.]] – Mr Dolinschek, perhaps you can calm down a little, because that is of course something that concerns you. – The contracts awarded by this GmbH are no longer subject to contract law and so on. Significant objections to the review procedure have clearly been raised against this institution, company “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH”. This was followed by a insistence decision, as Mrs Kuntzl has already said. [[Abg. Dolinschek: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Graf) And you were in Seibersdorf!]] But now, to the essential point: If we look at the corporate subject matter of this society, what is its task at all? The object of the company is to be the coordination, competence and service centre for family alliances, to set up a documentation body, to provide advice and support for regional corporate family initiatives, to write publications, to organise, to carry out technical conferences and training, to develop and promote innovative models and so on, and so on, in principle, Gelabere without end. I wonder, Mrs. Minister: Is there any point below which you could not do in the ministry? I don't think there's anything you could do in the ministry yourself. That means, even because of the statutes of this society, it is quite clear that it is completely unnecessary. No one needs it; it's completely unnecessary. Now we come to the cost: A quarter of the total budget, which is €500 000, has been powdered for the administrative effort of this society, and, as the colleague Dolinschek has already explained, € 700 000 a year is available as a basic funding for the Austrian Institute of Family Research. This means that there is no need for any current and necessary reason. What's more, Dolinschek told only a part of the truth: There were supply posts for the blacks, but of course there were also supply posts for the oranges. We are thinking of Mrs. Heike Trammer and of the former ORF moderator Theresia Zierler, who at the time were unmediable and found a good place in this society. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Loud people who could best reconcile family and profession!]] So certainly not a model of heart for a reasonable family policy. Mrs Kuntzl, you confirmed this criticism yesterday, and the Minister also said that this is not necessary. I'll tell you: If you have already said A and realized that it is not necessary to lead this society, you say B too! Be so consistent, say openly that you want to dissolve them! Give me a time frame! Don't write it somewhere in the wind, but tell it quite openly if there is a time horizon within which you want to proceed! Then it would be clear that you mean it honestly. Finally, another important question: It is always spoken of the compatibility of work and family. The question, which is crucial, cannot be ignored in this whole discussion and also in the Committee, namely: Who says that mothers really want to go back to work during the childhood phase? Did anyone in the family ministry remember at that time that there are mothers who want to stay with their children at this stage? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Did anyone ever ask if there might be children who would like to have their mothers with them and not want to be moved into childcare facilities? [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The children are not pushed off, but they are well cared for by professionals!]] This great idea, which I hear again and again today, 50 000 additional childcare places: Is that necessary, or is this perhaps an outflow of your meagre social policy that you want to pursue? I think that this question must also be allowed, and if we want to talk about Austrian families properly, we should also ask whether these guidelines are the right policy path.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18862	The next item is the speech by Mr Principality. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18883	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! One thing, I think, can be clearly stated in advance: Under the auspices of our family minister Andrea Kdolsky, the company “Familie & Beruf Management GmbH” is in good and competent hands. At the beginning of her term of office, the Minister requested an appropriate activity report and carefully reviewed the attendance records of the staff. In addition, it has also brought society closer to itself spatially and has transferred its headquarters directly to the ministry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] After the spatial connection of the GmbH for family and profession will now also be sought and implemented in the future. A resolution of the society, as it has already been called for here, is currently not possible for legal and financial reasons, nor is it necessary immediately, because the intention of the foundation of society was quite understandable. As a dedicated coordination body between the authorities, the economy and the families, the compatibility of the family and the profession should be improved and, above all, better anchored in the awareness of the population, the public. Unfortunately, the commitment of the employees of the company was limited. But now our Lady Minister has given a keen attention to the activities of society, and this will continue to change a lot in the future. It would therefore be appropriate to look forward and discuss opportunities that give the economy, in particular, the necessary impetus to better understand the needs of families and to integrate them into the company's philosophy. There are quite a few positive approaches that need to be stepped up in the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18924	The next speaker is Mrs Binder-Maier. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18946	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klement, I think that we are not putting children into childcare facilities, but in childcare facilities we are doing excellent, highly qualified work for children and children. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, this proposal is a necessary adjustment. Clear responsibilities must be given. In principle, I remain in my opinion, which I said before the establishment of this GmbH, that it is the objective of this agency to distribute money without directives, without criteria, without parliamentary control and without transparency and transparency. – And today, almost two years later? The agency worked. Mr Dolinschek said that she had put forward a wealth of measures. – I just would have liked to see one of them or even see one publication. I also believe, however, that in the context of the compatibility of work and family, we still have a lot of work to do, many tasks need to be solved, legal standards must be set in order to facilitate the lives of people who have care obligations, care obligations. Mrs Minister, you meant in the committee that this agency would be indispensable to you, too. The problem is the existing contracts. We could think about the contracts once, I would say. And then we will certainly agree with your request to close this agency and reintegrate it into the ministry. And by the way – one last word – I regret that we did not come to a joint request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e18992	Mrs Haubner is next on the list of speakers. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19014	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I think that one should first talk about what was the fundamental intensification of the foundation of this family & profession GmbH. [[Abg. Oillinger: But we're a little late now!]] The basis was the knowledge that the compatibility of work and family should not only be discussed and stimulated at the political level, but that you must find and invite a wide variety of partners to make this reconciliation of work and family viable. And this new partnership has also reflected itself in this Familien GmbH, I am now saying the short half of FBG. At the beginning, in 2006, there were five thematic priorities [[Abg. Riepl: A utility company was that, otherwise nothing at all!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: It was just about supply posts!]] The family-friendly working world; the family-friendly community; the family alliance as a platform, which was also founded by the then government with a very large public, media-active event; the innovative childcare, an important approach, because at that time these 700 000 € for innovative childcare were the only thing that was possible to create childcare places; and a good foundation for family research. It has been shown, and this shows up to the present day that the working world has a very important role to play in bringing family and work into line. It has been mentioned very often today that in family policy, although financial services are very, very necessary, we need as good care services as we need, and above all we also need alliance with companies and with the economy. And the idea of a centre of competence, the idea of a service centre – and we have discussed it very intensively here in Parliament too, Mr Oellinger, and as you have rightly said, it has also been discussed very intensively in the Federal Council – has emerged from an EU model project carried out with three countries. At that time, it was found that this was a good way to act quickly and take unbureaucratic measures, and that was and was the meaning of these FBG. If it says here, you don't know what the FBG is doing, I can't judge that this year. I can only judge this as one which is also represented in a municipal council. The municipal council of my municipality, with a unanimous decision, has found that we want to start as a family friendly community, and here for example we have the support of the FBG. [[Abg. Ollinger: That would be a case then!]] Or: Each of you receives the newspaper “COMMUNAL”. [[The speaker keeps this magazine up to date.]] It is currently being advertised for innovative childcare. Since I have heard, Mrs. Federal Minister, that the premises of the FBG are now back in the ministry, I would ask that you perhaps improve this, because here is still the old address: Aspernbrückengasse. This would be particularly important for the communities. [[Abg. Oillinger: There's a post order!]] I would like to say one more thing: If people are always judged here, who have proved great abilities in this area, in family policy, especially – the current managing director who performs these tasks, is a distinguished official of the family ministry – then I think it is unfair to comment on reviews without knowing what these qualifications are and what is being done here. That is why I am very much in favour of an activity report. There is nothing to object to an activity report that we are then discussing here. That is right and good, because I think we must all consider what measures can be taken in the future for families in Austria. The fact that we are not quite wrong with such an institution shows many imitators from other countries as well. It was not about it that during the German Presidency Germany, the European Alliance for Families proposed. Especially the Germans made themselves smart at the time with us, in the family ministry, but also in the FBG, and have appreciated what possibilities we have created. Therefore, without defaming everything, we should definitely get an activity report presented, in any case we should consider all the measures implemented from auditing and family-friendly communities to innovative childcare now, because it is ultimately about lobbying for the families. Here, too, I see my role as a parliamentarian, and I think that Mrs Federal Minister will look at exactly what is to be done here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19109	The next speaker is Mrs Schönpass. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19133	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In summary, I would like to point out that today’s draft amending the Federal Act on the establishment of the “Family and Profession Management GmbH” aims to clarify that the agents for this society now fall within the competence of the new Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth. The first sign of this responsibility was the integration of the location of the society into the house of the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth. The Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection receives a mandate in the Supervisory Board as well as in the area of women's affairs in the Federal Chancellery and the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains to be hoped that through this formal act more transparency will come to this GmbH. Ms Kdolsky, a certificate award for audits on the profession and family as well as family-friendly communities are welcome. However, whether it is necessary for its own GmbH with high effort, remains questionable. Mrs. Minister, return your inheritance!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19163	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lohfeyer. Also 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19184	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! It has already been mentioned by some previous speakers that this Familien GmbH was from the beginning a dubious establishment of the black-orange government, an expensive construction with unclear objectives and with high administrative effort. The company has non-indebted funds to promote childcare facilities, which is hardly known to the public, nor does the audit family and profession, from which certificates are awarded to projects and companies that particularly promote the compatibility of family and work. The amendment of the law is a purely formal act, which has already been mentioned several times, and I see this only as a first step so that, with the re-casting of the supervisory positions, it finally comes to the control of the allocation of funding and also transparency of the content of the priorities and objectives. The demand for an annual reporting of the activities of this GmbH and the necessary financial resources therefore also finds my full approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19212	From the government bank, Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky spoke. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19233	Mr President. Honourable Members! High house! I would like to stress that the responsibility for this GmbH, as mentioned several times, has migrated from Federal Minister Haubner to my place of business in spring, to the health, family and youth resort, and that today's novel will ultimately bring about an adaptation of competence in the light of the amended Federal Ministerial Law and thus A necessary and for me important change in the composition of the Supervisory Board has been made. In the future, four ministries, namely the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour as an important partner, as mentioned several times, will dominate the compatibility, the Federal Ministry of Social Affairs and Consumer Protection as a representative of social protection, but also of the men in the families, the Ministry of Women as a lobby of women's interests and the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth as a truer of the interests of children and young people, but also of the families in this institution. That's actually the original reason. Let me just say three things: I don't think we should do anything wrong in the past; the intention was right, the compatibility of work and family. The question is: How can I achieve such a thing? It is also the intention to create a point of contact for the various parties involved in these structures. I only believe – and I am deeply convinced – that all these competences, which are also included in the law, can be carried by very competent partners in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, by officials of the Federal Ministry. Therefore, first of all, we have requested an activity report, second, we also demand corresponding records, thirdly, we implement a corresponding integration of local nature into the ministry, and here in discussions with the contract holders and relevant legal advice we will see that we can ultimately bring all these competences back to the Federal Ministry. I think that's a real step. Unfortunately, I can't make any specific dates yet. The lawyers among you know that it is not always easy to create solutions, especially in the field of labour law. We're about to do it. I think that's the right way. I therefore ask, in the sense of this exercise of competence, that I can also do these activities in order to give your consent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19275	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law in 227 of the supplements. Mr Mandak, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have tabled an additional request. I shall therefore first vote on this supplementary proposal and then on the draft law as it stands. Mr Mandak, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have tabled an additional request for the inclusion of point 2a. I am looking for a sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt of the draft government proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who speak for it to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:43:16]] 6. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (231, B.C.E._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Criminal Procedure Code 1975, the Criminal Code and the Youth Court Act 1988 (Strafprocedural Reform Accompanying Act I) (273 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19346	We're on the 6th. Agenda item. I am speaking to the rapporteur, Mr Ablinger, in order to make a print error correction on point 6. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19367	Mr President. I present the following print error correction: In Article I, point 115, the text of the amendment is as follows: ‘To replace the heading of the XX. The title of the main piece is as follows:” – Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19394	I would like to thank the rapporteur. The print error correction is under negotiation. We are now entering the debate. The first speaker is Mr. Dr. Fichtenbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19437	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I do not write any speeches in principle. I can confess openly that I do not literally make it possible for my emotional life to be well-being in everyday life, to write a speech I would have to give to me literally. It's against my nature. As a practicing lawyer, I know that this is always wrong if you write down a plea before, because the process is usually completely different. I also have to get out of Parliament with this property – and you with me. I do not have a written speech; I have some of the texts of the law which I think might reach and I would like to speak shortly thereafter. Of course, it is true that the revision of criminal trial law had been a concern for decades and we can consider a first part, namely, the preliminary proceedings, to be done with the criminal trial novel that was decided in 2004. After all, the tribal law was from 1872, half of it from the time of the pure Scriptural process, was then a radically modern law, whose radicality we can no longer appreciate enough. It was a turning point from the written secret process to the public oral process, with the coinage primacy involving the people in legal proceedings in the form of lay court. These are still pillars of the character of criminal trial law, which, however, was high time to reform, because parts of the legal understanding out of which the legal creation of the law at that time has explained itself and the partly in superfluous formalistics are no longer understandable and have called for reform, in particular, the provision of § 281 StPO, which is the appeal procedure. In line with today's circumstances, with the introduction of a preliminary procedure led by the prosecutor in cooperation with the police as an investigative authority, it was decided to restrict judicial participation in the preliminary proceedings to decide on intervention in fundamental rights. This is, in principle, a right and consistent path. It is therefore obvious that it will be seen with a certain tension, as the new law will prove. The accompanying law, which is pending today, is in a point outside the sphere of our consent, because, contrary to the precepts made in the committee, Article II gives the wrong statement equal ground if it is done before the police as well as in court. As a practical defender, I tell you that it is necessary to recognize that these circumstances cannot already be equated with the practical procedures and that the theory of the so-called uniform procedural right – that is a beautiful term that is passed on to the above – does not address these concerns. – That is why we will not agree to this law at second reading. I come to talk about something else. In the last sentence of paragraph 1, there is the new provision in the provision of Section 71 of the Criminal Procedures Regulation on Private Prosecutors and Subsidiary Deputies, which provides that an investigation procedure does not take place. This is a defect that has been discussed in informal preliminary discussions, but has not been found in a correction. This means that, in particular, in the case of private indictment offences, in most cases offences committed anonymously, the current instrument, which was still available, namely that the true perpetrators are identified in the preliminary proceedings, is absent. This is a smooth evil situation, which is compensated for by nothing and the processual means a disadvantage of a victim affected by a private debt offence. ==References== It is still possible to provide assistance to such a victim in the preliminary proceedings on December 2007. The argument that due to an application to be filed immediately for the adoption of a property order is contrary to compensation is incorrect. I believe that this point should still be corrected. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19494	The next speaker was Mr Jarolim. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague, you are speaking. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (on the way to the speaker's desk) No, that's shorter!]] - 3 minutes, yes.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19531	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a largely incontrovertible matter that we decide here today. It is the accompanying measures that are the pre-procedural novels, which do with 1. January 2008 will enter into force and will also be duly redirected in the main proceedings. A number of additional rules have been created, which are very useful and which, in particular, improve the situation for the victims. In principle, the series follows: There is also the possibility that the defender will make a counter-expression to the indictment. This means that, at the beginning of the procedure, the positions can be better referred to on both sides. This is certainly very beneficial for the invention of truth, but also for the way in which the procedure is carried out, in the sense of a process economy. - That's the one point. The second point is that there is now also the possibility of using private experts. We know that the complexity of individual questions is quite so great that it is necessary for the court to contribute experts here. It is now also possible that private experts can now be taught by the parties, by the defendant, to prepare the evidence procedure in order to support matters of clarification. A complaint of invalidity, a restricted complaint to the victim, complements the bow of improvements in the rights of victims, as well as the basic novel, which comes with 1. In January 2008, the victim situation was improved. § 42 StGB – a discussion that has been held for a long time; it is abandoned – finds its equivalent in § 191 StPO; in other words, there is still the means of setting up proceedings in the event of shortages. We have also tabled an amendment where some points are further clarified. One was the question of complaints and opposition to authorised investigation measures; different treatments are now treated in a uniform manner. Another provision that will no longer make it easy for Mr Schaller to appear again in the future is that over 70-year-olds who are included in the list of defenders will only be active with regard to the mandates already given. There is another provision which is very important: § 166, the finding that confessions made by torture are ineffective for the procedure. I think it's essentially a good addition. There will certainly continue to be discussions, there will continue to be experience that meets the needs of action necessary in the context of the implementation of the new preliminary procedure. In that sense, I think we're on our way here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19582	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19604	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Values Advisor, if any! On the one hand, it is stated once from the BZÖ that, in principle, we agree with the necessary conceptual adjustments through the Criminal Process Reform Accompanying Act I and also many other points mentioned in this Reform Accompanying Act. However, it is important for me to highlight two essential points for the BZÖ, which are absolutely unacceptable to us and which will also lead to the fact that we have tabled a request for a separate vote that we will not agree to the overall package at third reading. On the one hand, it is about the defensive ownership of notaries, which by means of this accompanying law and an abolition of the defender's list as at 31. ==References====External links== ==References== On the basis of the definition in § 48 para. 1 Z 4 of the StPO, which provides that only lawyers, otherwise legally entitled to represent in criminal proceedings, may act as defenders in criminal law. Thus, this law will regulate the withdrawal of a right to defence from the notaries. This cannot be carried by us. We do not have enough to justify or announce to the Federal Minister, both in the Committee and in other meetings, that the power to represent the notaries will continue to exist at the regional level. It is also not true, as the Ministry of Justice has repeatedly said, that the Notarial Chamber would agree. There are other letters to us! I can also tell you: Explain It is not only the notaries, the rural population, who would suffer the most, if the notaries no longer have the power to represent in criminal proceedings, but also explain this to the local authorities, bodies and organizations that support the concerns of the notaries, why they want to take this defence authority to the notaries! This request was supported by the Austrian Notarial Chamber for the maintenance of the criminal defence authority: the Office of the Vorarlberg State Government, the Office of the Carinthian State Government, the Presidential Conference of the Agricultural Chambers of Austria, the Austrian City Association, the Economic Chamber of Austria, the Federal Chamber of Labour, the Upper Regional Court of Vienna, the Landesgericht Korneuburg and the Head of State of Tyrol. That is, if you look at this list alone, it is no longer correct in content to talk about it, but this was often claimed by the Ministry of Justice in previous discussions that it is no longer necessary to equip these few notaries with a defensive property. The fact is that at least 23 percent of the notaries were still registered in the current list of defenders in January 2006 and 29 percent of the notaries. That means that these are not a few notaries that it's about here, but it's an essential number. Furthermore, your argumentation is absolutely incomprehensible for us – and then I ask for an explanation – why a notary who is a criminal lawyer should no longer have the right to defend in criminal law if it is equally capable of a lawyer who is a criminal lawyer, or on the other hand, professors who may act absolutely in practice, may continue to do so. But notaries should not be able to do that anymore. This is not understandable for us, but not only not comprehensible, but in addition to this regulation there is still this transitional arrangement, which provides that the notaries from 70 years of age, if they are still active at that time, may no longer adopt further cases. This is certainly also unconstitutional and illegal in Europe. That is to say, we cannot support this regulation alone for this reason and, above all, because of the fact that rural areas will be extremely disadvantaged. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Secondly, I would like to focus briefly on the issue of the criminality of the false evidence in an investigation procedure before the criminal police and the prosecutor's office, because, in accordance with Articles II Z 9, 10 and 11, it is planned to provide for this criminality by up to three years in prison. In this context, the BZÖ only criticises the irregularity of this scheme, as § 288 para. 1 of the StGB the formal hearing on the matter is provided for, but in paragraph 4, which is to be inserted by this law, this formal hearing no longer occurs, but it is very likely that this criminality will be increased to three years, which actually corresponds to the false statement in court. However, both the criminal police and the prosecutor's office are authorities, and these should be regulated in accordance with § 289 as administrative authorities, in which, in the case of a false statement, a criminality is foreseen for up to one year. That is to say, in accordance with the system, it would be to increase either the criminality of administrative authorities for three years or to leave the criminality of false statements before the police, criminal police, prosecutors – if they are already authorities – in one year. For these two reasons, as has been said, I have only the opportunity to propose to the BZÖ Parliamentary Club that I do not agree with the overall package of this Criminal Procedure Reform Act at the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19682	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19703	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been pointed out several times today, it is about making some necessary adjustments to the introduction of the 2003 amendments to the criminal proceedings, which will apply from next year onwards. Since this decision has been a few years ago and will not come into force until next year, that is to say, a very long preparation period behind us, I would like to remind you briefly of the reasons for this pre-procedure reform. It was also a very long, very intense discussion, which was held with many experts, and which ultimately led to this pre-procedural reform. I still consider them to be good and important, and we will see from next year whether the expectations we, I believe, can all be fulfilled in this preliminary process reform. It has been true that, in practice, the preliminary procedure was not the same as originally the concept of this preliminary procedure, namely that the investigative authorities determine very independently that the investigative judge was, as it were, leading and lived the investigations and that it was therefore decided to focus the prosecutor's office, to appoint the prosecutor as lord of the investigation procedure. Thus, the prosecutor will have many possibilities in the future to influence and also manage the investigations through the investigative authorities, and only more, when it comes to fundamental rights intervention, will there be a call from the court, the investigating judge, who then has to decide on these fundamental rights interventions, speak of investigations, such as house searches, or arrest warrants. The adjustments we are deciding on here today are a wide variety of forms. It is, of course, about adapting certain terms to the new preliminary procedure and, on the other hand, also about strengthening the rights of victims. This has been a very important issue in recent years, and it has been decided after the decision on the pre-procedural reform, which is now also being taken in criminal proceedings. The Commission will be responsible for the implementation of the common In the course of the negotiations, of course, the protection of the victims, the possibility for victims to participate in criminal proceedings, the possibility of the victims finally receiving an advocating their claims in criminal proceedings, and yet not too long to delay the criminal proceedings, which are, of course, aimed at another purpose, namely the guilt or innocence of an accused person, of choosing an accused person. I believe that a good solution has been found here, which will ensure in the future that victims will be really included, that they will also be informed about their rights and that they will have the opportunity to assert these rights and join in criminal proceedings. All in all, I believe that this first adaptation – a second one is on the way – is an important step and that we can decide on it together today. This is especially addressed to the colleagues of the FPÖ and the BZÖ, who have raised some concerns here, but only in small sub-areas. I believe – and we have discussed this too – that, of course, one can now show these concerns, but in the end they do not have to lead to the rejection of the package. In particular, I am surprised at the fact that these two groups – and I think this is the right thing to do – continue to stress the importance of persecuting offenders to the extent that they have concerns in particular in view of the fact that a false statement before the investigating authorities, in front of the investigating authorities, should be less severely punished before an administrative authority, because, in the end, I believe, one must also see such a false statement at the beginning of the procedure has far more serious consequences, much more adverse consequences than in the main proceedings themselves. That is why we are well aware of the fact that we are dealing with the same thing in the end, and I would therefore invite you to give your assent on this point as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19755	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 6 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19776	Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to the present draft on the Criminal Process Reform Act, also because it will bring improvements to victims and accused persons. But there is one point – and it is the same point that has already been raised by BZÖ and FPÖ – which we see critically and which has also been discussed more often with the Federal Minister, that is the equality of the false statement before the criminal police with that in front of the court. So far, the Criminal Code has clearly distinguished between criminal acts against the law enforcement and false evidence before the administrative authority and has also linked a different criminal framework, namely once three years and once a year. Obviously, the law wanted to say that if one makes a false statement before a court than if one does it before an administrative authority, there is a greater lack of action. This principle is now being broken. In our opinion, it would have been enough to make the wrong According to § 289, which is false statement before an administrative authority, to punish. We were not in favour of the false statement before the criminal police. The arguments for the increase do not convince. One argument we hear time and again is: After the StPO, the criminal police now have a very central position. – I would like to remind you that the Greens, namely my predecessor, Teresa Stoisits, have repeatedly criticized the fact that the criminal police in StPO have a too central position. The second argument that comes back over and over again is that you say: It is necessary to give the police with a high criminal framework the incentive to adapt the hearing standards to those of the courts. – I can only say: It can't be that the criminal police guarantee high standards of hearing only if they are lured with a high criminal framework! If we set high standards of consultation for the police here, they must be complied with, regardless of the criminal framework attached to it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, we also agree with the government proposal for another reason: because it has been disintegrated in an essential point in relation to the ministerial draft. The draft ministerial draft has also provided for a so-called "Legal Journalist" section, namely a criminal penalty when a journalist makes a banned publication. This would have meant that journalists would have to work in a grey area in the future, because it is very difficult for them to estimate whether there are any legitimate interests and whether they are punishable. This proposal, Mrs Bundesminister, was wrong – but you recognized it and then changed it in the government template. And I think you have to pay tribute to that, and other ministers could take an example. If I look, for example, at the embarrassing persistence of Minister of the Interior Platter still adheres to the law on foreign affairs, although it is long clear that this law needs to be amended, I recommend that he take an example from his colleague, Mr Berger: This one's learning! If something doesn't make sense, the opposition can also say that, and then you react to it. All in all, you have to say: Of course, banned publications are a problem. But we are not in favour of passing over with the culprit of criminal law, but there we need the fine blade of media rights – and no criminalization of journalists. Overall – and this is what we have debated in the Committee – the debate on the reform is not over with today's law on decision-making. The debate on reform must continue. A reform – which the old Federal Government has still decided – of the preliminary procedure must also be considered, a key word of defence rights; or, as far as the main procedure is concerned, we will certainly discuss the extension of the rights of victims here sometime. In this sense, I hope that there will be further innovations in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19837	The next speaker is Mr Pendl. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19859	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The current adjustments are, in fact, available in: It's a consensus matter. It is important, I believe, that the rights of victims, as some previous speakers have already said, are strengthened that we also have the right to withdraw trust in the JGG for violent and sexual victims. So you could mention a wide range of improvements here. I think this is going in the right direction, because we all have a great expectation, even in relation to the StPO reform. Mrs Berger, you did not have a slight heritage. The elaboration of each decision – I am curious about how this will be handled, because of course that is also very much personal, that is not a question at all. But I would also like to say an invitation and a request here: I remember very well: When, in the run-up to this reform, and especially in the context of the “Team 04” reform, we discussed, all political groups were of the same opinion that the government reform must also be implemented. And I believe and I am convinced that this will work glaringly in the area of justice. However, as far as the interaction of justice and home affairs is concerned, I believe it would be necessary for us to regulate this area of the authorities here too, in order to be able to see together that this reform is an excellent reform. I would like to end by thanking you, Mrs Bundesminister Berger, for your team, but also all the staff in your department for the good cooperation and for the excellent service.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19898	Next, Mr Magistrate. Ikrath to speak. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19919	Mr President. Ms. Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Today we have the Criminal Process Reform Act. I have never made any sense that I consider the new preliminary procedure with its core, the uniform investigation procedure, to be a very positive development in order to increase the efficiency of our entire judicial system – by reducing double-tracks, by more clarity, more clarity in the assignment of tasks. What I can't understand and attribute to the usual neurotic relationship of the Greens to the police is that Mr Steinhauser is once again challenging the role of the criminal police in the preliminary proceedings. – It is the criminal police in their operational role very clearly embedded in the law framework of the prosecutor's office. And, as far as civil rights and human rights are concerned, the court is again called upon to give appropriate consent. And I also do not understand Mr Darmann's objections on this point, because, as my previous speaker, Mr Donnerbauer, has already said, I have been of the opinion that, in particular, the oranges, the alliance, are interested in an effective investigation work and that the criminal police are therefore the same weight as the court when it comes to false statements and effectiveness. Finally, I particularly welcome the fact that victim protection will be given an increased importance and that the rights of victim protection have even been extended. Finally, I would like to stress the following aspect: It is also very important for an economic location to ensure clear rules for justice and effective justice. And one of the reasons that Austria has now risen from the eleventh to the eighth place in the Business Competitiveness Index is also effective and reliable justice in our country. And I thank the Minister of Justice for that.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19962	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e19983	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! This law again represents a step forward with regard to the improved position of victims, even though it is mainly about adaptations. It shows, however, the clear manuscript of Mrs Bundesminister Maria Berger, namely the question of expanding the rights of victims and providing the best possible support to those concerned. [[Abg. Lutz Weinzinger: Bravo, Federal Minister!]] [[Complementary of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek, which by gesticulation towards the Abg. Weinzinger's request to likewise give condolences.]] However, I would like to point out a special aspect, namely the gentle agreement, that is, the statement of a victim without the presence of the perpetrator, which has already taken place, inter alia, in the case of unmistakable sexual sacrifices, on its own initiative, and is provided for in the case of monthly sexual sacrifices on request, and so on. Unfortunately, it is the case that various representatives of NGOs keep getting information that judges refuse to give these rights to the victims. I can also give you examples. First case, in Upper Austria: A fifteen - year - old sexual victim would theoretically have the right to a gentle agreement, which was refused by the competent judge. – Second case, in Lower Austria: A ten-year-old sexual victim was denied the mandatory right to gentle consent by a judge – and this, although it would have been, as just emphasized, compelling. The justification of the judges is usually the same, namely that they want to save the victim suffering. – Apart from the fact that the trial in itself is probably already a huge burden on the victim, I do not understand that one saves the victim suffering by once again facing the perpetrator and then lets the whole suffering story tell again and thus brings it under quite unimaginable pressure. Another reason seems more logical to me, namely not to open up the possibility that victims might fail a procedure and that the procedure would have to be re-rolled. But I don't want to put something under anyone's feet now, but I think that this could be due to the tense personnel situation – with Federal Minister Maria Berger as the first minister for seven years at last working on the fact that this situation is relaxing. I am very much in favour of victims having a chance to draw the judge or judge's attention to the gentle request, including a sanction when the judge or judge refuses to do so. This law now provides, at least for the future investigation procedure, for the possibility of a complaint; an adequate provision is missing for the main proceedings. I'm open to everything. There would be the possibility of an invalidity complaint. However, I also understand the reasons that are against it, namely that the victims really have to live through everything again. On the other hand, however, it would be a means of printing so that this situation cannot arise at all. I think, however, that other appeals or instructions or round tables, such as the Minister Berger plans, with prosecutors, NGOs representatives, judges, trial attendants, could already produce a lot on this issue. In the interests of those concerned, I believe it is extremely important that we observe how the gentle consultation is handled, and that we counter it when it comes to wrong decisions. I think our goal must be that the victims can know their rights and take advantage of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20029	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20050	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As has already been pointed out, this novel now creates adaptations and implementing provisions in relation to the criminal process reform law adopted in 2004. With regard to victim protection, the previous speaker has already carried out a lot of work. I would like to limit myself to two areas relating to the Jugendgerichtsgesetz. It is now true that the investigation procedures are in principle carried out by the prosecutor's office, and it is made clear that the court of appeal is already to be informed at that time. The Pflegschaftsgericht then has to have family and youth welfare measures at risk of the personal development of young people. And I can say from my practice – probably there will be no change in practice, thanks to God – as a social worker, when you have to carry out youth court surveys: That is to say, it goes to the district administration authority of the Jugendgerichtsbogen, the social workers make house visits, and then in the discussions one tries to calm the parents at first, which is sometimes necessary, but also to determine the motivation of the young people and to find out whether this was a one-time thing, a youthful stupidity, or whether this can ultimately have consequences, because it happened in the form of a band formation and so on. – These surveys then go back to the Pflegschaftsgericht, and measures are then carried out in this regard. I also welcome the innovation that will eliminate the absolute legal exclusion of the division in the area of young people in the event of death. Unfortunately, many accidents occur with young people – far too many! – and imagine, a youth causes a fatal accident in which a close relative dies due to negligence. This fact alone, in most cases, is a heavy psychological burden for the youth concerned, which is often and often punishable enough. It will certainly not be easy to estimate the decision to make for a positive development of young people. I think that social services, such as administrative criminal proceedings in the context of the crimes under the Youth Protection Act, are very valuable here for educational purposes. To give young people an opportunity is and remains an essential principle for the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20089	The next speech is by Mrs Rudas. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20111	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Since there is such a great consensus, I will not take up the 3 minutes, but I would like to take the opportunity to say that you, Mrs Minister, once again have proved by this law that judicial policy can also be social policy, especially as regards my target group, the young people. I would like to stress three points, namely – first – that now only the court of appeal decides whether a young person is at risk of developing if he is suspected of having committed a crime. Secondly, I would like to stress the changes for young people in the process of disversion, and thirdly, that young people are no longer heard without a trusted person. This change of law will make the rights of young people more transparent and, above all, more transparent for young people, and this has been very important and necessary in the sense of participation. I hope that justice policy will continue to be a social policy in the future. But I am very confident. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20151	The next speaker is Mrs Steibl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20173	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This Criminal Process Accompanying Act also manifests the strengthening of victim rights. And, ladies and gentlemen, I think that an important complex should not be mentioned in connection with crimes and victims: The centres of violence play a very important, yes, central role and are also doing very, very good work here, not only since the entry into force of the Violence Act, but also in many other areas, also in the area of rapid and active assistance, which victims receive through these intervention and violence centres. These victim protection centers also work closely with the police. They provide rapid and active support to victims of violence. The Anti-Violence Act has, as it were, proved to be a living instrument for the protection of violence. The number of directions has increased in recent years. You can see this positively, but also negatively. But I think it's positive to show that, and it's to hope that these numbers might actually fall. In this sense, I would like to thank all the institutions, non-profit organizations and institutions that are committed to improving and ensuring victims.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20212	The next speech is by Mr Magistrate. Maier vor. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20233	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The S & D Group has tabled resolutions in 2001 and 2003 to improve the position of private individuals in the criminal procedure. We see with today's law our goals realized at the time – I quote –: “More and better rights for individuals are needed in the criminal procedure. A change in the law should, among other things, lead to a change in the law. experience from the most recent "Monster Procedures", such as the Bautrehand Immag Power Process 1 or currently the Kaprun Process. It cannot be said that injured individuals – as in the WEB-1 procedure – must wait almost 13 years for a criminal judgment and then be referred to civil courts.” High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This law is now to be decided in criminal proceedings on civil claims. Persons who have been injured by a crime may join the proceedings as private parties and only in exceptional cases may the court withdraw its decision in this regard. We see this as an essential part of improving the rights of victims in general. I refer only to the provision of § 66 of the Criminal Procedure Order, where the subject-matter of the victims was regulated, to §§ 67 to 69, where the rights of private parties were regulated, and to § 366, where the procedures on private legal claims were now regulated, overall, an improvement. I would just like to point out that the AMIS process is currently under way, and it would be good if the injured would already have the opportunity to join the proceedings as private participants – what they have – but the judges should also decide. I recall the Kaprun process and, of course, the WEB process. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! To the law as a whole, perhaps one more thing: This law will only succeed if the interface problem with the security authority or with the criminal police is resolved. I must maintain this with all clarity, because it is not clear who really is contact for justice in the field of the countries. Is it the criminal office in a city, for example, the city of Salzburg, or the state criminal office? There is no crime allocation, and I really want to point out this problem with all the clarity. In conclusion: The reform of the public authorities in this area is still pending, and it is also necessary to ensure that the reform of criminal proceedings, to which we confess ourselves, has the necessary success. I wish all, the judges, the prosecutors and the non-judicial staff, who by this law with 1. January 2008, have a lot of success – and of course you, Federal Minister Berger, too.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20280	The next item is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20303	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It has already been said almost everything; I would therefore only like to look more closely at sexual criminal law and the protection of young people. In the field of youth protection, particular attention should be paid to the redesign of the provision on child pornography, § 207. So far, the criminality of possession and trading of pornographic representations from minors until the complete 14th century. ==References====External links== ==References====External links== Year of life widened, with virtual representations now also being recorded. Austria is not a targeted production country of child pornography in international comparison, but every case is a case too much. All the more so, downloading from the Internet and possession of child pornography in our country makes for excitement. Investigators are often surprised by the high number of suspects in Austria. I am thinking here of the many operations of the Austrian executive, which have been found together with the investigators from other countries, and of the fact that the business with child pornography probably exceeds drug trafficking. This law means protecting our children, it means improving the protection of the victims, but also the elimination of double conduct. Therefore, it is a pity that not all parties can go along.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20342	The next speaker is Mr Glaser. Also 2 minutes speaking time. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20364	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This law ensures, among other things, a uniform structure of the preliminary procedure, and I believe that this is one of the major changes. In future, the prosecution will conduct the investigation in cooperation with the criminal police. So there is no longer any differentiation between judicial preliminary surveys and a judicial preliminary investigation. It is also clear from this common ground that a false statement, for example before the criminal police, or before the prosecutor and court, has about the same value that has the same consequences, which has not been the case so far. However, it is not quite clear here that there should be different criminal frameworks here. As a major step forward, I also believe that – Mr Maier has already done it – private parties can join in criminal proceedings in the future, because this is really often time-consuming and nervous civil proceedings can be avoided. A note, Mrs. Federal Minister, to the recently installed Justice Office in your ministry: The fact that there is a real need for such an institution shows the apparent strong opposition to this point. However, it seems to me personally that it is not entirely clear to me that officials of the judicial system should be in charge of complaints against officials and procedures of the judicial apparatus. I believe that the way we then proposed to set up an independent independent lawyer, installed by Parliament, would have been much more reasonable. But after all, It is also a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20397	The next speaker is Mrs Stadler. Also 2 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20418	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Criminal Process Reform Act fundamentally renews the pre-procedure of the Criminal Procedure Code, and in the course of this renewal a number of adjustments are made. We have already heard from some, and I would like to comment briefly on the amendment of the Jugendgerichtsgesetz. In the future, the Youth Court will be in charge of young people who have become criminal, in all cases. I think it's right and important that we accompany young people even when they've done a stupid thing. Especially for young people, it is important that we try to give them accompaniment by means of Diversion, and thus try to prevent them from learning the criminal craft. Young people deserve a second and, if necessary, a third chance. This applies to all areas. Our youth also deserves us to be very strong for them. Especially in the youth age, the chance for a positive influence is very great. I therefore very much welcome this amendment to the Jugendgerichtsgesetz and see it as an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20452	Mrs Bundesminister Dr. Berger spoke from the government bank. - Please, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20473	Thank you very much, Mr President, and also thanks to all those who have generally appreciated this project – I think it is actually a project that deserves the addition “historical” – and which have also devoted itself to some aspects that are very diverse. Of course, all aspects of my heart are at my heart, and I hope that with 1. January is now starting to work well. But I am particularly pleased with the recognition that the improvements in victim protection have found, because I really believe that this has taken a very decisive step towards improving the legal status of victims in criminal proceedings and, in particular, making criminal proceedings more tolerable to them by extending the gentle consent. I am sorry that there are individual circumstances – relatively smaller – that do not allow all political groups to agree. On the issue of the uniform criminal framework for the false testimony, Mr Donnerbauer and, indirectly, Mr Steinhauser have already put forward the arguments. For us, it is simply important that the statement before the criminal authorities, even before the security authorities, be at least equated with those in court, because these statements can, of course, determine the investigations very strongly and be more misleading than the statements in court. Mr Darmann, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on the proposal from the Commission to the We have tried a number of times to discuss this. I can only say that we see in the Professional Change Act, which has happened to the Council of Ministers today, yes, that notaries may continue to make criminal representations before district courts in the future. In practice, although many notaries are still listed, this possibility hardly plays a role anymore. I myself come from the rural area and have to say that there would hardly be anyone with us coming to the idea of being outside of an administration. criminal proceedings, which may be related to commercial law, should be referred to a notary in criminal matters. I am grateful for the recognition that we have taken out one section on the forbidden publication. This does not mean, however, that we do not have a problem with publications, as they happen in connection with criminal proceedings, but we will actually have to solve this in the context of media law. With regard to the question of the administration on the part of the Ministry of the Interior or the security authorities, I actually have to appeal that, of course, it would be very important for the prosecutors to have very clear interfaces here and to know who on the other hand is responsible for which offence. With this reform, we have now presented the large package, so to speak. It will be necessary – and this has already been announced – a second package of legal accompanying legislation, which will soon be in the Committee. I also have to point out that, in such a comprehensive reform, of course, very profound organisational, human and other measures are also necessary, which have now been and have been the absolute priority for us. We will be able to increase the prosecutors very, very clearly, both with prosecutors and with non-judicial staff. We will be able to use more than 120 prosecutors in addition. I would also like to thank Mr Vice-Chancellor, who, as Minister of Finance, has made it possible to provide for staff increases in this area as well. We want to further strengthen the public prosecutors as a whole: through more organisational independence, through a changed right of service. I believe that the public prosecutors in their new role should also have been mentioned as a central body of justice also in the Austrian federal constitution. Trainings have been taking place for a long time, so that the prosecutors in particular, but also the judges – and here I take the note that this unfortunately does not work with the gentle consultation in some cases – do so accordingly. And we have also greatly expanded victim protection in the sense that there is a new coordination body and that more resources are available for process support. Here the victim protection organizations are certainly doing great work, and I would like to join these organisations with the thanks of Mrs Steibl. And because the ombudsmen we now have with 2. In November, the following questions were addressed: We have a huge number of cases of business in justice. We have a year – new! – 3.6 million cases. We do not want to deny that there can be a serious situation here. We do not want to deny the fact that the current complaint system may not have satisfied today's claims either. That is why these new ombudsmen are very well accepted. These are not officials in the sense, but they are judges who are very committed, very experienced, and the population likes to accept it. Especially the fact that someone is listening now and not just doing something in writing is very important. I would also like to point out that this model is in line with the Government Convention, where there is a reference to in-house judicial bodies dealing with complaints. Finally, I should like to thank all those who have been involved in the debate and now also in the amendments, and, of course, in this thanks also to the officials of the Ministry of Justice. You can imagine the work behind it. There are other parts now. In criminal law, we also have other projects to deal with this House. That is why a very warm thanks from this point of view! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20542	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft federal law, which amends the Rules of Procedure 1975, the Criminal Code, the Youth Court Act 1988 and the Financial Criminal Law, in 273 of the Supplements, taking into account the correction of the print error made by the rapporteur. Hiezu is in favour of separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Mr Darmann. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. There is also a desire for separate vote by the honourable Member Mag. Steinhauser before. I will therefore vote on the parts affected by the request for a separate vote and then on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on, as amended by the Committee's report. We shall first proceed to a separate vote with regard to Rule I.Z. 234 lit. (b) in the version of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule II Z 9 as amended by the Committee's report. I would ask those Members of the House who are here to give a sign of this. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Rule II Z 10 as amended by the Committee's report. In the event of approval, I would ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Rule II Z 11 as amended by the Committee's report. I would like to ask the Members of the House who are here for a positive sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. We shall also vote separately with regard to Articles II Z 12 to 15 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are here for a sign. – This is the majority and therefore adopted. Finally, I would like to refer to the remaining parts of the draft law which have not yet been voted on, including the title and receipt of the Committee's report. vote on the amendments tabled by the rapporteur. I am looking for a positive sign for those ladies and gentlemen who are speaking for it. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:42:16]] 7. Point Report of the Constitutional Committee on the Government Template (202 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Law on Federal Statistics (Federal Statistics Act 2000) (311 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20645	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Marizzi. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20672	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Statistics Austria works very well. We agree with the legal changes on the agenda today, and we agree unanimously, but let me make a few comments on statistics, on the statistical complex. I think it is necessary that we update and modernise statistics in the near future in order to get a better grip on important policy decisions. Mr Niederwieser has already said in the Constitutional Committee that since 2003 we no longer have the school statistics. We do not have data on household income, we do not have data on the distribution of assets, and we do not have data on real estate values, buildings, forests, infrastructure of the Republic. In the future, we need to take these elements as the basis for modern statistics in order to make better decisions. We would like to give our approval to this new law.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20702	The next speaker is Mr Schelling. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20724	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mein Ladies and gentlemen! At first glance, such a decision appears as a pure routine, that we send another member to the Statistical Council, a representative of the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth. However, if you note how often the word “statistics” has already fallen, you can see how much this House, politics and many other decision-makers depend on this data. I would like to draw attention to three particular aspects, including the importance of this proposal. On the one hand, health data has become more and more important in recent years. Many decisions we have to make, especially on structural, social policy or sustainable decisions, are to be made on the basis of these statistics. On the other hand, we need this data when it comes to improving quality in order to recognise trends and developments in good time and to help us prepare these data for decision-making. Third, the Statistical Council takes responsibility for the medium-term work programmes and the budgets, makes important recommendations on the design of administrative data and helps coordinate the ministries and institutions of the statistics of the Federal and European Union. In the Constitutional Committee, we have already dealt with the 2005 and 2006 Statistical Council report, and it is precisely in these reports that it is clear what important recommendations are made by this Council. On the one hand, the Council rightly calls for the necessary legal bases to be established in time for us to have up-to-date data in the ministries – in interaction with ministerial responsibility. This Statistical Council also recommends minimizing the load and providing sufficient information to the data subjects concerned, as well as a discharge by improving the use of administrative data and data simulations in order to avoid primary surveys. Finally, the Statistical Council calls for satisfactory transparency in the provision of information and uniformity in the presentation. Ladies and gentlemen! In the context of the evaluation of the statistical institutes of the European Union in the individual states, 21 statistical offices have so far been evaluated – and of these 21 statistical offices who are in the first place? – The Statistics Austria! That is why I would like to thank the employees of Statistics Austria, the members of the Statistical Council. We will, of course, continue to ensure from Austria that important new findings of statistics also take place at European level. We shall therefore vote in favour of this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20775	The next speaker is Mr Brosz. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20796	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! First of all, the content of these new laws, namely the extension of the statistical council by a person nominated by the Federal Ministry of Health, Family and Youth. We have also agreed to this change in committee. However, what we have also noted is that the Statistical Council, consisting of currently 15 persons, is currently composed of 13 men and two women, and that it is likely to have a certain influence on statistical issues, whether the Council is some sort of gender-parityal. It is particularly noteworthy that four persons were sent by the Federal Chancellery and all four were men. Mr State Secretary, you have already pointed out in the Committee that the nomination has run for five years, i.e. the responsibility of the former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany who is sitting here. and that this will be changed in the next nomination. You should really pay attention to this. In the first speech, it has already been noted that no mention has been made in these reports in the Constitutional Committee on Education Statistics. This seems remarkable in view of the current debate that we have had in the school sector over and over again, because that we have a lack of data in the field of education, I believe, is undisputed. To this end, you have answered in the Committee that the amendment to the Education Documentation Act is now changing the basics. I would also like to say that this is not the case because no changes are planned on the basis of the survey. The things that are missing now will be missing even if the question of data protection is better taken into account, but that does not change anything about the basics. I do not think it can be assumed that all that is currently regulated is sufficient to answer political questions. That is a very important point. If we need data in the field of education, then it can't be that the ministry always cleans down and says that does before the Statistics Austria. What statistics Austria does not do in the context of a quantitative survey, we do not have because many questions do not directly refer to the individual because, for example, the question of school classes is logically not raised about individuals. The fact is that on the question of the performance groups in Austria, which is in discussion and where the ÖVP has repeatedly stressed how “super” the performance groups work, we have received numbers from a single federal state on a parliamentary request here in the house and in all nine federal states, how this rise works, which is always announced, namely promotion, and then one comes up. Eight federal states say they have no data. The Ministry also says there are no data available. This shows that we have a clear need for reflection in the field of statistics. This law will not change this, but I hope that appropriate policy measures will also be followed so that we can have the basis for setting political accents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20842	The next speaker is Mr Dr. Haimbuchner. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20863	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, To get rid of the tension: The Freedom Party will also agree to this government proposal. You also have to say: We are less concerned that of 15 members, only a few are women. As I said, it would be recommended if it were more ladies, I would be happy personally too, but you don't have to change the whole life so to speak. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: But it's okay, isn't it?]] So it may also be where more men are. But what's interesting about this whole thing: So far you have had 15 members, now you need 16. Obviously it is the case that the proporz has kept moving in again, and you have to look again, that there are eight black and eight red. That's a critical point. As a further criticism, I would like to refer briefly to the activity report of the Statistical Council, which is about the recommendation on the national accounts. It has been criticised that, despite the request of the Statistical Council, not enough funds are made available to carry out this national economic account. That's what I'm asking myself: While there is money for another member of the Statistical Council, the financial resources for necessary work requested by the Statistical Council will not be made available once again. Mr President, I would ask you to comment on why there is no money for this, but I would like to ask you to make enough money available for increased proportions. So that can't be our way. Otherwise, you can only confirm what Dr. Schelling said: Statistics Austria is doing very good work. We too live from the opposition very often from the statistics that are provided to us. In so far as there is also a warm thanks to those responsible for doing this work for the Republic. But, of course, we are also committed to ensuring that there is enough money to ensure that all activities can be properly carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20900	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20921	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I should also like to thank the Austrian Statistical Institute for providing very valuable data and figures, which are for us guidance and the basis for making policy decisions. I also say that it is very constructive on the part of the opposition to support this measure to increase the Council of Statistics from 15 to 16 people, because this does not necessarily have to be a matter of detail, considering that at the time of our government participation it was always a sting and break, not only the Council of Statistics, but also the number of members in Supervisory Board functions to increase the number of members of Advisory Boards et cetera. That wasn't a premeditated thing. We are generally saying that it is good to make available also to the Statistics Austria profound ladies and gentlemen who are watching what data is important to us as a decision-making basis. We will therefore also support this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20951	The next speaker is Mr Donabauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e20973	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Neither the political composition nor the question of women/men stands for discussion, but only the increase of the Council of Statistics from 15 to 16 members. I think that this is important and right, and this is also stated in the government paper: It is clearly pointed out that it makes sense, in particular, when health statistics are gaining more and more importance. And I hope that the good work of the Federal Office will not only be used here in this way, but that the results can also be published accordingly. Personally, I would like to see a better networking with Eurostat in the future. I think that we should work together more because in political work we need this transverse view. Secondly, it is good and right if we apply this also in relevant policy. I believe that if, for example, we have discussions on social policy, these statistics can help us very impressively. We have them, and it can apply them to everyone in a way that he believes; but overall, this data material is a clear basis for policy orientation, and I hope that this will continue in the future – especially cooperation with science and research. This too, I believe, is a very important process. We will, of course, give our approval to this government template, because it makes sense to extend this Council of Statistics.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21009	Mr Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter spoke from the government bank. Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21030	Mr President. High house! I would like to focus briefly on the open points. It is known that the Statistical Council has a very important role to play: the control of statistics Austria, the control of compliance with the principles laid down by federal law or EU standards in the daily work of Statistics Austria. It works very well. However, with regard to the composition of the Statistical Council, it is also necessary to see that the necessary competence is included in its mixture. This is the basis for the expansion of a health expert – not, as was assumed, the question of a proportion. With regard to the composition of the Council of Statistics in relation to the genders, I should like to expressly point out at this point, including in the representative of the Federal Chancellor, that in the Federal Government's orders on the next round, special attention is paid to the fact that there is also an expert representation of both sexes. The issue of educational documentation has already been discussed in the Committee for a longer time. It is clear that we obviously have problems in acquiring the basic data here. However, there is an effort to achieve a significant improvement in educational documentation. I think, and that was clear in the Committee, that all political groups wish for better date-by-date preparation of the education sector. I am convinced that legislation and cooperation will improve. As regards the questions raised regarding the costs of another member, I can inform you that the meeting fee is €72 per meeting, on average, depending on the presence, around €280 per year. The cost of a further index, i.e. an index different from the EU standards, would have been around €250 000. A few hundred years would thus be financed by the participation of another member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21067	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 202 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously and therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's unanimity. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:59:20]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Mr Sabine Mandak, Members of Parliament concerning a federal law establishing a four-week right of exemption for fathers after the birth of their child (father's month) (357/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21124	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. I call Mrs Mandak. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21151	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have discussed the introduction of a father month here in the house several times. We Greens see this as a complement to our karenz model, which provides for the introduction of an income-dependent karenz money. The main objective of all these measures is to allow fathers and mothers to share employment and family work. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] Why a father month in addition? – The father month has the important task of establishing a bond with the child in the first weeks, strengthening the bond with the child, and solving the question of the division of tasks within the family on the one hand. There are certainly also some men for whom it is very important to lose the initial shyness that some just have left. Finally, it is also a matter of relief from mothers who, of course, can use support very well in the first few weeks. And who would be better suited than the father. We know that's what social minister Buchinger sees. It was not until August of this year that he proposed that there should be a papa-month to pay up to €800. This is also the direction of our proposal. We would like to see such a father month introduced. We know that there are very acceptable signals for this – at least from the SPÖ side. We must first look at the way the ÖVP does. In parallel to this request, we have tabled a motion for a resolution on the re-doting of the family compensation fund, because it is clear to us that this measure will cost money. We expect costs of about €4 million. It is important to us that the family compensation fund is reorganised independently of this measure, made fairer, so that it is also ensured that payments can be made in a sustainable manner and that a solid financing structure is ensured. Unfortunately, this is not available at the moment, because not all who receive benefits from the FLAF also pay in these. In this sense, we are excited about the discussions in the Family Committee and would, of course, be very pleased about your support.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21197	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21218	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The Green Group is taking up a long-term concern of the SPÖs with this request. I have tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter during the last legislative period. I think that I find the building blocks of this request in this proposal which the Green Group has tabled today, even if the model has not been adopted 1 : 1. As Mrs Mandak mentioned earlier, Minister Buchinger once again promised his support for this issue a few months ago. There are many good reasons for this. Of course, the first month of life is a particularly significant one, both in relation to the relationship between the parents and the newborn child, as well as in the development of the partnership under new conditions, namely that such a father-month can result in a partnership not then being drawn into old patterns of roles, that perhaps even later the fathers take care of themselves more, perhaps also later on using father-care, et cetera. So there are many good reasons for that. I think a father-month would also be a useful complement, another building block in a package of family policy measures that we should link in this legislative period. The model of the greens is now on the table. I share the concern. There are different ideas which models might be. And I too am looking forward to the discussion in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21248	The next item is the speech by Mr Sieber. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21270	Madam President. High house! The present proposal for the introduction of a father's month can be overcome by a lot. But I would like to go to the meeting – as a four-fold father I can say – that at the time when you became a father, you are as motivated at work as rarely before, because you simply know: Now it's about my family, and I don't want to take this away from the fathers. A manko in this proposal is that he only applies to three-quarters of all fathers, because the self-employed are excluded from it. It is also true, Mrs Mandak, that you can now apply for a care week if you need it, and with this, I think, a lot of hardness can be ridden. But one thing is special, dear friends of the Greens: Mr Oellinger has just said that other political groups are living on the foot of war with grammar. Mr Steinhauser said that many of the other political groups were at war with mathematics. Mrs Mandak, if I now make your request and look at your examples, I have to say: I'll figure it out like this: 50 000 possible cases times € 800 per month are not € 4 million, but € 40 million. – I therefore have to say: A little more care in your applications would be necessary! I just want to say one more thing: One really hopes that the Green Group will never have anything to do with the budget in the House, in our country. And: What we can contribute to this from the EIA will be done.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21306	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr Belakovich-Jenewein. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21328	Madam President. High house! Of course, the Papa Moon is very tempting at the first moment. But if you look at the request a little more closely, you can see the detail. Of course, the thing has two sides. I agree with many of my previous speakers when they say – and this is what Mr Kuntzl and Mr Mandak have said – that this is an important phase in family togetherness, partnership. On the other hand, we also need to see the impact on the economy. A mandatory possibility is a real problem for micro-enterprises in particular. I think there is a good approach here, I say now, the idea that the fathers can and may stay at home, because the thing with the care leave is a bit wacky. Not every father gets care leave immediately, and not every birth causes a care holiday. Therefore, the possibility should be given to the fathers to stay at home. This is only the first reading, so we still have a lot of discussion. I'm convinced or I hope we'll find a common way here because I like this idea. However, we would like to amend the proposal in this form a little bit. In general, the dad-month is, I would say, not bad from the idea. It is also something we as a family party would like to support – but not in this form. But I'm looking forward to the discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21358	The next item is the speech by Mrs Haubner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21395	Madam President. High house! The present request of the Greens regarding a father month on the occasion of the birth of a child must certainly be recovered. We have discussed this very often during the last legislative period, particularly in the context of the introduction of child care funds to strengthen the role of the father. I can only mention a few numbers. In 2006, 970 fathers cared for their children at home in the first year of life. 1 620 fathers were in the second year of the child's life. And over 3,000 men chose to care for their child in the third year of life. – So you see, When the offer is appropriate, fathers are absolutely willing to participate in the important division of work and private work, to do educational work and to take care of the child. My previous speakers have already said: The birth of a child is a very incisive experience, not only for the mother, but also for the father. And if he wants to, he should be given the opportunity to stay at home with the child. For us from the BZÖ, only a voluntarily chosen father month can be imagined, we do not want any obligation to do so. I think we will look at the different models and then discuss them constructively in committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21434	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21455	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! It's actually a shame that today's the business speaker of the Greens, Mr Mag. Rossmann, not there, because I would already be interested in what he has to say as an economic operator – and he has very good approaches in himself – in connection with the discharge of small and medium-sized enterprises, because from the point of view of the economy, this so-called Papa-Monat is simply not easy. I don't know how you imagine this: Do you also want to burden the small and medium-sized enterprises with this Papa month? Even if you say that the further payment of the wage is not required, but the state is used to do so, you must be aware that it is impossible for a small company with five or six employees to spend one month each year or possibly twice a year on an additional employee. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] Mrs Mandak, if you know that over the past year 60 percent of small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria have lost their profits and you still want to impose additional burdens on them, I wonder: Where do you think that's supposed to lead? If the economy no longer works, then we are not going well – and I can remember the saying of the ÖVP economy – but then we are all worse. And then we can no longer finance such things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21495	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I give the request 357/A to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. [[21:11:48]] 9. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Peter Westenthaler, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Criminal Code (414/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21534	We're now on the 9th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Darmann. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21563	Madam President. High house! I am allowed to discuss with the honourable Members a request from Members of Westenthal, Darmann, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Criminal Book Act, but the members of the Justice Committee may assume that they are already informed of this, as we have already dealt with this issue in the Justice Committee. Unfortunately, in the Committee on Justice, the examination of this request has been postponed by the votes of the government parties, and it has been recognised that positive signals were given by both the FPÖ and the ÖVPs, who obviously did not want to talk about this subject, although the SPÖ, although it is not only a right one, but also an urgent issue, has allowed it to break, to say that something will be in preparation here anyway and will be implemented sometime in the future. The fact is that we learn from the media weekly about malicious crimes and crimes against children and that the last anti-criminal liberals must also be convinced that it is right, important and urgent to keep persons who commit crimes against children away from child souls or children as long as possible. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] As an example of the BZÖ’s misdemeanor in relation to the currently too low and too few penalties in this context – so I do not mean that we are criticising the judiciary, but it is simply a basis for a judicial decision to act in a certain criminal framework; therefore, this should not be understood as a criticism of or an influence on judicial decisions – I would like to cite a case of child abuse in Innsbruck, which has been sexually abused last year and has only been sentenced to two years of partial imprisonment. Not least, such examples have prompted the BZÖ to do so – and I would like to say that the BZÖ has been dealing not only with this subject for a few months, but has always been trying to lift this criminal framework – with this request that you have here today to ask for several points. On the one hand, the BZÖ intends to raise the minimum penalties or the criminal framework for sexual offences, for the respective basic offence to 10 to 15 years, for the fundamental offence with a serious consequence to 15 to 20 years and for sexual offences that lead to death, to an absolute life-long imprisonment. With “absolute” I mean that life must also remain for life. Thus, in logical consequence, a conditional release in the event of a life-long imprisonment in this context is excluded. As a second point, which emerges from this request, we see a mandatory criminal framework shift also in all other offences related to children. That is to say, all the crimes of violence and other offences such as necessity and the like, should lead to an increase in the criminal framework due to the particular reprehensibleness of the act and the special protectiveness of our children. Furthermore, in the case of such a criminal framework shift upwards, a conditional dismissal should only be possible if two experts separately confirm the integrity of the right-wing breaker for the future. A third point also concerns the neglect and quelling of children in criminal framework increases. As I said at the beginning of my remarks, a similar or almost equivalent request was already present in the Committee on Justice. However, his treatment has only experienced a delay. I would ask you to look at this essential and very important issue in the Committee in all its details, or to deal with it, because the fact is: It is high time to set a legislative sign! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21625	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer's speech. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21646	Madam President. High house! I think that Madam President Glawischnig has once started a speech with the words: “The Murmeltier greets me every day!” – I think that’s what happens to me today. Then: At the last meeting, we had a debate on a urgent request from the BZÖ, in which we discussed the sense of stronger penalties for sexual offenders. Last time, it was found almost unanimously that sharper penalties alone do not help the victims. But obviously the representatives of the BZÖ did not understand this correctly or they did not listen properly, so I say it again today: It does nothing to the victims if the perpetrators are locked away for even longer. To demand more and more severe punishments is useless; this does not wrap the evil at the root. By the way, Mr. Ing. Westenthaler then, when I said that, asked by interlocutory call: What's the use of the victims? – I then explained it to him, but obviously it didn’t happen to him. That's why I explain it to him again. – Unfortunately, he's not here now, but maybe you can do it to him. We know very well that criminals who are being treated have a much lower relapse rate. So we need accompanying measures. There must be therapies during detention. And after the arrest, there must be a care or some kind of judicial supervision for sexual offenders. [[Abg. May. Darmann: In addition!]] We need more staff in psychotherapy, we need more therapists and therapists, but also more staff for perpetrator care and victim care. [[Abg. May. Darmann: In addition!]] It is also important to take measures to reduce the darkness of sexual offences. Victims must also have the courage and the opportunity to repay ad, and we must support it. This is what the Minister of Justice is working on. [[Abg. May. Darmann: (Keeping the application in height) The SPÖ should have the courage to implement it!]] As one of her first measures, the Minister of Justice has called for a comprehensive package of victim protection, increased the funds for this, reformed the hotline, and so on. The Minister of Justice would also like to have an evaluation of the judgments of the judges, for there is sometimes some of the criminal framework that is being passed apart. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think anyone in this room or anyone would be impoverished or negated by sexual criminal offences at all, but the focus must be on the best possible protection of the victims. [[Abg. May. Darmann: (Keeping the request up again) That's a part of it!]] It is not a question of extending criminal frameworks over and over again, but of effectively implementing existing measures, such as – and this has already happened – the extension of the sexual offender assessment centre and so on. I mean, you should work with that – and not constantly, constantly, constantly, repeatedly, make populist requests so that people are insecure, fear-stirring and thus distracting from the real problems. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21749	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Kapeller. 2 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21770	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA is, of course, for all measures that are appropriate to protect children from crimes in general and from sexual assaults and abuses. But we also think that a debate on the minimum level of punishment in this area alone is too little. This issue has to be debated extensively in the Committee. We are open to all discussions on this issue, of course also for your proposals. That is why I am excited about the discussions in the Committee on Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21797	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Steinhauser. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21819	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Darmann, I must correct you: We are very happy to discuss this issue. I do not think you can discuss often enough, because, although we have often discussed with you, you are still standing by with your theses. First point: Life-long must stay for life!, you said. – There are two models; a somewhat archaic one, that is the leitmotiv atonement and revenge; that represents the BZÖ. But this is not necessarily in line with European legal culture – let us say it kindly. Our model, the green model, has other leitmotivs. We say that security and resocialisation are at the centre. That is why we have the proposal that if someone has been given a lifetime to check after 20 years whether this person is still dangerous or not. If it's not dangerous, we're freed. If it is dangerous, it will, of course, remain in prison. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Who takes responsibility for the review?]] Second interesting and questionable point is the doubling of the criminal framework for offences against children. – Undisputed: Crimes to children are serious offences that result in serious damage. But you must always ask if your actions lead to the goal. I would like to explain it to you on the basis of a group of perpetrators, where we cannot be put to the vote again, that we have sympathy for these perpetrators, because the sympathy for this group of perpetrators lies rather with FPÖ and BZÖ, namely for the perpetrators' group. That's where you can send greetings from this culprit group. I mean the ban law. By the beginning of the 1990s, there were high minimum penalties, but no convictions. Then you went down with the minimum penalties – and from the mid-1990s the half-paintball team of colleague Strache and the half-du-friendly team of Jörg Haider were sentenced. What do we learn from it? – It is paradoxical, but in certain offences it is so that the minimum criminal framework is too high. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Where are we?]] Then, in border cases, the inclination of judges to condemn is small. - That's it. What does that mean? – Your proposal leads to your indirect favor of perpetrators because they may not be condemned for the higher minimum penalties. We are in favour of a different proposal. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let's discuss whether it's possible to consider offences to children as a source of difficulty! This will mean that the existing criminal framework will be used up, that there may be higher penalties in the event of serious offences; this is a sensible measure in contrast to yours, which will lead to fewer convictions. Clearly, too – and this must be borne in mind at this point – punishments have the character of social values. We say we don't want these crimes, but they don't offer any protection on their own. But there we are again at the debate last time. And I cannot repeat myself because of the short speaking time, even if it would obviously be useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21877	Mr Fichtenbauer spoke as the next speaker. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21899	Madam President. High court! [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] With complete prevention of any reflection on the previous speaker: The thing is too serious to make a response with ideological scavengers, which in the Greens immediately catch up as Pawlow’s reflex and thus immediately cause brain performance to pass. I have something else in my heart. This issue is truly serious enough instead of answering it with comical laughter. In tomorrow’s newspapers, the death of a child of one and a half years is reported, which is obvious by the parents, I say once, has been killed. [[The speaker keeps an issue of the “Kronen-Zeitung” up to date.]] And then there is an element that always plays in child abuse that leads to serious injuries or death. These are family relationships that have always been known and often looked away by the youth welfare authorities. If you do such a thing, I ask – then the Freedom Party will demand – that a criminal framework of five to ten years be introduced for persons who have to provide public services in youth welfare and who are involved in the failure of these services to die or seriously violate a child. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21946	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 414/A to the Committee on Justice. [[21:25:38]] 10. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988 (436/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e21985	We reach the 10th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. First of all, the applicant, Mr Bucher, receives a four-minute voluntary limit on speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22013	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! This is an initiative that we have already proposed several times here in the House, which we are also convinced that it will be implemented in the future. The question is only when the government parties can get together to put this action, i.e. the shift in the annual income limits, and thus the elimination of the cold progression that has existed for 20 years and the income, especially the middle class in Austria, is enormously decimating the middle incomes. We are convinced that this would be a useful measure to strengthen the internal economy. Over 4 million taxpayers would be affected. There would be an additional €525 available per taxpayer per year. That would be our proposal for which we advertise. I already know that many EIA politicians are now going to be covered, because they are convinced that it is a good proposal, but it cannot be implemented because of a lack of agreement with the SPÖ. I wish you every success from ÖVP and SPÖ in the convictions of your clients, especially when you know that the Economic Federation on the one hand wishes to take fiscal measures and calls on the government to finally turn on the tax screw. I also know that, on the other hand, the ÖGB has taken a principle decision to reduce taxes, that auditors, the media and, above all, the people, for whom we are all sitting here in this House, expect one of us, in this good economic situation, to also decide on tax reliefs. In this way, I am delighted to go into the Committee's deliberations, and I hope that you may have an opinion on our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22050	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22071	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! However, this proposal is very exciting. Either you mean this differently than it says here: This will result in a person who has a tax base of €25 000 a year having exactly €0 discharge through this proposal, but who has a national council member €5 000 discharge or just over €5 000 a year. Or: If I take the formula you write here yourself, if I just put in the income, someone who has 25 000 € tax base will pay not as now just over 1 000 € a year, but 4 000 €. So you should be clear about what you even want. Their intention leads to national council members like us paying €5,000 less tax per year. I do not see now the big social problem in our income class, that we absolutely have to be burdened out. However, your proposal reduces the average income by exactly €0, i.e. up to €25 000 for an annual tax base by exactly €0. [[Abg. Sound: You didn't read it properly!]] Of course, we will not have to have this proposal, because you are absolutely right. But I would ask you to review your formula once again until we can discuss it in the Financial Committee. This formula here leads exactly to the opposite of what you have said. In principle, I think, everyone is entitled to put in place a proposal for a tax reform here. We will also discuss this jointly in the course of the debate on tax reform. But this will certainly not come because what you're writing here, you can't want to do it yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22111	The next speaker was Mr Obernoster. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22132	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! On the basis of this request, I would like to say: The EIA is always there when it comes to discharges for citizens, but of course under other conditions. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the FPÖ]] A tax relief can only come if we can afford it and if not the next generation has to pay for it. The next tax reform is on the doorstep. It will be implemented in 2010, as it should not only lead to a tax reform but also to a simplification of tax rights. [[Abg. May. Darmann: Too late!]] The last tax reform in 2004/2005 has brought about €3 billion to employees and employers. As this proposal is coming from the BZÖ, I would also like to say quite clearly: One should not only demand it, but also put it where one has the power to do so, such as in Carinthia. In Carinthia, BZÖ is going another way. At the time, the federal government reduced its taxes. In Carinthia, the taxes, the municipal taxes and the state charges were thus increased so that the reliefs brought by the federal government almost ended. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22173	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22194	Madam President. I already see some progress in the BZE proposal, namely in that Mr Bucher told us five times before. For years another song on the flat tax has sung. I'm glad we're out of this stage. So thank you for allowing yourself to participate in a progressive tax model and we can agree on it. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The proposal, Mr Bucher, even if you have already brought it several times, is nevertheless too little in our view. We believe that the annual income limits should be indexed at all tax levels or tax classes. “indexed” means that they can be adjusted annually, so that at least part of the cold progression, which lies at the rate of inflation, can be eliminated, and not so this year – in so far as you are quite right with the proposal – the Minister for Finance through cold progression, on the one hand, creates an extra bonus in an excess that hardly anyone can understand and wants to face up to the price increases that exist on the other hand.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22233	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. You want to talk for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22254	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today the “Kronen Zeitung” is again entitled: Tanks who don't. We were able to talk a little bit about that even in the afternoon. Let's go back to September! Inflation rate over 2 percent, the food prices partly exceed 3 percent. We have already made a number of requests for discharges from the Austrian population. It is a joke when Mr Obernosterer mentions that the ÖVP is always involved in the discharge of the population. – Yes, she is already there, but only when it comes to adjourning such requests. We can do something about this proposal. Of course, the discharge of medium and lower income is also an objective of the Freedom Party, with one added: This is also a social aspect. For us, the discharge of the families is our top priority. We will not get rid of our family tax division model. And if the ÖVP already has the good approaches to implement such a thing, then it should not only talk about it, but also do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22281	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with the request 436/A to the Financial Committee. [[21:34:28]] 11th@item: inlistbox Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act in 1988 (438/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22321	We're on the 11th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. - Please. [[Abg. Bucher talks to Abg. Krainer.]] (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22360	Madam President. This is another initiative request from us, which deals with the overtime surcharges and other supplements, which aims to ensure that the diligent and the skilled in our country are not taxed for up to 20 hours a month, but that we also leave the money for their surplus benefits. This would amount to approximately €300 million in tax downtime. This would therefore also strengthen the middle class, which is important, especially for the strengthening of the internal economy, because we know that it concerns those levels of citizens who invest this money immediately in consumption. I hope that you are also in favour of this proposal, and I also expect a lively discussion in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22388	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Arbitrator. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22409	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if one wants to seriously discuss the request and also the interest expressed in the explanatory statement, namely to create an income improvement, then it is also important to focus once on the employment situation of the people in that country, i.e. to create a higher level of employment. Therefore, such proposals should always be critically examined and not put in place isolated measures, but this should be seen in conjunction with the economic impact, namely: What effect does overtime have on employment? Can I not put in place other measures that are even employment-enhancing? What do part-time workers have of this measure? – Nothing at all, because they are not affected by the overtime, because only overtime occurs after they have worked longer. And the third thing to mention in this context is that it is also not useful to adopt unilateral measures, but if, then, in the context of a complete tax reform, discharge and collective reform. In this sense, we will also conduct this discussion in this direction in the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22442	The next speaker is Mr Steindl. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22464	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the valorization of income and wage tax rates is necessary in the near future. We know this, Mr Bucher, but everything at his time. You know that under the Schüsel II government, we have made a corresponding tax relief – including with your help – of the largest tax relief of €3 billion in the Second Republic. I remember when you were less donation at the time. But apparently the location determines the position. Today you are much more profitable in this direction. But I have also looked at some of the requests you have made in the House recently. This was mainly about transfers, for example, the increase in the amount of care, the support of women over 60, the allowance for childcare, heating and so on. But, of course, on the one hand, you also demand a balanced budget. How all this should go, you have to explain that to me! If you were to implement these measures, which you are calling for today with these requests, then you would have an extra burden or a loss of revenue of over €2 billion; then this is not quite logical to understand. We remain loyal to our responsible policy, we will take legal action in the planned tax reform 2009/2010 and continue the discharge policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22503	The next speaker was Mr Oellinger. 3 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22524	I won't have to take out the 3 minutes. The first thing I wanted to say to you, Mr. Bucher: In my opinion, they are based on a false assumption that only the medium-sized person is able to accept these challenges that you want to meet. No, it's not. Only the point is that very many simple workers are already involved in working time models that largely replace overtime by more hours or by annual working time models. But work many people do more than just the successful middle class. Of course, the model you propose would use most. But you're not saying that. - But be it. This is still not the point, but the other point is, of course, that we actually want to relieve people of overtime, especially in certain situations of life. This model would make the most of the men. And I'm very grateful for the hint I just got before I started to talk there: I was reminded of the speech of a Member who meant that the men work a lot, especially when the children come to the world because they have a family to care for. Especially we think of the Greens, then the men should, no matter if they are middle class, underlayer or top layer – no matter what! – the possibility of less work. And in total, I believe that our society does not suffer from too little work, but from too much work, and that this may result in more damage – certainly if one would also be particularly favourable to tax.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22577	The next item is Mr Weinzinger. 2 minutes desired speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22600	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In my decades of professional experience as a tax advisor, I have never believed that you can have so different and, in part, amusing opinions about some paragraphs of income tax law. The proposal put forward by the BZÖ is very interesting; it is an old, often called demand of the FPÖ. [[Abg. Ollinger: I thought so!]] We are very interested in discussing this and perhaps also in bringing in another aspect in addition to the fact that men, when women have children, should work less. This is also a special idea that you can think about. [[Abg. Brosz: But these are the children we are talking about now!]] [[Further calls.]] But it is also about the fact that, through fiscal measures, tax reliefs, the problem of undeclared work may get a little under control, not excessive, not total, no question at all, but at least a little. And there's something else about it: A tax reduction does not necessarily mean that the Minister of Finance deserves less, that less money flows into the pocket of the Minister of Finance. Tax reductions may even result in more tax in the final effect. Ladies and gentlemen, we will also consider and discuss these discussions within the Committee. - I'm looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22660	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with request 438/A to the Financial Committee. [[21:43:06]] 12. Point First reading: Request by Mr Josef Bucher, colleagues, concerning a federal law amending the Income Tax Act 1988 (439/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22699	We're on the 12th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The debate is closed. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22727	Madam President. High house! Yes, we have now discussed some fiscal measures – nothing new. The positions are not necessarily new and dissuasive, but I have essentially expected nothing else. It was not to be expected either. [[Abg. Oillingers: They were always for the flat tax! There's progress already!]] I expected the coalition to say: The time isn't right. We did ourselves in 2010. The real reason is probably that you will not agree on a tax reform and move it as far as possible into the future, because the different positions do not allow you to agree on tax relief. There are positions far too far away from each other, and therefore no one who can estimate the situation in some way and above all knows the circumstances – that is likely to happen to you when you hear the argument of the ÖVP – expects you to reach an agreement, which will result in a tax relief. This proposal, which we are proposing here, is an increase in the negative tax from 110 to 200 €, is a proposal that has come from Mr Matznetter during the last legislative period, a proposal for which we have always had sympathy. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 220, when we are exact!]] And if today’s ÖVP says that we were not so donor in the time when we carried government responsibility, then I can ask you of the ÖVP to also bear in mind that we now have an economic growth of 3.4 percent, and in 2001/2003, when we made the most important decisions for discharge 2004/2005 – big tax reform: 3 billion volumes – we had an economic growth of less than 2%. As I said, we now have 3.4 percent. We will have €11 billion in tax revenue in 2011. You won't stand the pressure, I can tell you today. You yourself have the relevant ÖGB decisions, you have the economic federal decisions, and the population insists that you lower the taxes. You will not endure this by 2010, I can tell you today, and all serious observers are of this opinion. The economic researchers also demand this. And, Mr Weinzinger, there have You were right: Tax relief often leads to additional revenue if it is done properly. And we have seen that at Köst, how the revenue is bubbling: through proper measures at the right time. Now, however, it would also be a good time to continue the fiscal plans we have adopted in the tax reform commission of the last legislative period, rather than moving them into the future, just because you cannot agree. I would like to ask you to take the concerns and, above all, the fears and needs of the people more seriously than your party policy considerations, and together, SPÖ and ÖVP, agree on a tax reduction rate and lower taxes and with this measure we propose here, in particular to favour small and smallest income recipients. The population will thank you, and above all economic growth will be fuelled in Austria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22777	The next item is Mrs Bayr's speech. 2 minutes desired speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22798	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The increase in the negative tax rate is undoubtedly a measure to really relieve small earners. For example, we have already done this with the commuters. It is, however, in order to pursue a really effective redistribution policy, I do not think that it makes sense to pick out only one measure or another. I think it is more sensible to do it in a large throw with a bundle of measures and to strive for a large, truly redistributive tax policy. I now make two arguments why I did not think this was successful when the border was set up for the negative tax. On the one hand, it is known that the reference of the negative tax is also limited for a second time, namely with the 10-percent amount of social security contributions, which means that even now, from the actually in question group of persons who could obtain negative tax, only about 50 percent can use the total amount at all – that is, by far not all. This would not be eliminated if the limits were to be increased. That is, the legal environment, the legal environment is not optimal. I think you have to work with it. And for the second, the big jumps are also to be questioned. The step from negative taxation to a very low tax benefit is already given at low incomes if I earned only a few cents or euros more. If one were to implement the increase in borders without accompanying measures, then this leap would only grow much bigger and not necessarily fairer. I believe that the real basic problem lies in the last tax reform, in which small and medium-sized earners have not been relieved. The BZÖ was there in the government, and I think people could have been at your heart at the time. The wage tax will rise by about 25 percent by 2011 due to the tax reform decided by you, the sales tax by more than 20 percent. That is to say, by 2011 these two taxes will represent about 65 percent of the total tax volume, and this shows very clearly who the actual tax burden is on the self-employed. So you didn't work like you would like it now. I am pleading for a tax reform from a cast, with a real relief from the medium and small earners, who are coherent, effective and redistributive. A Ceterum Censeo: As long as it is true in Austria that 70 percent of the female taxpayers earn less than €20 000 a year, I believe that we are still very urgently called on to achieve a redistribution between the sexes. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22843	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Lamassoure. She wants to talk for two minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22865	Madam President. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I can keep my remarks very, very short; my predecessor has already made the most important points. Of course, a discharge of the smallest income is a very important concern. However, I would like to point out the transfer services available for the smallest incomes. I believe that this brings more than an isolated reduction in the negative tax. I would also say that it would be useful to make a big throw in the framework of the next tax reform 2009/2010, in which all legal bases are created to ensure that the beneficiaries of the smallest incomes are not the push payers of the Republic.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22895	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech at 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22918	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bucher, I find the knowledge you have with this request extremely surprising. If I remember correctly, you have had a lot of opportunity in the government over the past few years to take care of the group of low-earning people. But nothing of that has happened! I can recall strong debates that we have had, because we wanted to increase the negative tax so to speak, not only to €200, but we have said that we want a triple, which would on the one hand be a meaningful redistribution and on the other hand boost consumption, at a time when we would have needed it urgently. However, the government of that time simply refused to take note of this, including you, Mr Bucher. So it is positive that it is now possible to reach you that this would be a sensible measure. Overall, with the so-called biggest tax reform of all the times you did, you have reinforced all inequalities – and this with increasing prosperity – that can only be reinforced. It has been divided between wage ratio and profit ratio, it has been split between women and men's incomes, and the income sheath has also been split between employees. So anything that could be made more uneven, you have made more uneven in the time of the last government. In this sense it is remarkable that there is now apparently an incentive in the opposition to take care of this inequality as well. We will therefore also hold this debate in committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22952	The next item is the speech by Mr Themessl. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e22973	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear colleagues! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Don't you have any colleagues?]] In principle: Whenever it comes to redundancies of small and medium-sized enterprises, to help the economy and to strengthen purchasing power, we liberals always have an open ear, and we will also make good proposals in the relevant subcommittees. Mr Bucher, one wonder me, not only with regard to this request, but also with regard to the two previous ones you have made: They were in the government until almost a year ago, and then you would have had the opportunity to implement it. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sounds.]] I can remember: After the first major tax reform in 2004 and 2005, you said, because of the fact that the economic researchers for 2005/2006/2007 predicted very good economic growth at the time that “in forests” – of course you can see that – would follow the second step of this tax reform. At the time, they from the BZÖ helped the ÖVP to operate their lobbying for the large industry, but then failed to take a second step in time before the 2006 election. And I'll throw that before you. – What you're doing here is pure eye-catching! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] There is the saying: “Whoever comes too late will punish life.” – If I did, that would mean: You slept what you slept at the time! And now you from the BZÖ have caught up with the “evil reality” of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e23025	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with request 439/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:54:45]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-11-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00037_d8e23058	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 446/A to 463/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 1737/J to 1905/J were also raised. The next meeting of the National Council is scheduled for Thursday, 8. November 2007, 9 a.m. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The sitting will begin at Question Time. I wish you a nice evening – with or without Champions League. This meeting is closed.
