ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e2720	I'll open the 14th. Meeting of the National Council. Deputies Donabauer, Mandak, Dr. Pilz and Kickl are reported as prevented. [[13:02:55]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e2751	I have a letter from the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. In March 2007, the following text was added: 'Dear Madam President! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 1 January 1988. On March 1, 2007, GZ S300,000/5-BEV/2007, the Federal Minister without Portefeuille Doris Bures, according to Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitution Act, with effect from 1 March 2007. On 3 March 2007, the Federal Constitutional Act in conjunction with Article 77(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act appointed the Federal Minister in the Federal Chancellor's Office. At the same time, in accordance with Article 77(3) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal President, Mrs Doris Buresmit, has transferred the substantive direction of certain matters belonging to the field of effect of the Federal Chancellery. I can also say that Mrs Federal Minister Doris Bures has the term ‘Federal Minister for Women, Media and Public Service’. As far as Question Time in the National Council is concerned, Mrs Federal Minister Doris Buresin would have to provide for the order by Mr Bundeskanzler. With the best greetings Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer’ ==References== The following communication was also received from the Federal Chancellor: 'Dear Madam President! The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 1 January 1988. On March 1, 2007, GZ S300,000/5-BEV/2007, the Federal Minister without Portefeuille Dr. Johannes Hahn, according to Article 74(3) of the Federal Constitution Act with effect from 1 March 2007. In March 2007, he was discharged by the Office and appointed as the Federal Minister for Science and Research under Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitution Act. With the best greetings Dr. Alfred Gusenbauer’ Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e2829	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e2914	Mr Glawischnig-Piesczek, Mr Weinzinger, Mr Weinzinger, Mr President, asked before entering the agenda for the self-employed motion for a resolution adopted at the same time on 'Women's policy measures: Where do they stay?” urgent treatment. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the implementation of the urgent request will take place at least three hours after the date of entry into the agenda, i.e. at 16.04 a.m. Request for a short debate on the reply to the question 201/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e2936	I would also like to say that, in accordance with § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question No 201/AB of Question No 213/J by Mr Zinggl, colleagues on ‘Women at the Vienna Philharmonic’ by Mr Bundeskanzler. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e2961	After consultation with the members of the Presidential Conference, a day-blocking period of 7 ‘Vienna hours’ has been envisaged, so that the following speaking times may arise: SPÖ and ÖVP per 102 minutes, green and FPÖ per 77 minutes, BZÖ 63 minutes. The National Council shall vote on this. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. [[13:06:10]] 1. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (24D.B._Other Organiser Federal Act providing for a provisional provision for the 2007 financial year (Legal Budget Provisional Committee 2007) (33 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3000	We're now on the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going into the debate immediately. First of all, Mr Magistrate. Rossmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3050	Mr President. High house! Triumphal was announced last Thursday that the budget negotiations could be completed in the record time of just one week. [[Demonstrative applause by Dr. Stumbling and Zweytick.]] If the government negotiations had also been completed in record time – and given the leaner results that would have been possible – then we would not have to discuss a budget procedure today, no, then we would be in the middle of the budget debate today! [[Abg. Prince: You don't have to discuss anyway...!]] But we are still waiting for the concrete contents of the double budget 2007/2008. What we know about this today promises nothing good. [[Abg. Big Truck: Don't start crying!]] It is clear that the savings price of black and blue orange is to be continued. While we still have to wait for the details of this dish/grasser course, it is to be feared that too little money will flow into the future areas of education, research and development and climate protection and that too little resources will be available for basic protection, care and for women. The extension of the miscarriage in schools, universities and care is evident. But for the national defence, one hears and reads, there will be 100 million more in 2007. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's not true!]] Should that be future-looking? . We will look at this very carefully, Mr Scheibner, when the budget becomes available. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unfortunately, it's not true!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] In this way, Austria will not be able to secure its prosperity! And again: For this very reason, we will look at this double budget very, very carefully and show the weaknesses mercilessly. Please wait!, however, it says not only with regard to the double budget, but also with regard to the budgetary results of the year 2006, the so-called preliminary performance. You, Mr Vice-Chancellor, have kept us away from this so far. This is remarkable – yes, I would almost say scandalous – when we are discussing a budget commission today, which is to build and build on the results of 2006. [[Abg. Lentsch: This is not the first time!]] And why do you present these results to us? – I can tell you: This government also continues in this respect the course of black and blue orange. Whoever does not comply with the principle of transparency in relation to public affairs in the minimum, cannot boast of good governance! On the contrary, I would say: That's bad governance! In many countries, it is quite common for birth results to be quickly placed on the respective websites. It is time for this government finally to wake up from the sleep of thorns and to provide Parliament with not only the success of events in 2006, but also the data under the age of". A time journey to the present would certainly be recommended. That is what we as parliamentarians and parliamentarians have a right to do, but also as taxpayers. Now to the budget provisorium in concrete. What can be said about this without the knowledge of the 2006 results, and how can it be assessed? Three things. First: It is initially linked to the wrong budget structures of 2006 and extends them to the double budget in-force. If you were to look for a motto for this budget-provisorium, it would probably have to be: Save and manage instead of shaping! Secondly, In its core, the 2007 budget provisional provides for a cover-up of 4 percent of discretionary expenditure. . I do not know if someone is in the hall who would call this measure an intelligent measure or even an innovative measure. Anyway, I'd think she's inconceivable. The inconsistency is that this cover largely follows the lawn mower method. Have you, Mr Vice-Chancellor and Minister of Finance, ever observed and considered what consequences are associated with this? – Not only are many initiatives waiting for promises of reduced funding, for many innovative projects in the field of social, women, art and culture, this reduction could even mean the end. And for many clubs in the NGO sector, of which few are carrying out important public tasks, this means that once again, the belt is tighter. This cover is therefore not only inconceivable, it will also cause people to lose their jobs. It is also harmful to existence. Thirdly, Since we are starting to discuss the double budget in three weeks, of course the question arises: Do we even need this budget-provisorium – and that in view of a good economic situation and the plenty of tax revenue? I guess the answer can only be: If the rates become due for the Eurofighter purchase – which is at least more than €400 million this year – then it may well be that the debt brake provided for in the Constitution is effectively challenged and the Republic's ability to pay is called into question. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: That's quite different, Mr Rossmann!]] – Well, you will explain this to us then, Mr. Vice-Chancellor. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Exactly!]] For these senseless Eurofighters, we have money – money that this government is not prepared to address the most pressing problems in this country. [[Abg. Großruck: Who says they're pointless?]] But one thing is clear today: The focus of the 2006 budget is on national defence – and this cannot be future-oriented. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: 2006?]] – 2007, pardon. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] For precisely these reasons, I have mentioned, we cannot give our approval to Greens of this government proposal and hence to the 2007 budget procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3213	The next speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. I put the watch on the desired 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3238	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In fact, I did not expect it any different and would have wondered if Mr Rossmann, who had been taught by the Greens in earlier times to consult the budget as an expert and is now here as a parliamentarian, had changed so to speak. It is always the same criticism: no future prospects of the budget, no priorities. One could also say: Again and again the same reason – regardless of whether as an expert... – A standard speech, I don't want to put that to him, that would be too much. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: The standard speech!]] So far, ladies and gentlemen, we should not go. He said during the last budget consultations – I can remember – that the economy would be paralysing, it could be much more difficult than expected that the budget figures would not come. - And today? Today, he has gladly noted: We have a booming economy and plenty of tax revenue. Yes, my colleague, what's the matter now? – Clearly, the policy of the past government was much better than you, as a budget expert, always prophesied! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] I admit, however, that is right, Mr Matznetter has said the same, and therefore I have kindly taken along a paper from Mr Matznetter. [[The speaker shall keep a document up to date.]] I was having a little fun. He has always, from the point of view of the opposition in earlier times, fought with us in one or other budgetary ostrich. I know that his perspective is quite different now – I know that! –: At the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets, he has clearly explained things as we are used to. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter.]] Well, in these documents he still meant that the economy would be much worse, the figures would not be right. – Mr Matznetter, we can agree on this: You were wrong with your prophecies. Thank God! Our profound documents from the last budgets have voted. And these positive budget figures should also be the basis for this budget procedure – we should be pleased about this, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] Mr Rossmann, this budget proposal would not be necessary for reasons of time or for other reasons, for example, that the measures could not be put in place. It is necessary, however, because, as has rightly been demanded, other priorities have been made. So far, I have always heard from the Green Group that it would have to happen in the direction of women, in the direction of science, in the direction of research and so on, even more unevenly than before. Now, on the basis of the new ministerial law, there are new responsibilities, and precisely because of these responsibilities, it would be fatal if we did not decide on this budget, because the new ministries would not be able to carry out their tasks, which they have already very committed themselves to. That's why I don't quite understand you: You as an expert need to know that it is necessary! Ladies and gentlemen, in a few weeks we will turn to the double budget of the year 2007/2008, intensive advice on this. I congratulate the Federal Government on Mr. Mag. Molterer and State Secretary Dr. Matznetter, who have well-founded and competently explained this double budget in political principles. As you have referred to the transparency: I think it is extremely fair that a Federal Minister has explained to the public that the exact facts and facts are first given to Parliament and then the public. – So much for transparency. We will be happy to vote for this proposal today.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3302	The next speaker was Mr Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3324	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! We should decide on a budget procedure here today. This is relatively simple, in fact, in fact, because, for the first time, you have the two-thirds majority in this House and do it yourself, and because you could say to the second, of course, you also need budget resources to be able to work on as it has been before. And this is where the whole thing starts to hook. If I look at the double budget of the last two years, which we want to continue writing here today, so that you can continue to work as you have in the last two years, and if I have heard all the speeches from my previous speakers on the government side, where it was said how well you have worked economically and what economic figures you have to show, then I must tell you that it hurts me, as an economic speaker of our group, when I see what good conditions have prevailed over the last two years and what you have done about it. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] In fact, from the optimal conditions given worldwide by the economic start, one has only made a minimum or just a simple mean measure – and that is what hurts me already. And if I think that's what I'm going to do today, it hurts me twice. My previous speaker, Mr Auer, who said that it would not be necessary today, I am entirely right. They didn't necessarily have to start the elections in the late autumn – say: October – you could have done this two months before. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In August!]] But probably for the reason that you were so sure that you could go further, anyway, as you have done so far, you have put it on as late as that. In addition, three months later, you slept and confounded and were only able to present a new government in the middle of January. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In the committee you agreed! You voted in committee!]] To support this right now would be a mortal sin on our part, and even a mortal sin by me as an economic spokesman, to wish to continue this budget now. If you had done your tasks, you would have worked faster – I hope that will be the case in the future – then that would not be necessary. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In committee already! Something new!]] Mr Auer, you know, you have to mention the numbers by name and look at the facts; then you know what we are talking about. We will not give our consent to this budget recommendation because we are quite clear in our opinion... – You know, we have agreed with a reservation to calm you down and there your criticism, your unjustified criticism, which leaves all figures missing, which means that we have hands and feet, for this reason... [[Abg. Jakob Auer: But already in committee!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with representatives of the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: No word!]] Mr Auer! If you're asking, don't give me numbers of yourself that don't vote, then we know what we're talking about. We will not agree to this because we have not granted any extension to the sausages of the last two years. And that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3446	Next, Mr Krainer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3468	Mr President. High house! The budget commission now has no motto, as Mr Rossmann has said, but it is simply technically necessary on the basis of the new ministerial law, and of course it is no more and no less than a transitional solution until the new budget is decided, which is presented here in a few weeks. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: We already know that!]] If the criticism is that there is a predisposition by the Eurofighters, then of course that is true. The Eurofighters cost a lot of money, and this greatly reduces the budgetary room for play. [[Abg. Grandruck: You don't think you'll get it anyway!]] And, of course, it also reduces the scope for setting new accents in politics here. But still: If you look at the government programme and the budget path and also the first figures of the budget, you can see here very clearly that those policies that have been seriously neglected over the past seven years are now being addressed, for example in the area of growth and employment. In recent years, we have had rising unemployment, record unemployment, and finally we have been in Europe as far as public investment is concerned. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: 1999, yes!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Well worked!]] This is, of course, completely different from that budget and also from the budget path, because it is a priority in employment policy. There will be a serious fight against unemployment, and record budgets will be invested in research and development. In the field of infrastructure, there will be new record investments over this legislative period. In the area of social affairs, we were faced with increasing poverty – from poverty report to poverty report – where social scarcity in society has developed completely apart. This is also seen on the basis of the first steps of this government – and of course this can be seen in the budget – that this is going in a completely different direction: the need-oriented minimum guarantee, the significant increase in minimum pensions and a number of other measures that can also be foreseen in the budget. The first steps are to draw poison teeth from the pension reform, and through serious steps taken by the competent minister in the care, a solution is finally to be created. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Graf.]] It is very clear that this can be read in the budget, that new priorities will be set here. There is much to be done in a third essential area of the future, namely in the field of education. What we experienced in the seven years before that were hourly cuts, the miser at the universities et cetera. We all know that enough. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Children don't get a place!]] There are also the first steps in the budget, of course with a very narrow margin, with a very tight budgetary margin. This also has to do with the many outsourced debts, the record debt level, but there are clearly the priorities of our policy: Reducing the maximum number of students, extending the scholarship system. There are the very first steps to take. – Certainly too little, but a first step in the right direction. And 2007 are also first steps, 2008 are first steps to take, the pace has to be increased only during the legislative period for 2009 and 2010. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Speed kills!]] In my opinion, it is very positive that the government, the SPÖ and the ÖVP, have recognised these new priorities together and set these new priorities together, thus simply developing the wrong developments in the right direction in recent years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3590	From the government bank, Mr. Vice-Chancellor Mag. Molterer to speak. I put the clock on the desired 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3611	Mr President. High house! The question of why this legal budget procedure is very easy to answer, Mr Rossmann, and you know that too: This legal provision is therefore necessary to ensure that this new structure of the Federal Government is also illustrated in the budget and that the colleagues who have taken over government responsibility, such as Mrs Bures in the field of women or colleague Hahn in the field of science and research, have been given this new competence in the budget. If you had something to criticize, I would understand that you criticized it, we wouldn't have done it. Then the automatic budget procedure would be in force, and two ministers of this Federal Government who are grateful would not have a solid basis for work. Therefore: I understand that you have to make opposition, but you should not criticize this complex, which is absolutely meaningful in the matter. And that's why I'm on it! I am also in favour of publishing the preliminary clearance of the 2006 financial year, Mr Rossmann, when he is finished. I attach great importance to the fact that the Federal Ministry of Finance, as before among all my predecessors, chooses a completely transparent procedure, but based on facts. And just a preliminary invoice - and all those who understand something about it - can only be published if all the facts are actually on the table and the demarcations between the financial years as regards tax revenue are implemented, Mr Rossmann. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: You're talking about Maastricht...!]] If you continue to argue what you have previously argued, this would be a mistrust request not against me, but against the employees of the financial unit. And that's where I tell you: Here I stand protective from my employees, who, as before, inform completely objectively and transparently when the information is complete. That remains so – even in the future! [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It is true that in a few weeks, we are here in Parliament, on 29 October. March, with my budget speech, the political talks that will start political negotiations on the double budget 2007/2008. I would like to thank Mr Matznetter at this point, the staff of the department, but above all also the colleagues in the government. It was only through this joint will-building and the joint will of this Federal Government, built up in the Government Convention, that it was possible to present this double budget in a really good time. The Austrians have a right to this. I think that this budget agreement will also be a solid basis for the further on-the-spot prospects of this federal government. This budget agreement is carried by a double spirit: on the one hand, it is sparingly dealing with the euro. You know, if you stand out here so salopp and say there too little, there too little, there too little, then you actually say something that I absolutely do not support and do not underline. They say that the issue of careful handling of taxpayers' money is actually a secondary priority. [[Abg. May. Rossmann: This is an understatement!]] No, it is primarily for me, Mr Rossmann, that the question of careful handling of the tax euro is in the interest of the people of this country. It's not my money, it's not your money. It's the taxpayers' money about what this is all about! [[Congratulations with ÖVP and BZÖ.]] At the same time, however, the budget agreement – as well as the economical approach – is characterised by a thought that unites us, namely the right investment in future projects: therefore, education, for example, the question of research and development, i.e. the question of social cohesion of society, also the necessary infrastructure investment in this budget, yes, and also the necessary investment for security. That's what I'm talking about. This is my understanding of political responsibility: As a matter of urgency, dealing with the tax euro on the one hand and investing properly where it concerns the security and the future of the country, on the other hand. I think this is a good strategy based on this joint work of the Federal Government. That's what we're building on. Such a proposal is not a self-interest either, but it is ultimately the political expression of the emphasis I want to summarize with the terms “strengthening growth” and “creating work”. Creating work is one of the most important tasks ultimately of companies, entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, but policy must provide the basis for the direction to continue. If we can talk about it today – don't talk about it; you won't succeed either – that we have one of the most stable growth periods we have found for decades, a growth rate of 3.2 percent last year, for this year and for next year too, economic researchers are predicting stability with positive growth impulses, then this is an absolutely positive sign of the good work that has been done and will be done. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This growth perspective, ladies and gentlemen – I do not understand that there is no general agreement on this – has an impact on declining unemployment. We have about 35 000 unemployed less than a year ago, and we have 78 000 jobs more than a year ago. If there was something to criticize, it would be if we had a minus with the employees – we have a plus. And if there was something to criticize, it would be a plus to unemployment – no, we have a minus. Some say that this direction is right, just as it is when it comes to increasing real income, because we have real income increases, which are positive in purchasing power, through this economic growth, increased employment and very good monetary stability. Therefore, this time the growth impulses are not exclusively from export, but to a great extent from investment activity and increasing purchasing power in Austria, and that is the real secret of success: Growth from the strength in export and growth from the strength of own economic power. This is the objective of this Federal Government which is committed to opening up the labour market, where necessary, through its decisions at the level of government, for example, to creating a meaningful perspective towards the qualifications of skilled workers, and also where necessary, when opening up is possible – I think this is a very responsible process. The results will be implemented, for example in the area of administrative reform, in the climate strategy, in research and development and in the area of infrastructure. I am therefore looking forward to the discussion on the real big throw of the 2007 and 2008 budget. We will lead them with great commitment. I am happy to have this critical discussion, too, under a basic condition: that we dispute facts. And that the economy is growing and unemployment is falling is fact. We don't need to look for this course, but we have it!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3694	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. I put the watch on the desired 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3715	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Mr Finanzminister, if I may speak to you now, the debate has not yet given the impression that a second speaker per group is needed, but you have encouraged me to make this contribution with your comments. [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: I made you minter!]] – You can still say that on the first day. It's got a few things mixed up and it's all straightened out. First: One might argue about this – that will be Parliament's task – whether, despite the course essentially, these figures are still these figures or because of the course, one can have a dispute over them, after all, the measures have a certain delay of time. But I'm talking about something else: If you are already drawing on the economic forecasts and thus giving an indication of the economic researchers who draw up them, then we will have to talk briefly about what the economic researchers are still telling us about the structural weaknesses of the Austrian economy, in particular as regards the revenue side within the budget, namely the tax structure. But I'll put that back again for a second. But one thing you can't do without further information: to Mr Rossmann here, that he doesn't want to do anything to me, nothing just to increase your spending, just because he points out that obviously a few positions on this expenditure page in one - I repeat or tighten it - are blatantly disproportionate to the course that should actually be majority in Austria. We will still have plenty of opportunity – unfortunately, you have to say – and therefore only so much to these disgusting interception hunters: These 400-million payments this year – in fact, they are a little more – are once again proof that it is not only, now, the right to award, it is the biggest shift in the history of the Republic, but at least... – We have so much opportunity. [[Abg. Hörl: proofs!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. May. Kukacka: No submissions!]] If you were to cooperate a little bit in the investigation committee instead of hindering it, you would now make other calls, but that would have been awarded to you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Approved: Mr Finanzminister, we have always had a very high opinion in connection with your former way of working and time in the government, then you have switched to the Members' Bank, were Klubobmann – at the ÖVP it is very much with holiness, you should be careful that this does not drift too far into the shadow. A vocabulary has also been invented for this, but we also want to save ourselves today, but sometimes you have the suspicion that you are crossing some limits of this lighting, but that will not do you well at all. Come on. You get out of this Lopatka-Jargon, you can find back to what you reasonably exchange in economic policy discourse. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] By the way, our group and your party have some overlaps about which we may be able to discuss again in the evening with the Ecostrom Act, even if it is differentiated there. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Trunk.]] I'm quite surprised how I formulated today. This must really be up to the new government – let's see where this is going. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Abg. Dr. Muted]] But that's not how it's been. Mr Rossmann referred to the following: Here there is a blatant misunderstanding in the expenditure structure. We are going to see what the new budget is about to eliminate the need for care, to fight the miscarriage of education and to put an investment policy back on our feet, perhaps also from the public budgets, because with this crazy Maastricht-Jongliery in any societies that “threw themselves” in ten years, so that all of us inside the budget will fall on the skull, with this displeasure must be ended! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is a matter of confessing to public investment. You are right, you have to pay attention to the expenditure structure, because there is something to move – we have different priorities, nor have we sold the Eurofighter, as you say, ten times, it is enough once we sell it and use the money for other measures. Any other defense solution would cost only a fraction of it. But it is also, aproposing structure, about something else: It is already the question of who of the political groups has the courage to say that it is not just a matter of leaving the tax structure, that is, the income situation completely the same and of prospecting a tax reduction in four years. The logic of politics and coalition will not allow anything but a little down there at a clienttel and there's a little bit more. All this only leads to a continuation of the structural weaknesses in our tax revenue system, and there we need enormous repairs. Let's stick to the seli... – now I would almost have promised again – to the Badehosen Finance Minister, who always suggested benchmarking! Now he can watch us, and we're going to be benchmarking. We have blatant weaknesses in our tax structure. These are precisely where you, Federal Minister for Finance, have today made an unexpected but very strange proposal, namely that we should give up the inheritance and gift tax in the future at all. I am not saying that we should work to ensure that the tax and tax rate is again 45 percent, but we say that it doesn't make sense to run around and say that 39 is so much better than 40.9% because it depends on what you do with the money. If we do not clarify how public investment is achieved where the market fails, for example in environmental protection, but also in social areas, then we also have to say – we do this, I am waiting for the answer from social democracy – that the money has to come somewhere, then it is about the structure. It cannot be that we are the only country in Europe, that says: Bad inheritance tax! That's for the little families or who else! – This can already be done, which is also our proposal, namely for the small ones more generous allowances, up to the medium-sized assets that are transferred, whether through inheritance or even if you go on the property, but from a certain level this must be more effective than now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Class fight!]] – There are others who demand it, that is true, if not you. One last thing in the context, Mr. State Secretary: The privileges of taxing the foundation are not good at this moment, and it is not a social stamp to put it on the whole, because the current taxation is the opposite. We have to eliminate the privileges there, and only insofar as the capital doesn't change immediately, that's right, but there's a lot of room in there. With this money, we can then save a lot at the same tax and tax rate for the so-called additional wage costs – you always talk about, Mr. Finanzminister – or else with them. The hierarchy of the questions is therefore quite clear: What is to be financed publicly? This results in a certain tax rate if one does not want the deficit to explode – that is where we have consensus. And within that certain height it's about the structure. I really expect clear contributions here, from all political groups, and not from a populist race: Now we are not attacking taxes, the poor structure is being rewritten, and they are getting worse in four years, because we are again indifferent in any way going about a tax gift before the election. - That's not how you're going to get far!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3834	The next speaker is Mr Bucher. I put the clock on the desired 7 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3855	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! At the head of my speech, I should like to make a request to Mr Vice-Chancellor, namely that he address his remarks to us after a speaker has made his contribution by each group, because it is also interesting for you, Mr Vice-Chancellor, to know how the individual political groups stand in order to be able to replicate this law – with a clubman, we can also assume that we have proven clubman. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, this budget procedure, which has already been implemented and explained, is, of course, a sensible measure, and we are referring to what we have discussed in the Committee, and also to how we voted – another group in this House has voted in a different way. But I do not really understand the position of the Greens, because you, Mr Rossmann, know the importance of this proposal and know that this is a compelling measure so that this country can be governed. Of course, it can be said that the coalition parties needed more than 100 days to establish a coalition agreement, but the fact is that the authorities and the ministries, in particular, must work to ensure that staff members have budget frameworks so that they can comply with their legal mandate. That is why we are still ready to agree to this proposal. Of course, what is busy with us in the near future will be the 2007/2008 budget. I do not think it is so surprising, honestly, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that the SPÖ has agreed so quickly, for, as we know in connection with the Government Convention, it may well be the case that it is only after that that one would have liked to have everything in the budget to be accommodated in it. I would be a little more cautious in dealing with the coalition partner, because even if Mr. Matznetter as a learned oppositionist has now gone to you in spiritual accommodations, Mr. Vice-Chancellor, it is not likely that he will continue to speak here in the future and carry this course with you. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] We have heard very, very many statements by the State Secretary Matznetter from this speaker's desk about group taxation, for example: If we come from the SPÖ to the government, there is no day of group taxation! – You can not only read this once or twice in the speeches of Mr Matznetter, but, I believe, it is hundreds of times over his lips when I involve the committee deliberations. So I am very excited about what this 2007/2008 budget will bring us. We are full of expectation and very keen to learn how you want to accommodate all of this with regard to the financing of your specific actions in the field of education and infrastructure et cetera – very, very ambitious and good measures. But you already have to assume that, as a constructive opposition, we will not go away from our way, that we primarily want to relieve the taxpayer and not burden it! [[As a result, the Commission has not yet received any comments from the interested parties.]] This was a consensual course that we have successfully pursued since 2000. You have confirmed, in the context of your statement, that the tax relief of €3 billion, the growth package and the economic package were very important contributions to the fact that we now have a very good economy with over 3 percent growth in our country, a low inflation rate, declining unemployment and rising employment. These were decisive measures for this successful time in Austria, which naturally stimulate and motivate the economy and stimulate exports. We would like to continue this course if you are also forcing the discharges. Today, the Constitutional Court has lifted the inheritance tax and asked you to repair it by mid-next year, to take measures to ensure that the inheritance tax is reformed accordingly as it stands. We've always said we don't need the inheritance tax. € 140 million is the proceeds from the inheritance tax – the administrative burden is approximately the same. [[Abg. May. Kogler: This is a nonsense! Go ahead.]] We are in favour of considering in Austria the amount of tax dues to which they are really relevant to the budget. We are in favour of finally bringing together some of the administrative simplification for municipal, urban and country budgets as well as for the federal budget, and we are in favour of creating a corporate tax here in the future. We are in favour of also thinking about whether it would be useful for small and micro-enterprises to reduce the tax burden on the package, to reduce the administrative burden and bureaucracy, as the European Community has undertaken to reduce 20 percent of the red tape and administrative burden. That should be our mission, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that we will also be able to read in the 2007/2008 budget template. I'm looking forward to the discussion. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3910	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e3934	Mr President. High government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The budget, often said, is the government programme cast in figures. In the given case, the 2005/2006 budget is necessarily continued. That is to say, we should vote on a budget that was the government’s government programme in 2005/2006, a government that started as an ÖVP/FPÖ government and not least because of the internal difficulties in the FPÖ because it did not want to accept this budget – the mass of the members of the FPÖ – when ÖVP/BZÖ government ended. The FPÖ recognized very early that this government policy cannot master the real problems of our country. That's what one of their ministers once said they were the Hooligans. Well, maybe there's also thinking Hooligans. If I consider what excellent budgetary things you have not done, the matter will be difficult. First of all, we have noticed – and this will continue – the EU payments, namely: Net payments. We have a large number of EU net payments, whether or not we, and especially our people, are becoming more and more dissatisfied with the EU, because everything we have heard this morning until the early afternoon cannot be true, you cannot seriously mean that, because in fact, there is almost no one who accepts the EU in the current development. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] What we wanted was a union of Europe. What we wanted – and still want – is the clarification: What does Europe want? What do the European States and their representatives want? Do they want a Europe as a nation of states, or do they want a Europe as a state? Let's finish this! And of course we must vote on the EU Constitution! That's not a question at all. That is, of course, a minimum standard in democracy. And this minimum standard is required, it has to be demanded, but not by the fact that we pay net payments to the EU in an incredible amount – and continue to do so now! Let's say it again. This 2005/2006 budget, which now lasts for at least three, four, if not five or six months, is nothing else... [[Abg. Lens: Two!]] – What have we lived on now – in January and February? What will we live on in March? And what will we live on in April? And when does the budget come through? In May! [[Abg. Jacob Auer: This has nothing to do with it!]] – Of course this has something to do with it! We continue the 2005 and 2006 budget in 12th form. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: But we need no change! We didn't need the law.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: That's not where we need the law!]] I know, but I cannot agree because we did not agree to the original budget. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl.]] And I would like to say that, because the budget represents the government policy cast in figures, we should agree to the continuation of the government policy of 2005/2006. As the ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democratic Party, who have passionately fought this budget, are doing so. [[Abg. Riepl: Exactly!]] We do not agree. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want this government policy of 2005 and 2006 to be continued with my approval, though only until hopefully May.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4058	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4079	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! To my esteemed previous speaker as well as to his colleague Themessl, I think you have to say, ladies and gentlemen: You can make a mistake once, you can admit that. You have agreed to this proposal in the Committee on Budgets – not with reservation! There was no word message from you. Admit it, you can overlook something once, you can sleep something! We have noted: You do not agree today, but you voted in committee. – This is not a malheur, it can happen, but I think the truth should remain truth. As some of my previous speakers have already said, the actual provisional, which is based on the 2006 budget: In the end, it is based on a successful and solid budgetary policy in recent years, ladies and gentlemen! We really value that! I always say that I like to discuss data and facts. And the fact is that the financial policy of the last seven years has led us from the last third to the top third of the EU statistics. That is, the financial policy with this triple strategy – stability in the state budget, discharge of citizens and businesses, investment in the future – was a very successful policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We can find out today – again only facts and facts! –: higher economic growth than the EU, higher economic growth than – still our most important trading partner! – the Federal Republic of Germany. We have recently received forecasts for the years 2007 to 2011: Economic growth in the EU expects 2.3 percent, in Germany 1.5 percent, with us 2.5 percent. In the previous year 35 000 unemployed people are less likely to be 50 000 new jobs. – This is a successful economy, ladies and gentlemen! As one who comes out of the economy, let me say one thing: We only received the results of a market survey a few days ago. What does the economy actually say? – It is a pleasure that 75 percent of the companies surveyed have said: We are satisfied with the development of the last 12 months and look optimistically to the future. For small and medium-sized enterprises up to 20 employees, it was even 81 percent who said: We have been satisfied with the development of the economy over the past 12 months and are also optimistic for the future. A greater compliment than this statement by the companies and these facts and figures, a representative of the government group cannot actually make to his Minister of Finance. A big compliment! The last point – also mentioned – is: I believe that the Constitutional Court has today tipped the inheritance tax, is on our line. And I say quite clearly here: For us from the People's Party, the best correction of the inheritance tax is to abolish it at all. I don't see why we should tax things three times! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I buy something today, I have to have a work income that is taxed up to 50 percent, then I pay 20 percent VAT for it, and once I inherit it to my children, I pay this inheritance tax again. A triple tax, ladies and gentlemen, is really not socially responsible – therefore away with the inheritance tax!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4140	The next speaker was Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4161	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! This budget is less about a debate on the content and the implementation of the budget. I think you can say: This is, of course, the old government policy, which is now required by law to refinancing the state in the next few weeks. That is why we will agree, although we have, of course, always fought and voted against these budgets in recent years. I would like to point out that this new federal government has now negotiated a new budget in a very short time. We are all in a joyful expectation of the discussions on this subject complex over the next few weeks. I am also convinced that we can see a change of course here. I would like to remind you that the last few years – my colleague has just praised this time – have not always been so great. If one compares it with five years or six years of ÖVP/BZÖ and 13 years of sole government of the Social Democrats in the 1970s, which had been very negatively assessed by the Conservatives, then it is noted that the new debt on the average of these periods of government was the same, but growth in the single social democratic government has been twice as high as in recent years. And to do this, you should also note: At that time the major financing problems of the national states were financed, during this last period the national lights, which were successfully renovated, were sold! I think we have very interesting debates in front of us, and I am also very curious and excited about these discussions over the next few weeks. Finally, I would like to say: Taxation is available for tax purposes. It's always bad to abolish a tax. It is better to prove it with a zero percentage – if you already want – but you could keep it in reserve as a tool, as an instrument for the design of a state, of a household. In this sense, we should discuss inheritance tax. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4200	The next speaker was Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4222	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! The budget procedure, the budget for one year, for the next two years is necessary to distribute the cake we have for the individual measures. But if you allow: I wonder a lot in this area, because if you've been around in the past and you've lent your ear to the news, you've often heard different statements from the individual government groups, the current coalition: On the one hand, the social minister's mobility premium of €10,000 is in the room so that workers can also move to another state and take up a job there, on the other hand, one of the economic ministers of €2,000 – this is a difference of €8 000! [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] There is a lot in annoyance and uncertainty – even in the case of minimum security, where one has agreed to introduce such an amount of € 726, which has already happened with the compensation allowance. For me, this minimum social security is just a fixed wishful thinking – that's all! This is still to be coordinated and negotiated with the countries on an Article 15a agreement. Without the willingness of the countries, it is simply not possible to implement it. At present, the financial burden on the individual federal states is still completely unexplained. In my opinion, it is also very little thought if you pay €726 14 times a year – that is gross for net – and on the other hand you demand a minimum wage of €1,000 – that is gross. Now, if you deduct the service contribution from 15 percent alone, then you come to € 850 – and there is the incentive to accept a job, very, very low. The The whole matter is very, very little thought-out, there should be some thought, ladies and gentlemen. As far as the loads of the commuters are concerned, this goes much further. The one with one. In January 2007, mineral oil tax, which is currently 42 cents per litre of petrol, is to be increased by 1 cent, the 30 cents per litre of diesel will be increased by 3 cents. This results in a percentage increase in mineral oil tax alone in the case of petrol by 2.4 percent, in the case of diesel by say and write 10 percent! And many Austrian counterparts are driving diesel vehicles! 1.9 million commuters and their families are massively disadvantaged and asked to cash out. If someone has to drive 20 kilometres – that is, back and forth, from the workplace – and driving a vehicle that consumes five litres per 100 kilometres, that is, in 106 € alone with the mineral oil tax. In the case of a diesel vehicle that consumes 10 litres per 100 kilometres and a distance of 40 kilometres to the workplace and back, it is 427 € per year alone. In addition, VAT will be added, which will be abolished by the tax, and will be plus 20 percent. - That's one. Considering that the value of the vignette price is also in the room and that the vehicle premium should also be increased, I ask you: How do you intend to create mobility in the labour market? Do you want to achieve that someone also hires a job that is further away? That's the opposite! This has to do with mobility, with flexibility zero, which is a barrier! In the past, we have put in place quite different measures to increase mobility in the labour market, such as the reform of a job, where two million employees already have two million employees, self-employed workers, are enjoying the “new job” that is based on employee care, on a pension fund. These measures you are planning are certainly not conducive to mobility. They limit mobility, yes, they are just an obstacle to the whole. Then I still think that the increase in health insurance is also in the room. This results in an increase in additional wage costs, which means that the employee costs more. We have just received a complaint from the OECD, because in Austria too much emphasis is placed on the taxation of labour force. You should do this, because how else should employee participation in businesses work? This should be considered, Minister of Finance, Mr Vice-Chancellor, because we have been on a good footing in recent years. Leave You don't have this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4286	Mr Matznetter was next spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4307	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen! I shall put it right where Mr Dolinschek has stopped. The fact is that the OECD, in its report – and we must take note of this with regret – has found that we have a burden, which has increased, especially in the field of work. In this sense, I am also sorry that I was right in my press conference – documents shown by Mr Auer at the time – as far as the burden is concerned, and in another point, fortunately for the State budget, in another direction. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We have – and this is gratifying – a significantly better performance due to the excellent international economy with an increase of 3.2 percent than was foreseen in the original proposal. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Jakob Auer.]] But now we come to the main problem facing us today. The first question is easily answered: We need the proposal only for the purpose of covering the necessary expenditure until the entry into force of the new budget, which has been reconfigured in accordance with the Federal Ministry Act. I too, as a member of the opposition, had the presumption that the interception hunters could cause the 50 percent earlier debt brake to occur. I can inform you: It's not like that. It would be sufficient, without further measures by the middle of this year, probably up to the July area, to budget the provisorium as it is automatically in force. Therefore, this proposal would not be necessary. However, I come to another point that has now dominated the whole debate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Rossmann.]] [[Vice chancellor Mag. Molterer: Not required!]] – Not required! Mr Rossmann, it really is. It would go out by the middle of the year. Return to the discussion which has determined the previous course. - Yes, we need a discharge! And in that case, I do not quite understand that the members of a former government party then say both in one: on the one hand, they are sorry that the burden has increased according to OECD, but on the other hand, they are to continue. We must therefore choose a different course. We, both government partners, have understood that we will develop the budget through a determined rate of caretakeful budget over the next four years from around 1 per cent budget deficit to a surplus in 2010, in order to ensure a significant amount of relief without counter-financing. I admit quite frankly that we Social Democrats would have wished us to carry out a discharge with counter-funding earlier – our government partner did not want to do so. We then agreed that we would work it out in this way. On pump, on debt, we don't want to make tax reform! [[Abg. Bucher: Very well done!]] We also want to maintain this principle here. I am in favour of that point, Mr Kogler and others, on the question of how to deal with the judgment of the Constitutional Court. Number one: The Constitutional Court has clearly stated today that the system of inheritance tax is not unconstitutional. He could not fix only the injustice of the one-on-one assessment in § 19 by simply lifting it up. Why? – Because then basic assets would be taxed with the traffic value, while in other types of assets there are in part generous allowances, i.e. a new inequality arises between each other in the balance. And he has commissioned the National Council as a legislator to clean up the inheritance tax by July of the coming year. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] - No, don't get rid of it! If he had believed that it should be abolished, there would not have been that deadline, Mr. Cot, but he would have removed it without further deadline. I say very clearly at this point: We have agreed on a government programme that will lead us to a surplus in a consolidation of more than 1 percent deficit at the peak of the economy – 3.2 percent. Secondly, we have agreed that the discharges in this area will come in a tax reform. They come not through the back door and in other ways, but in a tax reform. There we will agree on the overall structure of taxation. We will present a good project together, we will treat this project in this government as a uniform one. We will not be able to do it on the level that you can do something on the left/right side of certain groups. That's where we agree, and that's what I'm glad about. One principle, I believe, can be shared by both government parties: The “small” housekeeper, who inherits his family house, who has a dwelling, inherits the car from the mother, is to be outside as far as possible, which we want to release. Those who believe that the inheritance tax is a baggage tax, where the administration is supposed to cost more than the income, are reminded: We have a profit of significantly more than € 130 million – in old currency almost 2 billion schilling – and we have only 300 public servants in the area of fees, which – because of good performance – only 300. Our financial officials and contract staff are so good that they make it perfect. And they cost up to € 10 million in total. Therefore, on this point it is very clear once again: It is not a bagatell tax, and we will work together in the government to find a reasonable solution. A note to the budget. I can only underline what Mr Vice-Chancellor said. We have worked together in a very short time to develop that part of the government programme, which sets out an overall direction of policy, namely to make Austria more competitive: by increasing growth, by significantly reducing unemployment with more employment for all, through significant new emphasis on education policy, by significantly expanding investment in infrastructure – a significant improvement in the country's performance if one wants to do so. And we want to do this at the same time as reducing the deficit to a surplus in 2010. This is not an easy task, neither for Mr Vice-Chancellor and for me in the financial sector, nor for the other Members of this House. They must also implement the savings measures, which must lift the potential for efficiency. And that's not always a pleasant task. It's better, you can distribute and say we're going somewhere else. But this collaborative cooperation works, ladies and gentlemen. However, we only went the first ten meters of the road. The provisorium is a small step. If we have the budget at the end of April, we will have taken an essential step. I am looking forward to this cooperation. Nothing has changed in my position. I also believe that we must look at the structures very carefully, how the funding takes place. It is better for me, one who has a whole valley in Carinthia, pays inheritance tax, and we relieve those SMEs, those small workers and employees who today pay too much even after international reports. That's what I'm going to fight for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4383	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4405	Madam President. Dear Mr Vice-Chancellor and Federal Minister! Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! ==References====External links== In October it was approved by the Court of Justice of the No budget was created in 2007. And through the Federal Ministerial Law Novelle, there were also shifts in the various competences in the ministries. Therefore, a legal budget proposal was needed. The Federal Minister explained this very precisely in his speech earlier. But the first statements made by SPÖ ministers also show that one has seen what the government budget is doing and what is not, such as in the case of pensions. We, the ÖVP, were told that we want to make ourselves permanently unpopular just because we wanted to adjust the actual retirement age to the statutory retirement age, because we calculated that this cannot happen if fewer and fewer children are born, the boys are getting longer and longer in training, who are working more and shorter and our people Thanks to God are getting older and older. But in the meantime, the new Social Minister from SPÖ has also seen that this cannot work, and has mentioned itself a legal retirement age of 67 years. But we too have seen that, for example, in the health sector, it will not be possible to do so without additional contributions. Although we have saved a lot in recent years, the cost of hospitals, care and medication has increased. That is why something has to happen in this area too. Despite all false calls, ladies and gentlemen, we are doing well in Austria. Economic growth has risen permanently and will continue to rise in 2007. We currently have as many people in work as never before, and those living under the poverty line will thank God ever less. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] ==References====External links== March and was created within a week. To this end, we can only congratulate the appropriate Minister of Finance and his State Secretary. And I am convinced that with the help of this new team, we will also achieve the over-target, namely a budget surplus in 2010. We by the EIA will agree to this budget procedure as well as in the Committee here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4456	The next item is the speech by Mr Zach. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4477	Madam President. Dear Mr. Vice-Chancellor! The fact is, a commissioner needs who doesn't start working in time. And this government did not start to work in time, because a part – namely the ÖVP – had to deal with his personal circumstances for a longer time and on the other hand he constantly won the right card. That is, we have lost important time, plus the last six years that we have lost, with regard to the discharge of citizens in this country. As far as the Grasser-Schmäh is concerned – Mr. Colleague stupidly presented to us today again in a colorful form the figures that show the discharge that has been given over the past six years – only the OECD study is needed, which clearly reveals that the burden on labour income by taxes and social contributions in Austria in recent years has significantly increased compared to the trend of other OECD countries. That is to say, Mr Finanzminister has not only been taken out of his shirt, but also of his bathing pants. On the one hand, we have a burden on citizens and on the other hand, in order to also look back towards OECD, an academic quota with which we are only in front of Turkey. And now I'm wondering, Where is the money that is taken on the one hand and, on the other hand, should be invested in essential areas such as education and research? [[Abg. Großruck: Who do you even represent?]] No investment in education and research. – I hope that will change soon in the new budget. We haven't been presented yet. If you look into the coalition programme, you can see that Minister Hahn has also done a lot here, especially investment in higher education. I believe that the silence of some ministers regarding the budget figures should not necessarily represent transparency and openness to Parliament, but some, I believe, are already afraid if they have to present the true figures, such as in the scientific field, where I wonder: Will there be investments? We only discussed the tuition fees, but where is the investment in universities where in the terms of study? And here, Minister Hahn, I think, will also have a lot to show what it looks like here. We were very zealous in deciding on the compensatory allowance rate for pensions, even with my support as a liberal, no question. However, I would also like to see a compensatory allowance for our young people in the form of a basic cultural security which allows access to education to be given such broad support here. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, on the subject of research and development. We discussed the kerosene levy today. Something has to be done here in Europe! But from my point of view, this is too far. We have to put a single energy euro on fossil fuels as a whole – a proposal that the European Liberals in the European Parliament and I also support. We should try to put the money taken here into research and development, in order to make alternative energy sources competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4526	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4547	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! These budget debates have in themselves the need to discuss some of the economic policy decisions that exist there or there. And after a recent decision has been made in Vienna's Landtag, let me address this briefly. There the majority of the Wiener Landtage decided that a mega-shopping centre should be built in the south of Vienna, almost where there is a shopping centre just next door. If you are discussing this in the sense of small and medium-sized enterprises and local services, then I have to say that this is an awful threat, and we also believe that everything should be done to prevent it. From the economic point of view, that is because the city of Vienna is promoting shopping streets with a lot of money on the one hand, but on the other hand it also supports and promotes the threat. It is interesting to note that, although there is no proper opinion, one that would be discussed, but that there is at least an option agreement which will be a favourable purchase price. But what I believe should be worked out, and I already have some questions, is why this transaction and the option agreement were not rejected by all the opposition parties in the Vienna Landtag and there is an axis here between the SPÖ and the FPÖ and the FPÖ and welcomes this. There are, as I mean, some remarkable things you should know here in the high house. If I am properly informed, Mr Vilimsky is one of the three Secretary-Generals of the FPÖ. I think, Doctor, you should also know that Mr. Vilimsky is in the soldiers of the SPÖ-Rathause. He gets a Gage there and works here in the press and information service as a speaker, but is partially exempted in some form because he is active here, so he gets only 75 percent of this Gage. This shows of course an interesting axis, which is also possible in various other areas. That is to say, the Secretary-General of the FPÖ is paid by the SPÖ Councilhouse in Vienna! Of course, you can now think about something or something. Nice, Mr Eder. Don't look at that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4590	Next item is the report by Mrs Trunk. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4611	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, allow me three comments on the comments made by my previous speakers. Point one: My colleague Bucher, to the formulation you have stressed, Matznetter had referred to any person's spiritual subcontracts, I now say quite openly: Mr Bucher! First of all, one should not close to others, and the position of the SPÖ, the Federal Chancellor's Party, in this government coalition, is of course not the position that the BZÖ had under the ÖVP government. That's for clarification. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point: On the comments of Mr Auer: In addition to a change of course, these Federal Governments, and especially the Federal Chancellors, have also put in perspective something like a new political culture of dealing with them. Mr Auer, with all appreciation – he is not here, but you will tell him; we have long known each other from the Committee on Budgets, and I think there is mutual respect and respect: It makes little sense, also Mrs Colleague of the ÖVP, if the representatives of the current coalition parties discredit each other on the government bank, in the case of Auer against Matznetter, and then defamate the opposition. [[Abg. Steibl: Auer makes a good work, one of the best!]] For example, Mr Rossmann is an expert and also a member of the National Council. And I think it's good for Members to know what they're talking about. And since the competence vis-à-vis retains the political mandate in a discriminatory way, that is not the political culture that the new Federal Government has written on its flags. Third point: Mr Rossmann, the national defence budget – I asked Norbert Darabos – sounds so high, but is no more and no less than the minimum means to implement the reform. And in this reform commission and in this decision-making, Mr Pilz was there too. That means that this is not a priority because we are so enthusiastic about investing in national defence, but rather the minimum means of implementing the reform. Again: It is true that the SPÖ agrees – and the Secretary of State has done so – to allow different ministries to have money for two months. That's a two-month commission, that's right; but it's not right that SPÖ's consent would have anything to do with the almost posthumous consent to a BZÖ-ÖVP budget course in recent years. The position of the SPÖ, and I think that has also been the basis of the new Federal Government, is a radical change of course. The Grasser-Finz-Course – I think, absent or due to the October elections, you shouldn't blame anyone anymore – has definitely been characterized by a harsh, cold neoliberalism. We know a lot of shortcomings, not only in the social and economic field, but also in the area of equal opportunities for our young people. I think that the former Chancellor and current clubman also stand for this budgetary course, which represents a change of course, with – and Jan Krainer has formulated it – not overwhelming but very clear priorities where the need is greatest, in the field of education, in the economics, in the social field and also in the field of equal opportunities. From his point of view, Mr Rossmann has expressed criticism of this course and has meant that it is more managed and designed. Mr Rossmann and others! I have the hope and, in fact, the confidence, particularly in the Social Democratic Ministers and Ministers, that in the future it will be a matter of managing efficiently and sparingly, in order to have scope to make innovative and future-proof. I'll build on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4657	The next item is Mrs Tomandl's speech. You've done three minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4678	Madam President. Mr. Minister of Finance! Mr. State Secretary! Madam President, by the way, my name is T a mandl, I am not new to this House, but I have been here since 2003, and I think you should already know that. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] On the comments of Mr Trunk. – Mr Rossmann is, of course, an expert – and no one has criticised this, and no one has agreed to it’s competence – but Mr Rossmann has always spoken very badly about the budget in the budget hearing. And he has also always given false forecasts of what has affected the deficit, tax development and similar and, of course, growth. His criticism today, why the budget has now been negotiated at once in a week and on the other hand has been negotiated for months in the form of government, Mr Weinzinger has actually answered this, but just don't hold on to this issue today. He said that the budget was a government programme cast in figures. And I think that's exactly why a week of budget negotiations have been enough. We have already agreed on issues and priorities during the coalition negotiations, which only had to be established in the budgetary negotiations with the respective ministers of the department. That is, I think we could really shorten this debate today if we focused on the essentials, namely what we decide today. We have to decide on a legal budget, i.e. the amendment of the Ministry Act, which is the first time. March is valid, can enter into force and the new ministers or their new departments can have and work the necessary money. If some colleagues, including the Red Reichshalt, constantly criticise the policies of recent years and our budgetary policy: I can already remind you that the debt from the period before 1999 came that we could reduce the government debt ratio from 66.5 percent in 1999 to 62.8% of GDP in 2000 and that we also made 20 billion less debt in the years 1999 to 2006. Our course is the right course. In the government negotiations, in the coalition negotiations, you have not far away from our course. I have confidence here, and I am already looking forward to the budget negotiations and the budget speech of our Minister of Finance, who will give my birthday the budget speech: a gift to me. I thank you for that now!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4726	The next item is the speech by Mrs Maij-Weggen. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4748	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! The creation of a budget is always a gratification. It does not matter whether it is the budget of a small community or, as today on the agenda, the federal budget commission 2007. Money's getting tighter and tighter. However, existing resources should be distributed as well as possible. A very clear signal has been sent by the new Federal Government under the leadership of Federal Chancellor Alfred Gusenbauer. It has not only created this double budget in a record-thinking time, but has also succeeded in ensuring a balanced distribution. And this, although a heavy legacy of the previous black and blue-orange government has been taken over with all the burdens – I only say Eurofighter. The current OECD study has also confirmed that in recent years, in Austria, the tax and tax rate for employees of 48.1 percent was significantly higher than the OECD average of only 37.5%. In order to be able to distribute, you have to save first. – These savings of around €620 million for 2007 and € 640 million for 2008 will be achieved through reductions in discretion expenditure in the department, the reduction of staff of 400 officials, property sales and one-off effects. The reduction in the budget deficit is essential. The good economic situation with a forecast economic growth of almost 3% of GDP should make it possible for the unilateral burden of recent years on the lower and medium incomes. Despite the difficult circumstances, budget resources can be made available for important investments in the future: in the field of research, growth and employment, as well as in the field of education, by reducing the number of school pupils to 25 pupils. I am particularly pleased now that measures can also be taken to help the particularly weak population by providing for minimum pensions and minimum social security in the budget, as the weakest ones have been forgotten by the previous government. - We're thinking about these people.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4796	Mr Steindl spoke as the last speaker in this debate. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4817	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Bundesminister and Deputy Chancellor Willi Molterer very warmly on these very fast and fast budget negotiations 2007/2008. ==References== In March 2007, it was concluded in general consensus. We've heard that we didn't necessarily need a provisional. However, due to various distributions of competence in the departments, it is useful to take the appropriate measures here on the basis of the adoption of the Federal Finance Act 2006. I also think it is very important that an expenditure commitment of 4 percent is committed in the case of discretion expenditure. In this context, I would like to say that it is a good feeling for a responsible politician to know that a balanced budget is finally being drawn up over a cycle of economics. And every economist, as well as everyone who has a certain house mind, knows that the basis for sustainable positive economic development is a balanced state budget and sound state finances. If one had been so solid in dealing with these state finances over the past decades, we would have much, much more scope today. I remember that without an annual interest rate burden of about €7 billion, we could afford a lot more. And if today some of the representatives of the Social Democratic Party have meant that the Eurofighters are costing so much money, I would like to answer this: We could, if we had to pay less interest, make these expenses much easier than we would have done anyway. Finally, perhaps a few words on property tax: Mr State Secretary! I am currently dealing with a case of the capital tax requirement. In the state of Salzburg, in the city of Salzburg, one of my relatives from his stepfather has received a property – yes, not property tax, but inheritance tax; I wanted to comment on the inheritance tax statement – property. [[State Secretary Dr. Matznetter: Inheritance tax!]] Due to the determined value, the unit value and the tax class, which, if not related to the deceased, is 50 percent, an inheritance tax of approximately €160 000 has been prescribed, which he cannot pay as a single earner – in about 1,200 square meters in the city of Salzburg, with an old stock of buildings on it – so that he is now forced to sell this building in order to pay this inheritance tax. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Dr. Matznetter]] - Well, there's certainly a need for action here. I would also like us to avoid double, triple and quadruple taxation and therefore abolish this inheritance tax. I think it is possible, with joint efforts, wise politics and hard-working citizens, to restore the state budget to absolute order and keep the Austrian economy on track of success.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4863	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall then proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 33 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore majority accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. - That's the majority. In this way, the draft law is also adopted by a majority of the third reading. [[14:36:14]] 2. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (25, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Civil Society Fund Act 1996 and the Flood Victims Reparation and Reconstruction Act 2005 (34 e.g.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4912	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker is Mr Jakob Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e4943	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This novel of the Civil Fund Act is, in a simplified way, the answer to the fact that last year there was first the drought, then the flood and at the beginning of this year the storm. Here you can say: Austria is helping because the legal requirements are present. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who experience such a damage personally or in the case of the recovery of such incidents can assess how difficult it is for the person concerned and how important it is, in such cases, to be able to secure support and remedy from the disaster fund at the federal level. Ladies and gentlemen! In the end, this disaster fund – an institution from an ÖVP state-of-the-art time, as a result of the problematic floods of 1957 – has raised enormous resources in the various decades and has therefore helped to ensure that compensation can be paid. Nevertheless, it is quite clear that: We must consider distinguishing between insurable and non-insurable damage. Where you can insure yourself you should think about finding perhaps a similar scheme to that of hail insurance: a premium support, but then the obligation so to be sure; and if you don't assure yourself, there's no support from the cat fund either. But non-insurable damage will continue to be secured from the Kat Fund. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also on this occasion to thank the thousands of volunteers who are always ready to put personal commitment to the top, not to ask: [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ]] What does that bring me? Where can I help? – However, it is already clear here that the availability of voluntary teams in the field of voluntary fire brigades is becoming more difficult. There are now the positive conditions in many communities that this assurance or this willingness to help and to be available will of course be taken into account in the reception of staff. It is positive to note that the country of Upper Austria has made a new novel where, in such cases, aid can also be granted to firms when such employees are on the move for a longer period of time. Nevertheless, additional funds and legal requirements will be needed so that this problem can be addressed in fact. Ladies and gentlemen! It should also be noted, particularly in the context of floods, that the question of spatial planning is much more important than ever. It can't be that in the pictures one sees again and again that new raw buildings are being built in floody areas that are flooded again and again! Here, too, you have to take care of yourself. [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is also a matter of taking on responsibility, not, as it were, of speaking the word or simply saying yes, because it is easier to say than no. It is important to know and implement these points. Today's novelties ensure that farmers in many areas which have been damaged by drought can be helped accordingly. It's interesting: In the one federal country, in which one region there is a drought, in the other federal country, in the other region there is land slide, floods, floods, and ultimately, also various regions were massively affected by the storm Kyrill, with partly dramatic damage to our forest owners. Therefore: Thank you for being able to fix this novel of the disaster fund across parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5016	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. He's done a speaking time of 4 minutes. - Please, you're speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5037	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker has given a very substantial opinion on the tasks of spatial planning. I know as someone who has also worked for a very long time in local policy, that this question is one of the most difficult issues facing the municipal council, but ultimately also the citizens, and I believe that – unfortunately! – are still being built in so-called Red Zones buildings that simply do not belong there. On the contrary, we should, even detours from the “red zones” because I simply believe that in drainage areas, not only the construction of new buildings, which ultimately lead to these damage and to the Human disasters lead, not to allow, but also to resolve mistakes committed. The second point, which is also important to me and which I would like to reinforce: the question and role of volunteers – not only the fire brigades, because it has also been used by rescue organizations and other voluntary organizations. I believe that we must be aware that it is becoming more and more difficult to provide those services for society that are simply indispensable to society – but that many can no longer deliver in terms of economic conditions. After all, not everyone in a service relationship can carry out his service as a volunteer, as easily as he would like to do, over a few days – even if he would take a vacation. That is why I think it is essential to provide real additional money here and, above all, to set up measures to enable the work of the volunteers. Finally, it is the responsibility of all of us to arrange the area in such a way that we can be sure that these people can also deliver their services where and when they are needed! [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Scheibner.]] That is an essential condition. Something else, ladies and gentlemen, We talked about spatial planning. I would like to say that not only the spatial planning, but also the prevention and prevention measures in the field of flood protection must be more involved in the considerations. But above all – I am really saying this as one who can very well judge it – the time period that is often given here, for example in some projects from 10 to 15 years of age, is simply too long. Decisions need to be made more quickly on measures to address threats. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a lot to do with the procedure, but above all the prevention is still the best way to stop human tragedies, as we have experienced in Lower Austria and in other federal states. I believe that today, with this extension, we can ensure that the damage to agriculture, but also to flood victims, can be reimbursed again this year. Prevention, and this is our obligation, must be organized quickly, even with regard to the procedures with the property owners – I am speaking openly here – because it cannot be so that individual property owners can take proceedings over many years, while the others must live in fear and horror! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5086	Mrs Lichtenecker is now speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5107	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) We will be pleased to accept this amendment, the present draft law on the disaster fund and the flood-offering compensation law. We find it necessary to actively help people in very difficult situations, in extreme situations. For us, of course, it is also a matter of how many people are involved here. I can agree with Mr Auer's statement that we in Upper Austria have come a step forward to introduce regulations and improvements here. But the question is: Why is that necessary at all? And if we look at that, we can see that all the environmental reasons and environmental reasons have. As regards floods: Of course, the flood is caused by the extreme of weather, but of course, floods are also created to a great extent as a result of the installation and upgrading of rivers, which in extreme rainfall can no longer grasp all of this. It is the loss of the rooms for the waters and it is the increasing sealing of the sifting surfaces that play an essential role here. Summa summarum has been taken from the rivers over the decades – and now you have to fight with enormous follow-up costs. If one now considers the benefits from the disaster fund, the coverage of crop failures and so on, then one must find that these are also due to weather extremes – from drought, violent rain – and one must also ask: Where does that come from? – There’s one of the factors that makes climate change safe. Both together, climate change and non-respect of natural laws, result in costs, both for households and for businesses, as well as for public households, which, for example, want to compensate for damage levels. But these are the costs that everyone has to bear – and here you have to put on. The means used to cover the costs involved are to be and must be put into prevention so that all of this does not happen! Now I already know that this will take place, but you must actively take this step and invest in the right things. And that also means paying attention to nature and nature, that is to say to carry out ecologically sustainable tourism projects. If we are already in tourism, it should be noted that all that climate change brings will have enormous effects in this area too. The first signs were already there. This will intensify further, and the costs will be borne by the general public again. Of course, then, we need a spatial planning that respects the rules of nature and acts precisely in this sense. This is, of course, already a point – Mr Bauer spoke of localisation projects from the “Red Zones” and the acquisition of the costs by the public authorities: People buy cheap Building ground, mayors partially disregard these zones, devote themselves to, and then they have the problem that they have people who are affected by the damage. [[Abg. Prince: Be careful! Watch out!]] Here too you have to ask and look: Then who really is the cost? – Such things need to be looked more closely, not just at first glance say: Let's do it, and let's do it! And promise the blue from heaven. [[Abg. Wheelers: No submissions!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Wheelers: No submissions!]] Climate and nature conservation is not only an environmental challenge, but also a fundamental economic and social challenge, which must be met. In the next few weeks' budgetary negotiations, we will have the opportunity to pay attention to prevention and to avoid costs that everyone would then have to bear.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5193	The next item is the speech by Mr Grastaur. 8 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5216	Madam President, thank you for your speech! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Because Mrs Lichtenecker has now spoken about the environment, an information that is very up-to-date: There was another incident in Temelín. A few hours ago, radioactive material left again. – I think the government is urgently called upon to accept this problem! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. That's it. That's it.]] But now to the present government proposal. – The FPÖ agrees with this government proposal. It is appropriate that there should also be additional funding from the flood-offering and reconstruction legislation for 2007 to cover the 2005 and subsequent damage and complaints from the disaster fund. That's all right, and it's certainly also high time that those who have lost part of the goods and property will soon come to their compensation. Until the proceedings come back to life, it will be June this year anyway. After all, those who are unhappy can't have to wait so long for their compensation because of the delay in government negotiations and coalition negotiations in recent months. With these additional resources, not only the flood damage of Vorarlberg, but also the storm damage caused by “Kyrill” can be solved. I would now like to focus very briefly on the extent of floods in Vorarlberg; Landesrat Egger has just reported on this. The flood caused the following damage in Vorarlberg in August 2005: 1 698 requests for aid were received, of which 642 received private, 131 companies and 77 municipalities from the disaster fund. The total amount of damage incurred due to the flood in Vorarlberg was estimated at €180 million in 2005. The above-mentioned 850 positive claims amounted to €50.6 million, for which aid amounting to €26.6 million was paid. The remaining balance of almost 50 percent of the damage must be borne by those concerned in other forms. There is already a question of whether, as is already successfully practised in Switzerland, a model of a solidarity community for the coverage of elemental risks should be developed. I think Austria should look at this model. A study on this is that every euro invested in flood protection and disaster prevention saves 4 € in repair costs. Back to Vorarlberg. – The authorities worked excellently there, quickly helped. They are to be thanked for this, but it is also to be thanked, as mentioned, for the many helpers who have contributed to avoiding the worst. However, the Vorarlbergers do not wish to be a centrally active agency to be set up to protect against natural hazards, as the Ministry of the Environment seems to be planning to do. We of the FPÖ also believe that the task of resolving natural disasters should be left in the field of the countries. We all know that the causes of these increased environmental disasters are the slow-going climate change. In Austria alone, there have been many natural disasters in recent years. I am thinking only of the floods in 2002, the floods in Vorarlberg 2005, the March floods in 2006, the snow pressure disaster in 2006 and, lastly, the hurricane “Kyrill”. One aspect of this is the warming of the sea by increasing CO2 emissions. These cause more and more storms with the most terrible consequences. The total damage caused by environmental disasters worldwide in 2005 alone amounted to €160 billion. You have to imagine that! The number of damage events has doubled since 1960 and the total damage has increased. In view of this extremely worrying development for the population, I think it is simply a crime that there are still countries that refuse to sign the Kyoto Protocol, let alone act economically accordingly. However, there is also a challenge to double-landing in the Austrian government, especially in the Austrian People's Party. [[Abg. Murauer: Hö! Why that?]] Minister of the Environment Pröll, on the one hand, calls on the population to refrain from long-distance travel due to CO2 taxation, on the other hand, the ÖVP agrees to a back-date of the Eco electricity law, which causes the Simmering gas power plant, which naturally emits CO2, to come out of the eco-pot.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5278	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5299	Thank you, Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The global climate change presents us with completely new challenges. It is, I believe, now clear and undisputed to everyone that these changes also influence our microclimate enormously. That is why I am right to all my previous speakers that it is the political challenge and task of this generation to correct the mistakes made in the past as regards the influence on nature. I think it is very important to take one into account: Scandalization does not bring us further, but it also brings us a very objective, very serious and reasonable awareness, also as regards consumers, also as regards the guests as regards Austria as a tourist country, as a tourist world champion, because nature is one of our greatest capitals we have to market and which we also have to preserve for the future. That is why we should deal with this very carefully, and we should also deal with this issue very carefully. I do not think it would be possible to scandalise climate change in such a way that we drifted into an argument that does not always benefit our economic location. That is why I am very, very careful about this issue. We have also put forward a tourism survey that will deal with climate change, with a number of experts who are here also helping us with advice and action in order to further align tourism policy objectives with these changed conditions in the future. Another point I do not wish to mention is thanks to the authorities that act very quickly and unbureaucratically when climate disasters threaten people. They give people in our country a sense of security, and the citizens appreciate that in the event of disasters in this country, the public administration helps that a large number of volunteer people in our country, whether this is the federal army, the fire brigade, the Red Cross, whatever organizations are, are happy and always at the place when such disasters break in over us. All these organizations are worth our I know and thank you. That is why this law is a very important law that we are happy to give our approval. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5338	President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5360	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would now like to make a contribution to the discussion which I have not yet been able to answer in the Committee. I allowed him to write in writing on 6 June. March to answer. However, I would like to add the essentials here briefly. The question raised by the honourable Member, Mr Mag. Rossmann was aware of the extent to which the feed contributions in the amount of € 1.25 million contribute to Austria's economic location and its impact. I have answered the question in such a way that, as a whole, damage of 4 million can be expected from the drought. Although that doesn't sound like much, it's a lot in individual cases, because it means to the respective farmer, who does not have the necessary feeding mass, that only two possibilities remained for him: to sell the cattle and to adjust the attitude of these animals either completely or then to start rearing. For the purposes of this measure, the impact on the economic location of the total feed purchases is relevant for approximately 2 700 to 3 000 applicants, in the economic impact of maintaining these livestock stocks and thus the following overall management in these regions. – That's the part one. Part two dealt with a wide range of issues, which have in particular pointed out that, as a result of the human change in the climate, we are increasingly facing disasters. If you allow me: We must be happy for over a year in which we do not have any such disasters. We are therefore forced on the part of politics to take greater precautions for this. Yes, it is true that the precautions cannot be covered by the subsequent damage suffered by the people, but that an important and essential part of the funds can be invested in prevention in advance. In this context, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that this year, with a total volume of €300.7 million for the disaster fund, an amount of €220.3 million in prevention measures and € 26.7 million in fire brigade equipment will flow. It should be noted that a major priority will be to take appropriate preventive measures in this year too. In the case of all criticism, which is practised in many places because of the lack of space planning: Ladies and gentlemen! Austria is still a country in this field in international comparison. As far as the technical standards are concerned, we have a very receptible infrastructure in Austria as regards precautions. I would like to remind you at this point: The topography of Austria is not simple, neither for the settlement industry nor for the established establishments. And yet, as a country in which the Alpine basin is located, with our infrastructure, we manage to get away relatively bright with our preventive measures compared to other countries. This is where all stakeholders can become involved – In my opinion, countries, unions – also cut off a “slice”, they can say retrospectly: There's something we've done! Our task is to ensure that we continue to put up the necessary funds in this area. And I can tell you: As these 300 million show, we will do so this year too. In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5418	Next item is the report by Mrs Mikesch. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5439	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The natural disasters in recent years have painfully shown us that we too do not live here in Austria on a “island of the Blessed”. Especially in Lower Austria, very many people and many communities were particularly affected. We had a lot to do with the extreme flood events of 2002, 2005, with the drought in 2006, with the storm in this year and also with the snow shortage. At the same time, however, we have seen how people in this country have grown together through these major challenges. An incredible wave of helpfulness was triggered. But politics has also responded quickly and shouldered its responsibility. The 2005 flood-offering and reconstruction legislation ensures that the disaster fund has sufficient resources. With the extension of the period of validity by one year, we are now making sure that payments from the disaster fund are still possible in 2007. This will enable the still open applications for financial assistance to be done positively. It must be our goal to take care of where it is possible and to provide assistance where it is necessary. Projects ensuring sustainable flood protection while improving the ecological status of the rivers must continue to be implemented consistently. Only in this way can such enormous amounts of damage as they brought with them the floods in 2002 and 2005 – we speak of €3.5 billion here! – to be prevented. I am very pleased that important projects on rail flood protection are in Lower Austria and that funding for the next ten years is secured by the federal government, the country and the enormous use of our communities. With the 15a agreement, with our state captain Dr. Erwin Pröll and our State Secretary Mag. When Kukacka was met last December, the three federal states of Upper Austria, Lower Austria and Vienna have implemented the common flood protection. A total of 34 flood protection projects are currently under way. More than € 170 million will be made available in Lower Austria. However, I would also like to address today a problem that has been a major problem for many tourism companies in our daily ski resorts: the few snows that have fallen this year. This has an enormous impact, is just as natural a disaster for these areas, and many people are deprived of their livelihoods. There is also a great responsibility for the media. In some cases, reports have given the impression of many winter holidaymakers: In our ski resorts there is very little snow. It was created a mood with which people didn't really want to ski, which meant that areas where there was enough snow had to suffer severe losses. I would like to have a report for the future, which no longer tightens such a tense situation, but, as in this case, awakens the joy of skiing and allows holiday growers to grow in these ski resorts. With the measure adopted today, we give people the necessary security to experience help and support even in difficult times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5498	Mr Steier. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Your watch is set to 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5519	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Aid for agricultural holdings after the entry into force of exceptional burdens – this is the summary of the present amendment to the Civil Fund Act, which we agree with. This is intended to compensate for damage caused by extreme weather conditions in 2006 and where the respective cost factor for the country and the federal government is € 1.25 million. Since 1991, compensation for weather damage from the disaster fund has been granted on the basis of special provisions on several occasions. These funds are not set up as permanent items of expenditure, because adverse weather conditions, such as hail or wetlands, are considered only under certain conditions as natural disasters within the meaning of the EC Treaty. In principle, there is nothing to object to this amendment to the Civil Fund Act, but several questions must also be allowed: Can that really have been everything now? Can we compensate for the consequences of climate change? Should we not rely on prevention instead of repair? Ladies and gentlemen, climate change is no longer an abstract danger, we are already in the middle of it. Agriculture in particular suffers from its consequences and from the extremes of weather. What we urgently need, therefore, is a paradigm change which has already been mentioned several times, in terms of climate protection policy, which requires compensation. What we need is rethinking both in the field of dedication and settlement policy as well as in energy and environmental policy. This also includes the concentration of climate policy on internal Austrian measures, as it entails positive effects for value added, jobs and air pollution in Austria. This also includes, for example, a very concrete, coordinated strategy between the Federal Government, the Länder and our communities, for example in the fight against fine dust. In the transport sector, we need a label of vehicles by group of pollutants. Vehicles from the off-road sector shall be subject to a periodic inspection of their exhaust gases and, where appropriate, a refitting with filters. And last but not least, politics and administration should progress with good example, with environmentally friendly fleets and climate-neutral missions. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Climate and energy policy are communication vessels, because a high percentage of CO2 emissions are generated in the generation and conversion of energy. The increase in energy efficiency is therefore a very important approach to effective climate protection. In order to adapt the climate strategy, I should like to make a concrete proposal: Let us jointly develop rules for the labelling of the efficiency of all electrical appliances so that consumers also know what they should prefer. So a yes to the novel of the Civil Fund Act, but at the same time a very clear yes to efficient measures for climate protection rather than media debates. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5574	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5596	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Steier, I agree, of course, with your plea for efficient climate change measures. But I have to ask you: Where do your comments to the completely inappropriate eco-electric power law remain? If you really want to reverse seriously, you also have to give the eco electricity a chance. So you can, as it were, stand up to your own efforts and work in your group so that the challenges of the future can also be addressed with the really efficient concepts. This is a global concept of now more than 40 countries. As a model, the energy supply law, the German model was taken, and we would also need this model for Austria. But that is just the front line, otherwise I am quite similar in many of your proposals. I also believe that agriculture is the world's most significantly affected by climate change. There are still more than 40 percent of the world's population directly active in agriculture and are also living on food production. The change of climate, desertification, Sahel zone, to mention a keyword, but also the deforestation of productive regions of the rainforest and the corresponding ecological consequences in these areas have enormous effects in these countries, but ultimately also on ourselves and on our quality of life. That's why: Of course, we are also in favour of the corresponding amendment of the Civil Fund Act, because individual regions are heavily affected by drought, which has happened over the last few years. In particular, the southern Länder of Carinthia and Styria have had years with very strong precipitation declines and very substantial To reduce feed yield, so that compensatory measures are absolutely correct and sensible. To that extent, Mr State Secretary, thank you for the clear answer, how many businesses are affected about here. As you can see, the billing is only partially possible, but that is necessary, and we welcome it from the Greens. A second point, however, should not be forgotten: We are also called on in agriculture and forestry to actively adapt to climate change. This means increasing ground build-up. This means stepping up the humus economy, also discussing appropriate adaptations to the forest, because there are only 50, 60-year changes possible here. The means, for example, to select from dry resistance. This means increasing the soil's water retention capacity by humus building. That would be two concrete measures. It would be important to take greater account of these matters in future advice on information in agriculture. As regards the flood-offering and reconstruction law 2005: Even here, no question, it is right and necessary to ensure the provision of the appropriate funds. A colleague has already mentioned the 3,5 billion € total damage that has arisen. That's not a small amount anymore. And here you have to say one thing: It is imperative to support the innovative projects that are being driven forward in some federal states. Upper Austria keyword: There is a comprehensive flood protection plan here, and it would be absolutely necessary to lift it at the federal level. A federal flood prevention program would now, as it were, be the core of the puddle. We need this approach because otherwise things will overwhelm us. These events come suddenly, from today on to tomorrow – we have seen this in the years when it happened – and then it is too late, then we can only help more with the emergency greeting so to speak. Precautionary measures are the challenge. I would like to focus on the possibilities given here. On the one hand, we should do everything technically necessary and, on the other, make as much as possible ecologically. I believe that this is a focus that should be taken on flood protection policy. There is an important opportunity for land conservation. It has been referred to several times in spatial planning, but this is national legislation, but water law is federal legislation. I made a request in the last GP. I would expect an impulse from the Federal Government here, namely, in the direction that in the areas designated in the area of 30-year-old floodwaters, there are no more construction possibilities and that is regulated by water law. The second thing I would argue for is to increase the protection of high-water contracts in the case of conservation areas and also to develop a concept for them. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5657	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement for 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5678	Madam President. High house! In order to explain the dimension of this Civil Fund Act, a few figures are in advance: We are talking about a total of 1.25 million to pay the farmers the drought that has been caused by the avoided rainfall. In Carinthia alone, the damage caused by the hail last year amounted to €2.5 million, and the forecasts for Carinthia, as Mr Pirklhuber has already said, look dramatic for the southern states of Austria. That is to say, we are not only talking about losses due to harvest losses, but also about problems in water supply and, consequently, problems in tourism. Second point: In Austria we have about 2.4 million hectares of land, 30% of which were affected by drought and heat damage last year. When we do this, we come to about 720 000 hectares, and with an assumption of 20 percent harvest loss to about € 72 million total damage alone in the field of the green land. The EU climate port also has a very gloomy future: As a result of climate change-related droughts, floods and so on, 90,000 people would die annually in Europe alone from 2070 onwards. 90,000 people in Europe – these are scenarios that we could not imagine, but which are already taking place today. Now we turn the view around and look at the average of the farmers affected in Austria. We assume that an average holding has about 25 hectares, and if you accept half the harvest loss, that would result in 6 500 € harvest loss in a farmer. With these € 1.25 million you, Mr Matznetter, cut, we could only increase some aid to 200 farmers in Austria. That is, in practice, only a very small and insignificant part will get help. It is basically an eye-catching, the farmers are certainly not helped with these € 1.25 million. In other words, we needed to help farmers in 2006 alone, about 25 million in order to be able to provide a certain amount of help. In this law, however, we are not only talking about farmers, we are also talking about much larger tasks coming to us. Also universities and research institutions, insurance companies have long recognized that these problems will come to our attention. The U.S. military is already facing violent conflicts about food, water and energy. That is to say, as the state of Austria, we have the task not only of becoming a crisis manager in the future, but of putting all the levers in motion forward in order to overcome the forecast consequences of climate change. Why? – It is not just about the CO2 emissions that are known. The dimension may also be clarified in this regard: Under the auspices of the United Nations, an intergovernmental body was set up in 1988 to deal with climate issues. At the time, it was said that a drop of at least 60 percent would be necessary to achieve something positive in this area. And today, in the Kyoto Protocol, we are fighting for a 5% reduction. That means that this is also an eye-removing, and thus nothing will be achieved. Once again to the second point, which is never thought of at all: This is the so-called Global Dimming, that is, the global evaporation. In Russia and the USA alone, the sun exposure is reduced by residues of combustion in the atmosphere. What that means is clear: This also affects the photosynthesis, which accelerates the whole vicious circle. Not only a warming, but also a decrease in photosynthesis are the result. These are disastrous consequences that multiply in the vicious circle. We in Austria can do a lot to change that. We are a land very well equipped with organic farming. Bio-agriculture is active climate protection, and with organic farming, with strengthening in the bio-agricultural sector, we could, after calculations by the University of Graz, bring back the CO2 emitted in Austria in 100 years. Another proposal is to pay attention to a climate-friendly purchasing behaviour, i.e. to try to sell and buy more domestic food. A research facility, namely Kepler University in Linz, has said that if we consume only 30 percent more domestic food here in Austria, we could achieve a GDP increase of €6 billion while at the same time creating 50 000 new jobs. Thus, these €1.25 million are cosmetic corrections. It would be urgent to tackle this area very quickly and intensively in order to achieve genuinely efficient measures in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5742	The next item is the speech by Mr Eßl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5763	Madam President. Estimated Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! The change in the Civil Fund Act 1996 is the subject today, and in the previous speeches there have been quite a few important things I would like to say. Mr Bauer has said that prevention is really important. Now, of course, we could discuss climate change, the taxation of aviation fuel and fuel, as proposed by the Minister for the Environment Pröll, which I very much support. Mr Bauer, of course, also referred to the farmers, and I would like to point out that there is also someone who is affected by it in the case of protection measures. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, farmers are committed to prevention and are committed to preventive measures. It must be possible, however, that there is a balance of interests, a balance of value between the beneficiaries and the disadvantaged. And I could imagine that we are discussing amending § 44 in the Water Law Act insofar as the shelterer, who is protected, is obliged to do so in order to give a corresponding compensation to the superior who is affected in the future. But back to the Civil Fund Act. It is these damage that we now want to compensate for, especially in the federal states of Carinthia, Lower Austria, Vorarlberg, but also in Salzburg; in total it concerns 2 500 to 3 000 farmers, in the state of Salzburg it is 330. Everyone will understand that the Huber farmer can't cope with it so easily that it loses 30 or even 40 percent of the harvest by storm. The Huber farmer would probably be at risk in his existence. And there it is quite more reasonable that we support him in the purchase of substitute feed. In this way, we can prevent emergency sales from being made and even greater income losses occur. It is therefore a question of reducing the need of individual people, and therefore I also do not fully understand the question raised by Mr Rossmann as to the extent to which payments from the disaster fund have an impact on the economic location. This is not a question of documenting economic policy objectives, but rather of reducing some of the damage caused. This is about helping people in need accordingly. It is not possible to cover 100 percent of the damage, but a relief of the damage should succeed. This also applies to the damage caused by the latest windshield disasters. I am also concerned that these damages will be dealt with accordingly, that we will make money available for them. Voices So they agree to the change of law so that we can help the people concerned and secure existences! Those who have suffered great damage need the aid of the Republic!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5806	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5828	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) This Federal Act extends the scope of the flood-offering and reconstruction law. I called and asked the country of Upper Austria yesterday, and this confirms very much that this extension was necessary: There are still 25 cases in the country of Upper Austria from 2005. As you know, Upper Austria has also had such extraordinary floods in the Danube region. But we also had them in the district of Schärding, in Steyr and in the Aisttal in the Mühlviertel. On my question as to why the handling of these cases takes so long, the answer was that it is often very difficult to estimate the self-performance, that is, the performance of the people concerned themselves, and that there is often great resistance to the recognition of this self-performance. Therefore, it is more than necessary and more than just to extend the validity of this law by another year. There is also a major problem with regard to the level of recognition in principle. That is, the remuneration is often affected, and the whole is rolled up from the front until the people finally come to their compensation. I have felt very positive from the country of Upper Austria – and I would like to say this here – that after two and a half years the stakeholders will be automatically informed: Of you are not yet available for the damage that has been announced to the community. We need these urgently to settle. – Thank you for that too. I would also like to say a few words, because this is also about the prevention of water pollution: Our Secretary of State Christa Kranzlwar in Upper Austria about 14 days ago and has already included 171,9 million € in the 2007 and 2008 budgets. And for this, Mr State Secretary, I would like to thank you very much, but also the Secretary of State, for precisely these projects are for the safety of people in these regions, but also for the economy in the form of contracts, bringing jobs, bringing value to the region. Above all, it is an investment in the future and in security. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5871	Next item is the report by Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5892	Mr President! Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! These amendments and proposals have already been said very much by my previous speakers, they are guarantees of financial resources, important measures for the people concerned in our country. However, allow me to make two more points: two points from the point of view of a Tyrolean Member, from regions with very small and low habitats. In re-planning red zones, I also ask you to bear in mind that the habitat there is small and very small and that people have lived there for generations with nature, and there will always be a residual risk there and there. Mrs Lichtenecker of the Greens has given a beautiful speech, knowing how to prevent floods. To the Tyrolean Lech in the Tyrolean Lechtal, a demonstration project of the Greens – there were fifty press conferences held by the Greens there – I must say, however: Today we all know that these measures were excessive for animals and plants. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... “excessive”!]] And today we also know that these measures have been forgotten on the people and on their habitat there. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] We should also learn from these disasters: that the highest priority must be for people and their habitats. And I wish, or I wish, that the Green Party also recognises that not every measure you put under the cover of nature protection is a good measure in the sense of human beings. I should like to appeal to all those who are involved in nature conservation, not to do cheap populism at the expense of nature, from the knowledge of learning from the past. One could make a press conference in the Tyrolean Lechtal without a doubt, where one admits that scenarios that one has painted and predictions that one has met were quite wrong. This, too, ladies and gentlemen, is part of the daily life of politicians! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'd like to. And I'm glad I'm in a party where you have courage to be honest there and there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5944	Next item is the report by Mr Rada. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e5965	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My very much appreciated Ladies in this high house! Today, when we talk about the amendment of the Civil Protection Act, I think that is a matter of law that is more or less undisputed. I listened carefully to the previous speakers and must say: A big plus to that and an emphasis on what was said by Mayor Auer, who meant that one might also deal with the spatial order. And if that says a mayor, then of course it has its weight, because of all the reasons why sometimes disasters happen, the spatial order is also a reason. Because today so much has been said about how much farmers are affected: Farmers are affected, animals are affected, Austrian nature is affected, but there are also very, very many people with it. Many people have also been affected in recent years, whether it has been in Tyrol, Vorarlberg or Lower Austria. I'm a low-Austrian, and I just a year ago had to experience a disaster in an area where I never thought it would happen, and I have to say: I am glad that there is a compensation in the area of civil protection. But the 30 percent are far too high. And above all, it comes on one thing – and I don't want to take on an insurance advertising right now: Only those who help quickly help twice! We have to deal with a very high level of bureaucracy in all these areas, so that these people come to their promotions. This is about taking these measures very quickly. In addition, there is a great deal of preventive action, and we are a little behind in many areas. When it comes to protecting nature, I must say: I certainly have nothing against any rare birds, whether they are called Trill or otherwise, or not against any orchid species that grow on certain protective insulations. These are important and necessary, but apart from: We cannot now put in place the preventive measures because we cannot strengthen the dams, because there is just a rare bird nesting there or there a certain kind of orchid blossoms. – That’s really not how it can be! People and agriculture must take precedence here. These measures must be able to be implemented. As Mr Bauer has already said, we must not forget in this discussion one thing: the many, many volunteers who are in operation in all the flood damage, in all natural disasters. For these, very little has been done in prevention and sustainable security. I welcome this law, but in further discussion it is also necessary to consider all other accompanying measures.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6011	As the last speaker, Mr Dr. Sonnberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6032	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! The aim is to extend the period of validity of the flood-offering and reconstruction legislation and to establish the legal basis for the purchase of feed substitutes. This gives an opportunity to say thank you – thanks to the fire brigades, to the relief and rescue organizations, to the police, to the administration, to numerous private individuals, to helpers who were in operation during the disasters. In the beginning of 2002, Austria was faced with major challenges. All involved in the weeks of disaster were doing excellent work. This visible and noticeable collapse of people in Austria, this living solidarity is a beautiful sign. However, natural disasters are also the occasion to question and improve crisis and disaster management. In particular, the rapid and unbureaucratic handling of the damage is important. Whoever helps quickly – and that has already been said – helps twice! Here the countries and municipalities deserve the highest praise. In any case, I can say this to Upper Austria: In the first flood of 2002, 23 000 cases were done positively within a short period of time and account payments were made within days. It also worked with the damage treatment excellent in 2005/06. The government negotiations were not at all a reason why payments have been delayed. This is based on the countries and is later re-founded by the federal government. There is also an excellent flood protection concept in Upper Austria. Appropriate protection concepts save follow-up costs, i.e. disasters, if they are used in a meaningful manner. Upper Austria has also had consequences in the field of construction and spatial planning. This was not a simple discussion that took place. In the regions with the population, Hiesl was appointed by the Landeshauptmann Deputy in Hiesl. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would also like to mention positively that from 1st century onwards. On July 1, in Upper Austria, companies will receive part of the wage costs from the country if their employees work in the use of disasters, namely, from the fourth day exactly half of the wage costs. – Also a positive approach. [[Complementary of the Abg. Hagenhofer.]] This law ensures that the person concerned can be effectively helped in the future. That's why I'm seeking approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6092	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6114	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! A great deal has already been said about this matter of law, but only a few additional comments from me. Especially crazy weather caprioles have caused great damage again last year. The discussions in recent days on climate protection have shown how different this topic is often seen, often according to the motto: Climate protection yes, but not with me! – about I took it from the media. In any event, however, whether the proposal of the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs has been done or not, the fact is that the measures envisaged so far are not sufficient to ensure our climate change sustainable. And the fact is that we still need enormous action. Especially the extreme weather situation last year has particularly affected agriculture. As in the past few years, there have been huge harvest losses, especially in feed. It is therefore necessary and important that the Cat Fund, as mentioned above, provide the €1.25 million for various feed purchases. We are also changing the flood-offering and reconstruction law today, because not all the damage from 2005 and 2006 has been done. Let me briefly address a problem, ladies and gentlemen, of which the communities are often very negative. Various protection measures against floods are currently being planned and negotiated in Upper Austria, and there is a mayor who unfortunately has a lot to do with this matter – Mayor Gaßner can sing a song of it – and it is often very difficult for the communities to deal with these procedures. The example of the Machland dam shows how complicated and how long such procedures can take: This project has been under way for ten years. Many negotiations have already been completed, but this project is currently in the EIA. – Ten years, or a little longer than ten years, this project will take, and it is not to be stopped when it can finally be realized. We therefore believe that the areas of water law and construction law as well as spatial planning belong to the relevant agendas in the project processing process. We really need a central place where these important and necessary protection projects are coordinated and where the community also needs to be coordinated from the project team to Finally, it will be accompanied. It is simply a matter of ensuring that these measures are implemented more quickly and with more uncomplicated administrative procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6165	The last one in this debate is Mr Magistrate. Hauser in word. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6186	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Thank God there is this law, and the previous speakers have already noted: The quick help is important! I am consciously still presenting a case here today, namely from the Tyrolean Oberland, the municipality of Bach, where 13 houses have been under water in every storm for a year. The cellars are up to a meter under water. People don't know what to do anymore. I have tried – even by means of a parliamentary request – to draw attention to this problem here. Unfortunately, nothing has happened to God. I really ask you, even in all those cases that do not concern very many people, to ensure that one helps the affected people. Here – once again – very concrete 13 single-family houses are affected, in a 200-year-old settlement area. These people who live and live there are afraid of the snow melt, are always afraid that rain will fall. But nothing's happened, and that's been happening for a year! So it is not only to ensure that all those who have been shown to have suffered a damage, but also to ensure that preventively something happens much faster so that no further damage is done. That's what I'm going to do, and that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6220	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 25 of the supplements. I am looking for a sign of approval for those ladies and gentlemen who are voting in favour of this bill. – This is unanimously accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – The draft law is therefore also unanimously adopted at third reading. [[15:44:21]] 3rd. Point Report by the Scientific Committee on Amendment 97/A by Dr Gertrude Brinek, Josef Broukal, colleagues on a Federal Act amending the High School and Student Law 1998 (26)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6278	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. I now give the floor to Mr Grünewald as the first speaker. For business treatment a word message? Please, Mr Oillinger.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6308	Madam President. We were just told that the Minister cannot come to this debate because he has an appointment today. Now I think the debate is not a natural event... – Yes, it is another minister. [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Madam President! That is not a point of order! He can say that in the debate!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It's another minister! In the debate on this point: Amendment of the Higher Education Act should actually be present to the competent minister, not some minister. I therefore request the presence of the Minister and request that the Minister of Science be present in the debate on an item on the agenda, which he sees as the Minister responsible.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6355	Is there any further word messages to this effect? - That's not the case. Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky has been officially reported as a representative. Would you like to make a request for the Minister's recovery? . Then I put this request to the vote. This is a motion for a Rules of Procedure to be put to the vote immediately. Who agrees with the request for the competent minister? – This is the minority and thus rejected. We continue in the debate. Mr Grünewald was the first speaker to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please. [[Abg. Steibl: This is not a motion for a Rules of Procedure, Madam President. Incredible!]] [[Further violent calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Klubobmann Schüssel, you spoke about business treatment. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6402	Madam President. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that this is, in itself, a prejudice that we should eventually discuss in the presidency, because the Minister is properly represented, he is apologised, he is represented by a minister, and therefore, in fact, such a request is not allowed to take place in a business order. Only if a minister is not properly represented would such a request be admissible. So even the vote on this was not all right; actually, even less the way in which one would like to say something about a duly represented minister. This is not all right, and I think we should discuss it in the President-in-Office, Madam President.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6447	Mr Klubobmann Cap has also spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6469	I believe that this is the right thing: the comment on the Rules of Procedure made by Klubobmann Schüssel here before. I am also in favour of mentioning this in the presidency, but I still think that Mr President-in-Office of the Council should be here.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6499	Mr. Klubobmann Westenthaler, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6520	I'm glad you're telling us your political opinion from this microphone, just: This is a debate on the Rules of Procedure – and that is not your political opinion! Madam President, I should like to say: What you have previously done with this vote and with the strangely formulated non-proposal by Mr Ollinger is a new instrument of the House: You have introduced the instrument of the so-called'suggestiv' proposal you have put forward. [[Ironic cheerfulness at BZÖ and at ÖVP.]] You have put Mr Oellinger in his mouth a request which he has not made at all. This cannot be in conformity with business rules, which would not be an objective Presidency. And you really have to criticize that and treat it at the next presidential.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6566	Thank you, Mr Klubobmann. We can discuss this in the next presidency. My impression was that an application was made. – I have now learned on the verge that the proper representation is registered. It would have been possible to say that – but we can discuss it at any time. [[Continued violent calls to the ÖVP.]] I shall try, at least, to comply with the Rules of Procedure in every way. I'm still asking for peace! - That's going to be discussed. [[Abg. Steibl: Weak Presidency!]] I now give the floor to Mr Grünewald to the current discussion on the high school law. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6603	Thank you for the opportunity to spend a few minutes of silence at the Pult. But what certainly agrees with the Rules of Procedure is that I am now allowed to tell you something. – Perhaps Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, as a former ÖH Chefin, can also win off my arguments. I recall the past years, when Social Democracy, also supported by us, has challenged this law at the Constitutional Court for various reasons, because the Austrian High School Act de facto was an attack on a very good tradition of involving students in their own interests at the university. – whole Europe has envyed Austrian students for these benefits. This is now being corrected, but only in those points that the Constitutional Court has removed. – The pretext of this narrow-track, minimalistic correction was that hasten is required because in May it has to be chosen. I can understand that somewhere, though: Not to see what was criticized, not to see what is happening to students, not to hear what the opposition has had on objections, and this simply makes it impossible for us to agree to this law or novel. It would have been different if an offer had been made to change at least on constructive negotiations, so to speak, of a two-stage process. Now just one example of what this law has done: Imagine, in nine federal states there are country elections. After the elections, someone comes to you and says: Hurra, the landing days are elected, we don't need a national council election anymore. The Land Days are now sending their representatives to the National Council, according to the strength of their parties. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The comparison is limping!]] – This makes a lot cheaper, makes a little bit easier, but democracy is not, Mrs Brinek, democracy is not God's! They had motives. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] You have had motives, you have Your university law so described: All autonomy belongs to local universities, therefore the local students need to be strengthened, and the Federal ÖH does not need it de facto in this earlier constellation anymore. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes!]] – But, Mrs. Brinek, students and, above all, ÖH members have a very active cerebral cortex and look through these little games, because students know what they can do locally. They can print scripts, they can offer a service, they can serve customers, they can intervene at bad professors, in bad professors, in strict and unjust examiners, but no more. Ms. Brinek, you know exactly that the laws that affect the students most, fees, contributions, care conditions, budgets of the universities, not in the country days and not at local universities, but in Vienna. – And the ÖH responsible for weakening is transparent! Secondly, you have provided climbing control services for the very sicking RFS in order to help this still give rise to election opportunities. You've done so much that you have to tell the people: The direct election was abolished, as I said at the National Council, no choice at the Danube University Krems – please, let me speak out! – no choice of private universities, half the budgets for the federal representation, no equal voting right. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] Universities with just over 1,000 students have as many mandates as universities with up to 7,400 students. Is that normal? - I don't find it! They have not implemented the introduction of passive voting rights for foreigners studying here. – Which fears plague You there? There are 17 percent foreign students in Austria, and at the end of the day perhaps some Ajatollah ÖH chairperson could become or in full moon nights a foreigner appears as ÖH chairman as a nightmare, which is all very dry and windy argumented. It can only be if the majority of Austrians choose it – and then it is good and right! This is a very provincialist policy, which is in massive contrast to what you say, namely: Austrian universities must become international. – Powidl, nothing will they do! That's scary, anxious, and ultimately cowardly. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Do you see the students as more partners of us, of politics, as partners of the university and not only as consumers and customers, as active politically interested people who so to speak want to participate and want to decide on them too? They have to do the same because this motivates them to practice a democratic situation, a culture of conflict – to improve the university. I feel like I'm a massive abuse and a distrust of the students. Therefore, we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you do this, you need students as political forces – and why should they not be as powerful citizens who will soon acquire an academic degree! This requires a forward-looking use of law and not such a narrow-track construction that only more local activities can be set, but at the federal level, where all the decisive decisions are taken, will be degraded to mere viewers in lodges whose seats are not comfortable anyway. I believe that autonomous students – you always say how courageous the government is – are not a danger with political power and power, but an opportunity. To understand this, you should actually think and be as courageous as you always pretend to want to be courageous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6713	Next speaker: Mrs Brinek. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6736	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky! Dear ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I can begin with an investigation. First: In the representation by Mrs. Federal Minister Dr. Kdolsky, we have a expert representative on this subject. That is, I think, already apostrophic. Secondly, Federal Minister Hahn is on his way to Brussels in a very important EU matter. Framework programme to conduct negotiations with Potocnik and Schavan. At least €57 billion for the years 2007 to 2013. – I believe that his absence is therefore justified, and I ask that the excitement be brought to a halt. A further point on the comments made by Mr Grünewald: I am against subjugating the government parties or my group that we have ever degraded ÖH representatives and students to customers, consumers or whatever you call them – they have always been partners! You will not find the word ‘customer’, ‘consumer’, or any other kind of degrading formulation in the text adopted by us and now also in connection with the request of Broukal, Brinek. I really want to hold on to that. The structure, too, Mr Green Forest, is not a comparison, but not a comparison with the Landstagen and the National Council. The Chamber of Labour, the Chamber of Commerce – these representations of interest correspond in parallel to the high school as a representative of interests, as a public law body and are equally structured. The individual national, regional organizations are sending to the Federal Office. – Do not paint the devil on the wall to say it in Viennese, but stick to the truth as a university teacher! Ladies and gentlemen, the quality of a government is in the ability to focus – and this government has set the right priorities with the focus on education, science and research. Because I used to be 7. I would like to remind the House that the framework programme and the sum of money discussed there will provide 30 000 jobs in the medium term with 3 per cent of research and will therefore provide the best possible service to social and economic development. The Council of Science, Research and Technology Development says the same, supports the efforts of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's not enough, he says!]] – The Council cannot yet say that this is not enough because we have not yet had the budget-detail negotiations, Mr Grünewald! I hope that in the discussions you will also have a clear view of the Council. Again: The focus fits, the basic law UG 2002 is an absolutely modern law in Europe as an exemplary act, and with the ÖH law, which we are now adapting to the constitutional definition of Broukal, Brinek, closes the bow. In no other point has this provision been repealed, the law has been repealed; it has been examined, it has been declared legal and legal by the Constitutional Court. This now creates this small piece, this small element of legal certainty, so that we can conduct and deal with a proper OH election in May. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's leave the church in the village! With the necessary provision relating to the electoral communities, a provision of the regulation will, in some way, move into the law. This creates clarity, and the modern ÖH law, which is quite comparable with other stakeholders, is still improved and made safe by this small piece. I invite you to agree. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6782	The next item is the report by Mr Graf. . I will interrupt the negotiations at 16.04 a.m. to call for the urgent request. - 2 minutes. Please, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6803	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I really consider this issue to be very important today, but with all the engagement – and I wanted to put it before 4 p.m. –: There are in itself a few more important issues that we have to deal with in high school political terms, and this is free access to higher education, which is massively in danger. Usually there would have to be a shout of this house! We are basking a bit around the high school election right – and this is the topic that will be discussed in March 2007! So, Mrs. Kdolsky, as Minister of Health, you are the right contact: We, just coming from this corner, have been alerted to a problem that many Members have accepted more or less. – I think we have to deal with it in a massive way. We liberals confess to research-led teaching in Austria and to free access to higher education, without If and But for all courses of study; with the exception of those fields of study where physical or creative skills are essential, such as in sports or also at the art university, when you learn an instrument. To do something in the other direction is quite right. Ladies and gentlemen! In order not to be forgotten, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] It must not be forgotten that with the last Novels of higher education, direct democracy at universities has also been eliminated. I think it is necessary to really talk more deeply about what kind of university voting right we have at the time of the autonomous universities, of the The Minister of Science no longer finds it worth the effort to speak and answer in the ministry. I think we have many urgent issues that we need to deal with, and I invite everyone to enter into a discourse. After the debate on the urgent request, I will also make a contribution to this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6866	First of all, I declare that the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Groenewald has been properly tabled and is under debate. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e6947	Mr Graf's motion for a resolution, which has now been tabled, is also sufficiently supported, properly implemented and is therefore also under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7011	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 3 of the agenda so that the required procedure for urgent procedure can take place in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[16:05:12]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Eva Glawischnig-Piesczek, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Women, the Media and Public Service on "Women's policy measures: Where do they stay?’ (119/A)(E)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7041	We come to the urgent treatment of the self-employed application 119/A(E). In the meantime, all Members have received the urgent request so that we can withdraw from reading. The urgent application has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7198	Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek received the floor for the urgent request. According to § 74a para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure shall not exceed a speaking time of 20 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7221	Madam President. Mrs Health Minister! Mrs Frauenminister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! ==References== March is the International Women's Day, and I believe that many of us and especially many Austrians are going to feel as in the film "And daily the Murmeltier greets". I don't know who knows this movie. Bill Murray plays with him, he's damned to wake up every day at 6 a.m. the same day and experience the same thing again. – This is how many women politicians and many Austrians in particular always do on the 8th. March, on the women's day. We always have the same situation: It complains of something bad, namely that nothing goes further in essential areas, and on the other hand, there are a number of wishes, recommendations and proposals that are mostly repeated in the following year. One of the most important issues that are always repeated is the separation of income shears, the great injustice in the labour market, that women still deserve significantly less than men. This “And daily greets the Murmeltier” story is very, very old. I do not know if this is known to all, but it was in 1919 when the first female Members, seven social democrats and a Christian-social representative, were represented in this House. Adelheid Popp gave a very remarkable speech back then. Their central demand for women was equal pay for equal work and childcare. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] – So a very long repetition! By the way, a remarkable speech by Adelheid Popp back then. Yesterday, former women's minister Maria Rauch-Kallat, now spokesperson of the ÖVP, proudly announced that the change of course, now announced by the government, by the women's politicians in the government, is the continuation of the work of the old federal government. – I think there is little doubt, especially in the SPÖs, that the old women’s policy cannot essentially be measured by what it has actually done for women, but can only be described by what it has not done for women politically. I remember the Minister of Women's Rights or the last three or four years in which all parameters have deteriorated. In one point, however, Maria Rauch-Kallat is quite right: What is now here and what is now set out in the government programme is essentially, with small exceptions, a continuation of the old black and blue female policy orientation. Unfortunately! What has become of all these wishes, out of all these promises and out of all these announcements of recent years especially by SPÖ politicians? – This is now dramatically breaking apart, which has been expressed in wishes and ideas and has now become reality in government work. I would like to mention a few of the things that were good ideas which were obviously put on the way from the opposition to the government. For example, Alfred Gusenbauer: 100 million-€-Women Fund. – This was mainly about the labour market, increase. It was also about a better orientation of the AMS. Or: Childcare places; I still have the words of Barbara Prammer as Federal Women's Chairperson in the ear: Over 100,000 childcare places are missing, 180,000 care places for students are missing. – What was left of it? The usual dispute we've been observing for years. It will be discussed: Do you need an inventory? You don't need an inventory? The fact is that there is no single euro in the Government Convention for the now discussed only 50,000 childcare places. And: Barbara Prammer, President of the Federal Women's Party, just a few days ago: I think we need quotas again. – She definitely advocates a commitment to women’s promotion and quotas in economic life, she speaks of quotas in the public service. However, the Minister for Women has already given him a clear rejection. Although there are very good, really working examples internationally, in Sweden, in Finland, in Quebec Province in Canada, where legal requirements for the economy are enshrined, Minister of Women Bures is definitely opposed to legal requirements in the economic field. She continues what Maria Rauch-Kallat has always said: It wants to convince that it does not want to convince the private sector by regulations but by good examples. That is, I believe, a dramatic separation between desire and reality: on the one hand, a lattice of demands, many of which are very reasonable, and on the other hand, this lean government chapter, in which no concrete action can be found – unfortunately! I would like to once again describe the four main areas that are important to women in Austria. This is still the issue of income justice, which is the labour market, which is the question of childcare, and that is also the question of what opportunities women have in leadership jobs. What has changed in recent years? And what will change with the government programme? Indeed, we thank the Court of Auditors for the income shear. 2005 would have been the year when, after ten years, a women's report would have been on the agenda again; the ex-wife minister did not do so at that time. However, the Court of Auditors – and this is the point: thank you to the Court of Auditors! – in his current income report, the banishment of the sheer, which continues to lead to increasing injustice between men and women in figures: everyone who wants to know it, and especially all those who need to know it, at the end of December last year. The unfortunate result is that the shear has not come together, but has continued to be open. We are now at a percentage of more than 40 percent, with regard to the difference in income, wages and salaries between women and men, which has continued to differ since 1998. The “woman-euro” is not a euro compared to the “male-euro” but only 60, 70 cents, and in some sectors it is really devastating, especially among the self-employed. In some areas, for example in the health sector, according to the Court of Auditors report, women earn only 20 percent of men's average income – only 20 percent of men's average income! I believe that this is crying out for actions, and I believe that the debate should actually end. I do not want to go back – and I believe that many Austrians do not want to do so – a day of women who all conjure up income shears, and we are leaving the meeting today and have not decided on a package of measures. A few aspects of income justice: It is not just the much described question of family care and child care that hits the women back here. It is even a classic discrimination when it comes to getting into work! If women had a different skin color, they would have been classically discriminated against as black Africans at the apartheid regime in South Africa. 20 percent is the difference if you actually adjusted net wages, part time et cetera! At the start of the career – women are now better trained than men – without any differences, without any need for care, part-time or other exceptional situation, women simply get less: 20 percent less! It's moving away. Even women who make it to the highest floors, to the leadership sets of top companies who do not interrupt their careers, who do nothing but work, earn at the end of the day in the board sets – they are very few anyway – still say and write 27 percent less! Now put yourself in the situation of such a woman! She has only worked to achieve exactly that; her male colleagues deserve more, clearly more! The male colleagues – probably almost everyone – have a family and also have someone at home who organizes everyday life, cares for children and does housework. Isn't that extremely unfair? [[Abg. Scheibner:... but not reality!]] Is that not also according to legal requirements in the economy? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It is not a natural law. In other countries, the problem is also solved; we have been taking it away for over 90 years. But in other countries the problem will be solved, and we are now one of the last countries in terms of gender equality. Even in the EU comparison we do badly: In comparison with the 25th, than still without Romania and Bulgaria, Austria is 20th. Put, ex aequo with Slovakia! So what is it really about? Why is it that we are constantly accompanied by the incitement formulas – as now again on the women's day – and then nothing is done? What does it really mean that there is still a classical gender discrimination? – And this is not only to be explained with care and part-time, but genuine discrimination on the basis of gender! I believe that we should not go out of this room today without presenting a proper package of measures for women's day, which is the most important objective of the closure of income shears, including financing. Ms Bures, where is your package of measures? – Unfortunately, we find only vague announcements in the Government Convention. I would like to come to the second area, the labour market, and quote a classic example of a woman. She's 33 years old – getting such letters She probably also very often – she is a lawyer, has worked for the last six, seven years mainly in part-time, in projects, in works contracts and is then rejected as over-qualified during many application discussions. She writes: At present I depend on working at the same time in several jobs to cover my living costs. How is that possible? – A well-qualified woman! This is a classical fate of a young generation that at the moment – in Germany it is called “Generation Internships” – must work in a completely different reality of life. A classic working relationship is the exception, many work part-time, although they do not have care obligations and would like to work full-time. They work in atypical employment conditions without social security, they work on a contract basis and are always without employment and without income. I depend on working in several jobs to cover my living costs. – What are you doing for these women in the Government Convention? What has remained of this special fund, in addition to the AMS funds, precisely against unemployment and this problem of women being caught in atypical employment, does not come out and need help and support? What are you doing with a government programme in which any project is subject to a reservation of funding and where we have heard today, there will now be savings budgets and then, at the end, a tax reform? What do you say a woman with 33 years of age – seven years of part-time, no fixed income, no fixed job? I believe that before the women's day, we should not go out of this room without a real action programme to promote the return of women who are no longer able to get started, but also for those women who are unable to take a foothold on the labour market. And that's gonna be more and more! Although unemployment is currently falling – you will certainly mention that – but unemployment among men is falling much faster than in women. Much faster – even here a classical discrimination! It is not enough just to make lip confessions and statements here, but there is a need for a comprehensive package of measures with a proper batch of money. I quote SPÖ politicians here: Money is power! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come to the third essential area: Management positions, the opportunities of women in top jobs. It's about the economy, it's about administration and universities. These are the biggest areas of problem we have. As regards the top positions for the largest capital companies in Austria, the largest, listed, strongest-selling company in Austria, in 2004 the management sets were equipped with 39 percent women. A few years later, namely 2006, we already have almost 50 percent exclusively male-led companies. That is, in half of the farms there is no single woman in the top positions! This has also worsened in recent years. What's going to be You're against it? – The government programme is very vague, the share should somehow be increased. If you oppose quotas, please, how do you object to legal requirements, against everything that has binding effect? – Above all, we have as good examples as Scandinavia, Finland et cetera, where this works very well, with a 40 percent quota share in the boards, and the companies manage without any complaints that in fact even these top jobs are made pretty slow equality. At universities it is similar: We have no female rectorate – that is, I think, embarrassing for a country like Austria – although we have more and more graduates. There is now a wave of retirement at Vienna universities in particular, which would be a good opportunity to occupy mostly female. I also wonder: Will you do that? Will you look at the public service here, Mrs Bures, a little bit more? I'll give you an example; maybe you can. You're also putting yourself into this woman. Last summer, there was a unique situation in the Environment Ministry: at the section head level, again the top jobs, only men. There were nine sections in the Ministry of the Environment, whose management was exclusively with men: 9 : 0. Two went into retirement. - What happened? There were candidates. Now put yourself in the role of a candidate: qualified, long service years, hoping that this disproportionate relationship will be balanced, because it is in every law and everywhere: Gender mainstreaming, women belong to the public service and preferred until certain quotas are reached. Then what happened? – The Minister of the Environment actually occupied these two positions with two men. Again 9 : 0! Best: You have a chance now. One of these heads of section goes to Brussels, and I bet with you a box of Schnaps that this position will again be occupied with a man, Mrs Frauenminister! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Should she be occupied with a woman, I'm happy to send you a big box of schnapps. Should she be occupied with a man, you'd better send me a box of Prosecco because I can't drink schnapps yet. That is now ironized, but it describes the problem. Put yourself in the position of women in the public service who are confronted with such situations! [[Abg. Steibl: This is so inconsistency...!]] Men are systematically preferred: 9 : 0! A comparison from football: At a 9 : 0 there was an Austrian coach who then resigned. I would like to extend this to the Minister for the Environment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The fourth and last area is family policy. Mrs Steibl, you will certainly have a lot to do in the debate. [[Abg. Steibl: We have also contributed a lot...!]] You've made a lot of contribution, just say. I'm just quoting your government partner, who was in opposition a few weeks ago: There are 100 000 childcare places missing, and there are no 180 000 school places for students in Austria all day long. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can see that quite differently now!]] In the three-year-olds it is, I believe, aware of the fact that we have a support rate of 12 percent and a catch-up requirement up to 2010, EU targets, to 30 percent. I wonder how you want to do this, if you are doing exactly what the old coalition has done by 1999 in the first few weeks of your government, in order to fight the childcare places exclusively and then to make such “wonderful” proposals as the one: First we make a demand survey and see if we need anything there at all. [[Abg. Steibl:... Day mother care...!]] I come back with an example of a young doctor in a state hospital in a state capital. After one and a half years of parental care, she comes back and wants to work. In this city there is only months later for her child a daymother or a crab tube. It hopes for an operational kindergarten; there is no operational kindergarten. In addition, their working day begins at seven. There is no crab room and no babysitting room, even in a few months not able to cover their working hours, which starts at seven o'clock or also offers night services. Write a word You're going back to a woman like that? We've done everything in recent times, we've tried everything? We raise the need for childcare places once? Let's see where there's a problem at all? – I can give you boxes with letters from women who have problems with childcare places. Therefore, I ask you – addressed to the ÖVP, to the ÖVP government in this government – to consider this argument, and never use it again: We have to raise the need first! Thank you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, there are also inconvenients in this debate. Unfortunately, we have heard comments on this family policy discussion, which from my point of view go much further than until 1919, much further! It is about this image – formulated by churchmen – that women are there and that it is better for young people if they are exclusively cared for by mothers. This is accompanied by a political accompanying music, which, in turn, comes from an ÖVP minister, who is said to be a hope for the future, who actually expresses and formulates the idea of a mother's content in 2007: a minimum salary, a minimum guarantee for a person who stays at home for several years. What happens to a person who stays at home for several years? – I have a case here again: I deserved very well until I was married, I had two children. I then supported my husband in my career. Now I am 50 and earn as much as an 18-year-old in the labour market! – That’s exactly the problem! That's exactly the problem you're preparing for women when you tell them: This is your place, and this is your way. I would also like to see in such a family-political and social-politically important discussion not only the Minister of Women saying something but perhaps also the Chancellor of the Federal Republic or the Vice-Chancellor that we in Austria want and need a family-political model that enables both parents to do so and allows them to spend time with the children, but also to be active. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] Unfortunately, I have only two minutes left and I would like to address a final area – not announced. These were now the four major areas of problem; I would like you to take this seriously and not to present each other on Thursday the general lip confessions, but to see that, in fact, nails are made with heads and today, in fact, also package of measures with funding, with real opportunities for women for the next three or four years. Mrs Bures! You said: My main task is to enable women to reconcile work and family. – A very large group of women have forgotten you and, I believe, also suppressed you because it is an Achilles ferret in the SPÖ! These are women who do not have Austrian citizenship or are married to men who do not have Austrian citizenship, who are extremely severely affected by the foreign law package in their own right, namely their right to family life, their right to family support. I've got a case here, too. However, this is a German who writes that in the end she received the child's money. After all, cosmetic corrections have been made, but for many people it is still not true that a child is supported when it comes to the world, and a family when it has children. That's still not true! She says: Thank God, it was just a temporary effort for me. She describes how she spent hours with her three-month-old infant for the first time in her life with the foreign police, had to copy there and wait two hours until the infant, who was previously well blazed, was less blatant; but that only on the edge. This woman has received childcare benefits, but there are many mothers in Austria who still do not receive them. If we had ratified the Convention on Children's Rights, that would not be a topic anymore. I would ask you not to forget a group of people in Austria in all the political considerations – these are those who do not have Austrian citizenship, which are much more threatened by poverty than other Austrian women, namely migrants, women in this area – and not to banish this, just to have a beautiful feast in the government with the ÖVP. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7402	The Federal Minister for Women, the Media and Public Service has reported on the submission of an opinion. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Mrs Federal Minister, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7423	Madam President. High house! Thank you very much for the opportunity, on the previous day of the International Women's Day, to be able to discuss the women's policy plans of the Federal Government and, therefore, my place here in the House, in which I worked politically for many years! We have set ourselves very ambitious targets in the Joint Women's Labour Convention. We have created an independent women's ministry for which we have been fighting for many years, and we have reached the highest proportion of women ever in a government. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In my opinion, this is a clear signal; that is not a program yet, but I think it is all a good start. In connection with women's policies, I am convinced that what we have agreed in the Government Convention for the next four years will bring much to women and that we have the opportunity to actually improve the situation of women in many areas. My goal is not to be ashamed, but to look at exactly where the problems of women lie, and to make sure that we are able to live what they want – a self-determined, independent life – so that this is possible. That is why we are going to be significantly improving the situation of women over the next four years, that we are expanding their chances of giving more freedom of choice so that they can lead this self-determined and independent life as well. On the criticism, Mrs Glawischnig, as regards the Women's Policy Chapter in the Government Convention: It is important for me to note here that it must be a woman's misunderstanding on your part if you reduce women's policy to the women's chapter. It is very important to me to always understand women's policy as a cross-sectional matter. Women's policy is financial policy, women's policy is social policy, women's policy is justice, women's policy is education policy. I would therefore ask you to see the women's policy aspects as a whole and therefore really to study the whole of the Government Convention as far as women's policy measures are concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But in the analysis of the situation of many women we meet in a few points. As regards the question of male and female income shears, it is true that in the EU comparison in Austria, incomes are above average high. [[Abg. Steibl: Where does the social partners stay? The union...!]] Because I also saw this analysis and because we also agreed to this together in the Government Agreement, we have very concrete measures – not “an action plan and nothing else”! We have very concrete measures in the Government Convention, which will contribute to the fact that income shears between men and women are no longer further apart. [[New call for tender Steibl]] An example if we take as income also the income of pensioners: With 1. February we managed to raise 150 000 women with a pension above the poverty threshold with 726 € minimum pension! This is a very concrete measure and one of the first ones that we have immediately started, because it is a very important measure to combat poverty in women. [[Abg. Oillinger: That was not a measure of this government!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In order not to remain superficial, a second concrete measure will also be adopted: We have agreed with the social partners that there must be a general collective agreement with a minimum wage of €1,000, and there are also first successes. The doctor's chamber has already completed this. That is, doctors who in the past have had references to a collective contract that is still below €1,000 will make a leap forward in the future. This will contribute to the conclusion of income shears between men and women, because we have implemented a general collective agreement with a minimum wage of €1 000. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The central point is the fight against poverty. This is why I am particularly concerned because poverty is female. I am therefore very pleased that initiatives on the introduction of the minimum security of demand were immediately launched in the Ministry of Social Affairs, because this is a very crucial instrument and a springboard to get back into employment. The best means of combating poverty is, of course, employment and combating unemployment. The need-oriented minimum security is at the heart of our political action and we see employment as a prerequisite for an independent and independent life. I am not only concerned with the distribution of income, but also with the distribution of working time of your opinion. Of course, there are not full-time equivalent income differences everywhere, and of course part of the disparity between incomes is due to the fact that we are pushing more of full-time employment in part-time employment, although in many areas involuntarily. In many areas, such as trade and services, women who are older are part-time employed, and this is not about the compatibility of work and family, but in many areas women do not find full-time employment. Moreover, in many aspects it is still cheaper for employers to have part-time workers economically. In this respect, we have agreed to a clear measure: It cannot be that in the case of part-time employment, additional services are paid at the same time, but there must also be a supplement as in full-time employment. I believe that this is also a very concrete measure to improve the income situation especially for women who are part-time. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The focus is on combating unemployment. For this we have acted and have always said that this will be our focus. Another focus is the increase in the female employment rate. We want to increase the female employment rate by 3 per cent during this legislative period. That's what we agreed on. Not only do I think it is essential for equal opportunities reasons that we are able to increase the female employment rate, but we know, for example, from the Wifo White Paper and from the Industrial Union, that it would be economically and economically unwise to abandon the great potential of women in working life. It is very important to me that this is not only about the quantity of work, but also about the quality, that is, it must be possible full-time work with an income from which woman can really live in the future. Mrs Glavischnig, you have said that the aim was to provide additional resources for women's promotion in the labour market. – I see it that way, and that’s why we did it: We have agreed that €200 million will need to be added to active labour market promotion, of which €100 million will be invested in this particularly important area, namely for women on the labour market and re-enters in the profession. It is precisely about providing women with more quality, including with regard to the provision of labour market resources. In particular, it is about defining women's qualitative objectives more closely and ensuring that higher-quality skills measures ultimately lead to sustainable long-term employment. We will also facilitate and make education more attractive. The causes that there are still differences in income between men and women are far lower and start very early. The Minister for Women's Social Democratics Johanna Dohnal knew this early on and started the “daughters can do more” action in order to encourage young women to take on other possibilities of professional choice and vocational training, and I think we have to do that again now quite ambitiously! Unfortunately, half of the working girls and young women are still employed in only three services sectors, namely trade, health and social and gastronomy, but we have a deficit in the field of crafts and technology. In the economy there is a need for workers in technical and craft trades, and I believe that it is very important to re-run these initiatives and to make a massive effort to encourage girls and young women to make an atypical career choice. On the one hand, there must be encouragement, on the other hand very concrete measures. There must not only be working groups and action plans, but also concrete measures must be taken. We can control concrete measures with promotions. We have extended the so-called Blum funding for apprentices, which is important and correct, but I also think it is a matter of making use of it. The “Blum funding” should not run into teaching professions where young women need to return to the AMS after completion of the teaching and stand without a job, but rather the “flower promotion” should be used mainly for future-oriented teaching professions so that the girls are encouraged and supported to go into atypical teaching professions. We believe it is important not only to spend money with the casting pot, but to define our goal clearly, and our aim is to bring more girls and women into employment where they also have a future and, as I said, an income from which they can live. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The compatibility of work and family is very important to me. This is particularly crucial for me, because we know precisely from all EU comparisons that wherever there is a high female employment rate and also a high care rate, the birth rate is also high. This means that families can make it easier for children to choose when the framework conditions are right. In view of this, I believe that it is necessary for us to take measures in the area of work and family compatibility. The first measure is the flexibility of child benefit. We know that after 30 months, 97 percent of women say that they have problems getting back in. We know that half with a lower salary and lower career opportunities return to work. Therefore, we should offer that if you only purchase half that long children's money, you will get almost twice as much, namely 800 €. This may then contribute to the fact that some young father is not afraid of dedicating himself to the care of his own child for financial reasons. At €800 we have the possibility that even more men of this kind will face so important relationship work in my opinion. So we can probably win more fathers to actually take on this joint beautiful task of child rearing. The second important point regarding the compatibility of work and family is, of course, childcare. Mrs Glavischnig! I am very glad that you have put a focus here today on the development of childcare facilities. After your last interviews, I have already believed that you are more likely to benefit from tax rules that usually do not benefit women with low incomes. That is why I am very glad today that you said that we have a deficit in childcare facilities and that you will support me in actually expanding them. Especially in the case of the three-year-olds, we need to make the expansion more massive, but also in the six- to nine-year-olds, starting from full-day school models to afternoon care. I believe that this is a common concern, and we will do a joint effort with the countries to ensure that we effectively eliminate the unfortunately existing shortage of childcare facilities in the interests of the reconciliation of work and family and in the interests of families. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Finally, let me comment on a very important issue, namely violence against women. It is a major common concern of the entire federal government to fight against violence against women. The best fight against violence against women is to get women out of dependency. Women's poverty must therefore also be combated. Regardless of that, there are a number of institutions that do very good work and which deserve our increased attention. You can believe me: I understand some of the figures, and I have therefore taken great care in the budgetary negotiations to ensure that women's interests are safeguarded, especially in the fight against violence against women. I am very glad that it has succeeded in achieving an increase of over 60 percent for the intervention agencies in 2007. We will discuss this in the budgetary negotiations. Such a 60 percent increase has no other place! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The Ministry of the Interior will also take part in this increase, and we will not only have the opportunity to deal with the precarious situation of the Vienna intervention agencies in particular, but we can also finance further expansion of these important contact points especially for women and children who are victims of violence. By the way, I believe that the women's budget is very likely to change course in relation to the policies of recent years. For information again: We will increase the entire female budget by 35 percent in order to be able to carry out this important political work with the necessary financial resources. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I read you're demanding just over €7 million for the women's budget. – I have reached over €8 million! I hope that will be in line with your objective! This is €1 million more, and I am convinced that the money in this area is really well invested, because there will be much to do in terms of consulting facilities, fighting violence, service stations anyway. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said, I am really glad that we are now offering the appropriate space for this central issue in the House. I believe – and I have made this clear – that it is very concrete measures. It is not a question of getting political change out of a situation. Rather, my aim is to improve the living situation of women and to create framework conditions for women to live as they want, self-determined and independent. That is why I would like to invite all of you, finally, quite cordially, to help and implement a progressive and forward-looking women's policy in the interests of women in Austria. By the way, I invite all of you, including the male colleagues, but above all the female Members, to the women's ministry tomorrow's Open House on the occasion of the International Women's Day. Please note: 4.30 p.m., Minoritenplatz 3, Open House, International Women's Day. I look forward to our joint commitment in the interests of women and hope that we will carry it together! I invite you to make a contribution together with us over the next four years to make a significant improvement in the situation of women! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7550	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker or speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having a total speaking time of 25 minutes. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Weinzinger. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7577	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Mrs. Minister! You say you want to do advanced, forward-looking women's policy with us, and I'd be so happy to do it. My problem is just: How do I get you? You have just said here today that there is an ambitious government programme on women's policy. That's where I ask you: Do you also have a secret agreement with the ÖVP that I don't have? The government programme that I have been presenting and that I have analysed is anything but ambitious! It can only be described as tame and hesitant in terms of women's policy! The only new thing about this is that the name of the minister has changed. – And I will also like to prove my claim. You have just said that women should not be ashamed if an opposition politician or other woman-politically interested abuses are mentioned. We know that! You have always experienced this in your own body if you have been told by Minister of Smoking Callat or by her predecessors: Dear Members of the SPÖ, don't be sorry! – Do now But it's exactly the same! They're talking about "Mut-Mach." – We already know that too! They're talking about women's policy being a cross-sectional matter. - Of course she is! They have called the financial policy. Then I reply: Where, then, does the government programme find a financial policy approach to help women improve their living situation? Where did at least a minimum of gender budgeting remain? This word does not even appear in your government programme! As a minister, you knew nothing else than what your predecessor has already done, namely to write a helpless, dear letter to the Minister of Finance and say: Can't we even make gender budgeting? – This is not a process that helps women’s interests to break through! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us also look at the educational chapter. They have also referred to the field of education in connection with the concept of cross-sectional matter, and I have studied the educational chapter very thoroughly. In fact, there is half a line in it that carries a women’s policy approach, and this is: “Buben promote, strengthen girls.” – That’s it! That is all you have to offer in the educational chapter on girls' and women's policy. That's what you call ambitious, Mrs. Minister? That's from the old clothes collection. I mean, that's not really it! If you already address the social chapter, you would at least have had a corresponding handling in your own department, to name just a small example. What is it that prevents you from finally decoupling the emergency aid from the partner income? That would be a minimum for women at risk of poverty and a huge step. That wouldn't cost you much. Why don't you just do it instead of always proclaiming the cross-sectional matter? Let's go to some concrete points that you mentioned and which are not unloving: They boast that you have brought about an improvement for women in the area of pension schemes. – Don't be angry if I tell you now: It was the last government to do this! You have also just announced the increase of the AMS by 200 million. – Please don’t be angry again, but that was decided last year before the election! And the half-half rule in the AMS has been around for a long time. What is not available is what you or your party – colleague Prammer and colleague Stadlbauer – called for a year ago, namely, a federal fund outside the AMS with a donation of 100 million. Where is he? – He's not here, he's not there! I have to bring something now, because that was such a plausible demand: At the last women's day, SPÖ politicians called for: Let women come to what they belong to, half of the world! – Lady Minister Bures! My dear! You can't even get half your own club! How do you want to reach half the world for women? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] After all, our clubman won a snap bet, because you can't even reach 40 percent quotas! [[Abg. Steibl: You got it with the snap!]] I think the problem has been addressed with this: The central point of criticism is that the credibility of this government cannot be very high in women's policy concerns. What about a party which promises women in the government programme and in the speeches on women's day more leadership positions for women and a higher proportion of women in the economy, politics and social partners, if it does not even manage to enforce a higher proportion of women in its own ranks if it does not manage to anchor binding women's quotas and women's promotion plans in the public service, and if it does not succeed in actually bringing women into section management positions in public service? We are far away from half-half of that! That is why this is not very credible! Now, if the ÖVP comes and raises all these demands, then it will be arousing for me if I am just being put on a good footing. But I would like to ask you: What has prevented you from implementing all of this in recent years, in which you were practically in the single government, which is supported by you today in Sunday's speeches? Let us also come to an objective that you have set yourself in the government programme, which, by the way, is not just a matter of action. . It is funny when a chapter is called ‘female policy measures’ if what does not stand in it are measures. What is in it is general, non-binding objectives, not concrete budgetary approaches, and certainly not concrete measures. And not even in these non-binding declarations of intent, you will be able to include reality! If your chapter title is “Continued closure of income shears”, while the Court of Auditors submits that the income shears have changed significantly over the last six or seven years, then you live in a reality other than Austrian women. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let us look at the measures listed there. What's new about that? “Supporting girls in the (atypical) career choice”? – Since in recent years you have just returned all the consulting projects, successful EQUAL projects or similar things, and you do not provide any money to increase that somehow, I wonder what will really come from them. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: How do you want to know?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: HTL schools bring women...!]] Why Make You don't really even have nails with heads? It's not that hard. There are international examples; there are ideas that you can take over. What prevents you from determining: If you want to have economic promotion in Austria and have a certain size of business, you will have to meet – among many other criteria, which such a company must meet anyway, in order to be a promoter or promoter – also Gender Mainstreaming – that is, operational equality targets!Unknown term type: "%s".? You might just say: Income justice is important to us, the proportion of women in each hour is important to us, the proportion of women in leadership positions is important. – It hardly costs you money. You just have to work out a model and put it into practice. It would be feasible at any time, and it would be a concrete measure. What is it that prevents you from doing so, Mrs Minister, Mr Bundeskanzler, ladies and gentlemen? They do the following, Mrs Minister – and I do not understand this at the best –: Before you think about it and negotiate with economic operators and companies about what could be done in women's political terms, you say in the start-up interviews – properly – don't worry, you don't think any legal obligations, there will be no binding rules, everything should happen voluntarily. – As voluntary as the proportion of women in the parliamentary clubs is increasing! Why do it? You do? Why do you give up the opportunities you have free of charge when you take office – to the detriment of the women in Austria? I could now – unfortunately, this does not allow me to speak – bring many more examples from your own speech and from the government programme, which proves that, unfortunately, Mrs Exminister Rauch-Kallat is right: [[Abg. Steibl: Thank God!]] There's no change of course. The “change of course” is the continuation of the black and blue women’s policy. In other words: Nor will it be better if, on the women's day, you spread a few terms like the quota if you do not face that reality. They pursue a women's policy in the cross-section – across the entire government programme – which is tame, hesitant and drowsy. And the women in Austria have not deserved that!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7698	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. Desirable time: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e7719	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs Frauenminister! Mrs. State Secretary! Why are you doing this, Mrs Weinzinger, Mrs Glawischnig? – The credibility of the Greens in the matter of women’s policy is increasingly frustrated with every speaker. Why Come You're not in the boat with us? [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Why doesn't what happened before apply to you now? The way we started together has now been cut off from you, but not from us! Be You're a little more credible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Sburny: You've been bent down for a long time!]] Ladies and gentlemen! – The colleagues from the ÖVP are – I don’t know – perhaps drinking a beer. I think you might also be more interested in women's policy. We are well represented, ladies and gentlemen. I am pleased that women's policy is at the centre today. That you put this on the tapet is good, a day before the International Women's Day. I thank you for that. There is the possibility in the debate on a urgent request to discuss the topics that are at our heart and which we will finally implement – the excitement is noticeable – at last. [[Abg. Brosz: The presence... more than the female rate!]] As tomorrow is International Women's Day, Mr Brosz: Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer takes this very seriously. This morning, the opening of an exhibition on “violence in the family”, violence against women and children, which I unfortunately missed colleagues from the Greens, colleagues from the EIA and colleagues from the other parliamentary groups. [[Abg. Brosz: What time?]] [[Abg. May. Worm: 9:00!]] There were only Social Democratic Members there – and of course the Minister of the Interior, who, fortunately, also increased the budget for the intervention agencies. That was probably the minimum he could have done. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So many activities around this women's day make this upsurge in women's policy feel as well. For example, today I have a sticker from colleague Bayr. You all got a letter today: FGM has become a topic. There is an international day called by the UN against genital mutilation. We can all help with the purchase of this button that will focus on genital mutilation first and reduce second. These are also contributions to the International Women's Day, where I would like to thank my colleague Bayr, but also all other colleagues – especially colleagues inside – who will be taking part tomorrow, for example at the Speakers' Corner in Parliament. There will be a big event tomorrow in Parliament on the women's day. Mrs Glawischnig: And forever, the Murmeltier greets – or as the movie is called. I don't know him; I can only remind you: 430 applications for tomorrow really do not show any interest in women's policies. They'll be there tomorrow, and we'll take care of a good event tomorrow! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But you do not seem to be interested in the excitement, because this urgent request, Mr Weinzinger from the Greens, is really not in the uproar, both in terms of content and in terms of scope. After all, it's the 56th. Day after this government's fishing, so we haven't even reached the 100 days where you could say, you can already find first measurable things. We have not yet decided on a budget, with the Federal Minister – provided that we have already decided in Parliament – that the budget will look more than good in terms of women. They will reduce all the measures which have already been implemented very clearly in women's policy, and which I will then address, to seven points. – These are important points, clearly, because I am with you, but in part these things are much more concrete in the government agreement! [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger:... these seven points, then I am fully satisfied!]] . I'll refer to you in a moment, colleague Weinzinger. They are much more concrete than in your application, and in part they are already done. Mr Stadlbauer will address this anyway. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then you didn't read the convention! Then there's a second paper!]] So the time is completely wrong, and I'll tell you the following – that hurts You, of course: In my opinion, demand and implementation belong together – of course also for this Federal Government. It's not always easy. This isn't always easy with the coalition partner, it's not always easy for you, but to demand without implementing it, it's easy – and that's what you do permanently! The only country where you bear responsibility is Upper Austria, where you are involved in the government. Can you call me a women's policy measure in the country of Upper Austria, which bears the green handwriting? [[Abg. Sburny: Yes! A gender budget!]] I have been searching the Internet today and have – unfortunately! - no one found. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The only women who move in Upper Austria are the Social Democrats, because women's work foundations are based on our initiative, and not on the initiative of the Greens at all. And I am particularly sorry that you are bringing in this limited view of things today, a day before the women's day, where we could all be happy that we have a woman's minister who will give way, ladies and gentlemen! This Convention contains as many women's and equality policies as never before. Finally, we are all – you and all of us – measured how successful our work is for women in this country, and not what may be lacking from your point of view. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't surf the Internet, you have to go to the villages!]] [[Call the Greens:Punish!]] I would like to focus very briefly on individual chapters, because I believe that the Minister for Women did not have the time to mention everything in which women's policy is contained, Mr Oellinger, because in 20 minutes this is not going to happen. On these 167 pages... – That is neither embarrassing nor anything else, that is the truth, it has never existed, and it hurts you. [[Abg. Sburny: That's embarrassing what you give of yourself!]] You didn't even get it to the government. – You mentioned today that you would like to go there. If you were in the government, you could put it into practice. Unfortunately, you did not do it in Upper Austria. [[Abg. Sburny: You didn't read the program! You don't even know what's in your program!]] If you extend the "Blum-Bonus", you need to look at it very critically, no question. But that this confession exists that girl promotion is attributed, that is not something that is just on paper, but that is something that will also be implemented. It is also very important that the many free employees – with small “i” – are now almost only women who work in this field – will also be insured under social law; that is, full insurance benefits if they enter the employee’s pension scheme are the same as for real employees. – This is also a milestone for women to improve. The labour market service has been mentioned: 100 million additional for women! And what's important about it is: These are qualitative objectives that will be introduced. Not only are the quantitative goals – a course, and one more, and one more – important, but it is important how many women return to work. If you had read it exactly, you would know it and would not speak so foolishly in two speeches. - I'm already excited about what's still coming from you inconcretely. Chapter Health, Chapter Justice, Chapter State Reform: There is a women's policy manuscript everywhere. And I can only tell you: To laugh, I do not think that a ceiling is set for chronic diseases and that people have to pay only to a certain extent for prescription fees, because this is especially true of women who have low pensions – fortunately, the minimum pension has now been raised by us – with the few money they have not been able to do well. [[Abg. Oellinger: I can tell you something!]] Minimum security, minimum wage – always criticised by you: Mr Oellinger, we have it, it will come! It was not implemented, and we belong to three states in Europe who are introducing it at this level. – You have to think about it, too, that this is not a small thing. The fact that we have managed a lot in pensions – 150 000 women will benefit from it – is that, please, not to reject it. Women in science, career opportunities increase: We will set an initiative – women in science. We will address programmes for improvement. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: This is “all” concrete!]] Let us be glad that not everything in this government agreement is so precisely formulated, because now we have the opportunity, and I invite you to help us implement these things as well. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens]] Where are the constructive proposals? – These are seven points, which are generally formulated, partly done, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. May. Brigid Weinzinger: Our request!]] So, if you don't think so anymore, you really failed women's and equality politics today. I'm just telling you: The time of the brakes fractions has long passed, and in this urgent request you have not been able to include what our women's minister has been saying. - That's why we don't support him.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8020	Next, Mrs Mag. Aubauer. Desirable time: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8042	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Thank you for the attention. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: I'm here at least!]] Discussing women's policy is important – not only on the International Women's Day. It is also important and very welcome to submit criticism. But it's even more important to work for women. – And we want to do that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Much has happened in recent years. – Yes, the situation of women has improved in almost all areas. Facts – Example labour market: At the end of February, there were 6 200 unemployed women less than in February of the previous year. – A minus of 5.8 percent – a success! We have record employment in women: At present, more than 1.5 million women are in employment. – This is more than ever before – a success! The child care allowance amounting to €436 a month – which strengthens family income – the increase in the amount of earnings, the increase in the basis of the calculation for the pension, the facilitation of re-entry into the job and much more – successes of the government Wolfgang Schüssel and the women's minister Maria Rauch-Kallat. But it is also important to say very clearly: We haven't reached the end of the road yet. – Although women have the same rights, in practice they do not have the same opportunities in many areas. I appreciate your high level of commitment, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, Mrs Weinzinger, but your criticism that there is little concrete action in the Government Convention, I cannot understand at all, because, like a black and red thread, measures for women go through the entire government programme – through the working world, education and family. Where do we want to put? – For example: They've all talked about income shears. – Yes: Women earn less than men – unfortunately! However, this also has its reason for many part-time jobs, in less paid part-time areas. So, where's our impact? – We want part-time because it is asked, but please in higher qualified areas, not only in these cheap jobs. Secondly, education: It's nice that more than half of the university graduates are female. – This is a success. But let's look at it more closely: Do these academies reach the leadership sets, the top jobs with the good salaries? - Rare. Why? – What do many women study? – They are especially profiled where there will not be those top-gaps. They mainly study humanities. – There are more than 70 percent of students women. That's where it's important to create consciousness. The initiative “Women in Technology” has already been successful. Thirdly, on a key issue of policy: Family and profession, how's that going? - It has to go! We want a child and a career. The ÖVP has made decisive choices in this regard. Children and career, that must be possible. I see this very positively. Yes, but how can this work better in practice? – I reject a model: For me, the term “mother’s content” is already the unword of the year. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Yes, but this is from the pomp, the word!]] Why? – Because the term “mother’s content” leaves fathers completely out of childcare. I am particularly concerned that the care of the children between husband and wife is shared in partnership. – Children need not only mothers, but also fathers. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Cheaply they do it! How high is a mother's content?]] A good way to do this is through the government programme: Children's money is supposed to be more flexible. The parents should be able to choose between two variants – you know: either 36 months 436 € or 18 months 800 €, divided. The proposal by Minister for the Environment Josef Pröll is also interesting. – It is a kind of minimum security for families, but also there – and this is particularly important – it is about a partnership solution. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] So, what do we need? – We need practical childcare facilities, tax deductibility of childcare and – very important! – a partner care model. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: No! The men don't care about so little money!]] I am confident that we will succeed in further improvements for women. I would like to get you all in the boat and ask you to join us – women and men. In any case, we will be involved with passion and enthusiasm. And a sentence to Mrs Weinzinger, because she referred to the number of Members: It is not always about quantity, it is about quality, competence, passion and enthusiasm. - And we have it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8173	Mrs Rosenkranz's next speech. 10 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8195	Madam President. Mrs Frauenminister! Mrs. State Secretary! High house! In principle, the women's cause – because it is the women's cause – is too important to leave it ideological dogmas. At least this is about the reality of life of more than half the population. In addition, the position of women in a society also expresses much about society itself – and not only about the current state of society, how free it is, how much it is on various ways, on different Please consider, but also how their future will be. It is therefore a free credo to create equal participation in all areas of society, equal opportunities and fair opportunities. Women are above all citizens, and we have a great interest as citizens in the equal position in society that we call for, society itself remains strong and has a future. At least that's what interests us. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] This also leads us to be quite clear – and I am saying this again and again – that we are dissociating ourselves from feminist equality policies. First of all, it is a contradiction: Righteousness means I have to leave the result open. Should it prove that it – nothing bad has happened at all; Exceptions confirm the rule – there are emphasis on talent, then I must accept that there may be more male technicians and more female journalists, otherwise I do not allow equal opportunities, but rather do a policy of equality contrary to the free development of personality. And why should I make a middle-class technician from a potential Star Journalist? In this we see no positive effect in the sense of women at all. Especially if we consider equality policy and gender mainstreaming, to which we are also Brussels, so - there is a good formulation, which really is polemic superfluous - I have to say, when people hear this, then you can make a real picture that brings it to the point. There was an event at the University of Graz on gender research in economics. It was entitled ‘Equality, law, quota, equality policy’. There was a quote as a title, a quote from Norwegian family minister Laila Dåvøy, who said: “There will only be equality” when “incompetent women are sitting in the boards.” And that's not exactly it! That is exactly what we do not have in mind. That's exactly what we don't want. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want equality and equal opportunities. I mention because there are so few male speakers on the list of speakers, as follows: In the meantime, the boys have serious disadvantages, the boys are regarded as the socially less adapted ones – that is, at least all development psychologists. Also, I could occasionally make the observation that girls are usually socially adapted rather than boys of certain age. I just know that boys in school have enormous difficulties and that the school is now a great difficulty for what is called a “living, wild boy”. There are fewer diplomas at the Matura. This is also a problem that needs to be considered, especially in the case of young men. They are a big problem for society – also female young people, but male young people are more affected. So: a heart also for boys and young men! I may have deposited this from my experience as a mother. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want equality and equal opportunities. The second point is: Where, due to the important task they fulfil for society, women are affected by this task and are concerned about it – of course, about birth, and if they want to, even longer – they should not suffer any disadvantages from it. Now it's different. This is not so much a concern of the female feminists that I should be able to bring to the attention of the core sentence of feminism. The “grandmother” forbids saying: the author of feminism, Simone de Beauvoir, has said that quite clearly and thus also expressed the dilemma. She says: The woman is the slave of motherhood. – We don't see it like this: We say motherhood is a privilege of women. In principle, therefore, where women have special realities of life, where their biography differs from that of men, the woman must not grow up a disadvantage. Firstly, of course, this applies to the family phase. It can't be that if someone, by the way, a father, decides to stay away from the profession for a time – and be it for several years – for child rearing, which is a big problem. There must be freedom of choice. And freedom of choice means choosing freedom: I give up a professional income and stay at home, or I don't, give my child to an out-of-home care, without economic constraints. – And they exist. Everyone knows. Anyone can calculate it. It is hardly possible – and this limits the freedom of choice to the outside – to receive a family with two or three children with a salary. Rather, there is an obligation to separate from the children as early as possible. If They study and ask how parents would decide to do it without compulsion, then something different comes out of what is always postulated here as an exemplary biography. On the question of this study by the Academy of Sciences: What kind of professional activity would you prefer if you could decide without economic pressure as long as your child is not yet in school?, only 9 percent of women say they would like to be fully employed. By the way, the men's response is hardly different. Only 9 percent would like to be fully employed. 49 percent would like to have a part-time job and at least 42 percent would like to stay at home until their child's schooling. – Even if you are annoyed, you need to take note of this. Why don't we make that possible? Secondly, by the way, it would not be a harm if we were to put the child's well-being a little more at the centre of the debate. In these debates, the child is always considered merely as a career or employment obstacle. It can't be. The question of childcare has of course not only to focus on the question of how quickly someone returns to the profession – that can also be solved differently, that is another debate – but also the question of childcare has to be central to the child's good. And that is really to be taken into account! [[Accompaniment with the FPÖ and the Abg. Ursula Haubner.]] Third point. In the family phase, it is not only the parent who is at home, but the families as a whole. There is relative poverty. That was also said by a bishop, but he was perfectly right. In Austria, children are the safest way to poverty. - It's like this: If you – very banal – divide income into multiple heads, it will become less and less. That is to say, the free demand for taxation, which takes into account the number of heads who have to live on income, which is not a family promotion, but a fair form of taxation and, in fact, a reduction in existing discrimination. We therefore call for a tax which takes account of the number of heads, the so-called family split. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Next point: Of course, women will also be in trouble when they get back to work. That's right. But the fact that you're saying that you don't stay at home with your children at all, because then it's going to be kind of complicated, isn't the only solution. How about taking care of it? would make the re-entry more reasonable? Women now have a life expectancy of 80 years. Could we perhaps think that we are putting the phases of life, just as it is most useful in biological terms? – Not in the time when, for biological reasons, one gets the children to be fully involved in the world of work and then, when the children are out of the tombs, to be too old, unfortunately now it is no longer possible. It must bring together a modern society! You are always to have control effects. How would it be if you were to think about it, if you had the same qualification, would the same person win the job that returns because he had raised children for a few years before? That would be a solution. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Furthermore: the pension. It is actually a scandal that the very ones, namely the mothers of children who ensure that the pensions of all are secured, individually suffer damage in their pension. That must be abolished. It's got to change. The education of children must be a far greater factor in the pension than it is now. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] That's probably what my controversies are going to criticize, and I'm going to do this, so to speak, preventively: Awareness goes hand in hand for us women's policy and family policy. It's very conscious that's what we're going to see together. We also want to make it quite clear that the contrast between self-confident feminism and motherhood not only destroys women but threatens society as a whole. A society that does not overcome this contradiction that has been built here has an expiry date. It exists simply and simply a generation and is replaced by a society that does not have this problem. We are working on the future of our society, so we are also working on a reasonable women's and family policy and on overcoming this contrast.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8334	Next come Mrs Haubner. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8355	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The International Women's Day is an annual day when it is necessary to take stock of what has happened in recent months, and what is perhaps even more important to think about the future and how the future will be designed accordingly. Allow me to say the following: This government cannot take stock of it, because what we have as an opposition as an official government program is one that does not have any successful handwriting. There are general places, it is unintelligible and there are very many phrases that are written here. We can only judge what is here. Madam Minister, if you have said in your reply what has already happened or what is to happen, then this is beautiful and welcome, but here in Parliament we do not yet know anything about it. What needs to be decided by law, of course, this must also be done here by Parliament. For me, this women's programme shows that, like everything else, much was promised and subsequently broken before the election. I remember that it has always been called by the SPÖ when we are in the government, then there is again a kindergarten billion. With this request, as a former family minister, I was also confronted again and again, and I was accused of why we do not introduce kindergarten billions. I don't know, maybe this kindergarten billion is hidden in the double budget, we haven't heard anything today. Or that there should be, for example, an income-dependent child's allowance. Personally, I am very happy that there is no income-dependent child money, because that would completely distort the performance for which it is actually intended. Here are two examples: Something was promised and not kept, and there are only general places. What is concrete from my point of view – and you allow it to be seen a little subjective of course – is that what is being carried on from the former government is concrete. For example, it is concrete that the mentoring programme will continue and be extended to include the development of women's advisory and family advisory services. You have already mentioned the child allowance, the strengthening of parental education. These are all important measures that have been taken in recent years and are being continued. You can start something, you know where it's going. That is why I say, of course, it is also important for us from the BZÖ, which has happened for women in recent years. You already have to accept that a lot has happened for women in the area of pensions. For the first time, we have improved child training times and also care periods so that family work is equivalent to work. This, of course, benefits women – but not the generation that is now in retirement, because they have neglected you, but those who can retire in ten and 20 years. We have managed that women will only have to be active for more than seven years in the future and can fill up the rest with family work for 15 years. This is a great achievement and achievement and improvement for women, which cannot be turned under the carpet. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] Or: because you say the compensation allowance for women has been increased by this government to €724. – Very nice, we were there and I was also allowed to bring it in with my support during the legislative period when I was a minister. But I would like to say – because the former Minister of Women Herbert Haupt was quoted today – that: Herbert Haupt was the first to raise this compensation allowance by extra-touring the family code because he knew how important it is for women of old age to have a pension from which they can live. So let's leave the church in the village! But I am delighted, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, that I have now really admired you here with which Elan you have slipped into this new role of government responsibility. And I see you learned quickly. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, tax relief in the last government especially for single-earners, the anti-talking law, a law that allows us to take legal action against mental violence for the first time, or the establishment of the family alliance, on a voluntary basis, but together with economics and science, must be mentioned. That's why I'm saying: Much has happened, but of course there is still much to do, that is no question at all. We from BZÖ are everywhere where we can support what women really need and want. Here we are also reliable partners – no matter what government it is. What do women above all want? – Women want free choice for their life model, and here policy does not require whether a woman has children or does not have children, whether a woman wants to live in any community, whether she is at home and only cares for her children, whether she is active or whether she is both agreed. Women, in particular – and this has already been mentioned several times today – want support in dealing with them so that they can also agree on work and family. That's where the state needs it, it needs politics, but it also needs its own partners, and there the economy needs it. Therefore, we from the BZÖ are also co-computers for this when it comes to family and household tasks being a matter of parents, that it is not exclusively a matter of women and mothers, and that fathers are more and more able to perceive this opportunity. I also miss the increased participation of fathers in the programme, which is planned here, because this alone cannot be done by flexibilising the childcare allowance, that you say that more fathers will take care of it. So, I miss the strengthening of Father's participation. I can remember that in the last legislative period the big hit of the SPÖ was the mandatory father-month; it no longer seems. We are co-contributors and supporters, when it comes to expanding family benefits, but not to child care, where women, mothers and fathers are made aware, you go into the karenz period shorter, you take a shorter time for childcare and get the double, because that is not true. Those who go short in Karenz get less money. That should also be aware of them. We are also involved in tax relief for families, especially children's costs. Here I see, very gratifyingly, on the part of the ÖVP, that there is already movement, which we have not done in the last legislative period. [[Abg. Steibl: We have been demanding tax deductibility for years!]] – But nothing happened, my colleague Steibl. That's why I'm saying: Implementation is important and not just demands. What is especially important is that care periods are counted on as child rearing times and not, as Mr Sozialminister suggests in his draft assessment, only from the point of view of care level 5. That would be unfair. We are also involved in the development of childcare services – enlargement in the sense that we are not constantly committed to numbers, 50 000, 80 000, 100 000, but that we take into account the experience of the past – and here there are various studies – that we ask: Where are regional needs? Where is something needed? Child care services must be close to work, flexible and above all child-friendly. I also miss the financial resources, as in the last legislative period, at least for innovative childcare projects. Ladies and gentlemen, equal opportunities for women are a major challenge in the labour market. There, I think, one has to start first – starting in the sense that thousands of women continue to work in areas where they have very low wages. Here I expect the social partners and the trade union to fulfil their tasks accordingly, so that they can negotiate a minimum wage on a collective basis. I would just like to know the following, Mrs Minister: If it always says, minimum wage of € 1,000 – are that € 1,000 gross or € 1,000 net? Because if it is 1 000 € gross, then we are again below 1 000 € and then it is a relatively low income. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's also important, especially with this woman-typical...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8403	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over. I'll let you talk half a sentence, but more is not allowed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8418	It is important that, especially in the case of women's typical working conditions, there should be consideration of the need to pay these time-limits accordingly, because this is also a major disadvantage for women. As I said, we from the BZÖ...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8443	Ladies and gentlemen, your speaking time is over! [[In the case of BZÖ for the Abg, leaving the speaker's desk. Ursula Haubner.]] The next item is the speech by Mrs Zwerschitz. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8476	Mrs. Minister! High house! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, I can offer you a short trip to the Upper Austrian government policy, where the Greens are known to rule. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Without legal claim this childcare, that is...!]] With the Black and Green Government in Upper Austria... – If you would please let me speak, I have heard your impulsive report too! In Upper Austria there is a new kindergarten law – opening for children under the second year of life, i.e. women have a chance to accommodate their children if they want to or need to go to work earlier. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: The legal claim...!]] There is also a doubling of intervention agencies against violence against women in Upper Austria. A regionalization concept has so far failed to achieve federal policy. Two thirds of the budget work according to Gender Budgeting – that you do not know, I find it particularly surprising that I have found an invitation from you in my mail distributor, where you present this gender budgeting principle, which the green Members Ruperta Lichtenecker have worked with and which is exemplary throughout Europe. [[New call of the abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] So you should actually know that the greens are further, much further! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Of course, I can imagine that you have quite great frustration. They're known as women's politicians, people know that. But women's policy also costs money, you know, and that's not what's happening right now. The government programme has some very high goals, but there is no budgetary coverage! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: 8 million!]] We do not know at all how we will finance all these beautiful soap bubbles. 8 million € are beautiful, but I want to see it first! [[Abg. Stadlbauer: That's the problem because you haven't seen it yet!]] Until now, we only know promises, reports on what is going to happen, and as everywhere in the government programme: Evaluation of needs, statistics rolling, working groups et cetera. Of course, it hurts crazy when you sit in the government and obviously don't prevail with your own people. I can imagine that would hurt me too. There's no wonder you're having such an emotional discussion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] To blame us for not participating in your women's policy, just because you changed the side, I really think that's a strong piece! After all, we are still those who ask for something that wants something that knows that it is not enough to distribute any transparency, to make rallys in front of Parliament, beautiful photos for the 8. March to shoot. We are in opposition, it is our role to make demands, it is our role to make requests. Their role in the government is to do something, invest something and change something! Until now, I don't have the kind of impression that you've been thinking about how that could actually go. It will not be enough to enroll in a government programme: We want more childcare places! when we know that this contributes to the financial burden on the communities. There the covenant itself will have to take money into its own hands, otherwise nothing will happen! [[Abg. Steibl: The communities want to visit the next...!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's the country thing!]] Do you really want your own women's minister to say to the heads of state and to the mayors: Please, please, could you not perhaps make a babysitting facility, because we would need them, but we have no money from the league, because we prefer to buy some airplanes or some stuff instead?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Steibl: What is it about? It is about the inhabitants per municipality!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But that's a bad statement!]] I already know that ÖVP is so imaginative about how great the last government would not have worked for the mothers. - Wonderful! I also know enough mothers who after two and a half years would like to have a job that you unfortunately do not have anymore, because we do have the money for children, but we do not have the right to return to work. If they have found work then, mostly only part-time work – therefore it is always so nice when you say how great the employment rate of women has grown; calculate this once in full-time equivalents: Sad in the European comparison, that is all I can say! –, they're looking for a babysitting place. Look for a babysitting place that opens at a time that, after you have brought the child, you can go to work, which at a time closes that after work you can pick up the child without a hectic tongue, a babysitting place where the rate of caretaker to child is such that it can really be an educational establishment, a childsitting place that is qualitatively equipped so that the children have all the possibilities! – But we have a great recipe: The Muttis are supposed to stay at home. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Steibl.]] We had once had politicians who claimed that you only need to marry richly, then you would have been cared for anyway. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I would say that on the occasion of today's divorce rate – well, wonderful, beyond the last century, because then women already paid. [[New call of the abg. Steibl.]] I know it's incredibly difficult to hear a different opinion once. They seem to be being mad at it. I'm sorry I'm so outrageous about you. [[Abg. Steibl: I'm sorry, as much stupid as you're telling me, that's hair-threwing! That's a joke!]] If that's hardy, talk to mothers who desperately try to be mother and work at the same time. Speaking of Hort family, the wonderful life in the family: Probably because of this, the violence rate in the family is so high, because children there surely have the very best care option. [[Abg. Steibl: Sorry, do you have a family?]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Steibl: This is a insult to the family! That's a joke!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Finally, another sentence: As an opposition, we have the opportunity to control and demand the possibility and the obligation to control. [[Abg. Steibl: Don't you know what family means?]] I now demand from the government that they finally do something outside air bubbles.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8749	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes welcome. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8791	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Zwerschitz, after your speech we will return to the ground, and we will return to the facts. I would not like to highlight the above Austrian kindergarten law, which you have referred to, as a green example, because it does not correspond to the programmatics that you represent and which I think is very sympathetic in many respects at all, Mrs Colleague. This oberösterreichische Kindergartengesetz is a pure fixation of the status quo – you probably know that very well. It is not in the least about an expansion of childcare places in Upper Austria. The funding has not been extended in Upper Austria by this law for these childcare facilities. [[Abg. Brosz: How many children have to be offered?]] And that is exactly the mechanism, the They have just described, with the increasing burden on the communities, what happens through this law in Upper Austria is because the country does not provide any additional resources. [[Abg. Brosz: Do you know how many children there must be in Upper Austria?]] Whatever you did not specify what SPÖ Landesrat Ackerl wanted very much and what he made a great effort to do was a legal claim to a childcare place – nor does this law contain. [[Abg. Brosz: You have rejected this in Parliament! Can you remember that?]] . I am replying to the colleague who put this law as an example, Mr Brosz. [[Abg. Brosz: You have rejected it in Parliament!]] Which is also very unfortunate: It is true that the contributions to this law have been phased down, but it does not go down to zero, which is also a disseminating serious beauty error of this law, which is by far not in line with your green notions, Mrs Colleague. But on the subject of childcare, which was a central issue in the debate before the Greens' request, in the debate over the last few weeks and, as I believe, in the run-up to the women's day: Childcare is very important to discuss in the context of a better compatibility between work and family, but also in the context of better opportunities for children. It is good and important for this to happen in this way. Today we have heard the word “mother money” again, we have heard “estimation of family benefits” – for example, of Federal Minister Pröll, of the chairman of the perspective commission of the ÖVP, who, while speaking formally of appreciation for mothers and fathers or family work, but in the clear text, this means nothing but appreciation of family work towards those mothers who stay at home with the children, and no appreciation for those mothers who go to work, earn an existing existence, contribute to the family welfare material and immaterial, and care for the children under much more difficult conditions. And you work together again – Church, conservative forces in Austria – to make women a bad conscience to play against each other professional and non-working: Only the non-working woman is the good mother. But I also tell you about this point – please send it to Mr Pröll. –: Also the working mothers are good mothers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And working parents also do educational work under very difficult conditions. The UNICEF study on the welfare of children in the various industrialized countries recently published: We're 21. Place of 21 states, and once again the Scandinavian states are in the leading field, where childcare, where early child support, where all day schools have an important role to play. And, of course, the government programme, as well as the results of the recent government clature, is concerned with the development of childcare facilities. I think what we urgently need is actually that we make the funds available with united forces. We don't need the 70th demand survey. I think the facts have been on the table for many, many years. [[Abg. Broukal: Even the industrial union already knows!]] The 50 000 childcare centres currently under discussion are urgently needed. This is confirmed by all studies – international, Austrian! That is, my appeal also to the members of the ÖVP, the government partner: There has also been much more contemporary news from your side than recently from Minister Pröll. Let's get together and see that we'll be working out an implementation plan soon!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8893	The next item is Mrs Riener. Requested time: Seven minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8914	Madam President, Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! Mrs Glawischnig is not currently in plenary. “And daily the Murmeltier greets”, I know the film. It is a constant improvement there, and ultimately it has a very good end, because everything is running perfectly. - Just so much about this movie. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I'm a little disappointed about the bet that was closed. I would have expected the Greens not to make a snap bet, if they really take the issue seriously, but perhaps take a promotion for a women's advisory body as a bet. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] But if I read the urgent request of the Greens, I ask myself the question: Did the Greens actually cooperate in the government programme? – Actually, everything sounds very, very similar. What exactly is contained in the government programme, which the EIA has already implemented in its government responsibility in recent years, my colleague Gertrude Aubauer has already informed you in detail, and I do not want to go into it any more. Many ambitious objectives are included in the government programme. I would like to take out two areas that are very important to me. A part is from the work world and another part is about child care – as you know, that's a big concern for me. As a trade unionist and a staff representative, I talk to many women who work in the work and tell me about their needs that they have there. For example, I miss the “climate protection” in the Greens. It's about the operating climate. Especially women suffer very much if the operating climate is not right. Unfortunately, I have to deal with mobbing situations, burn-out, to support women there too. Of course, this also applies to men, but priority is given to women. Above all, women also deal differently, they take a lot of things very, very to heart. We will not get tired of the ÖAAB to continue this path, too, in this area of “operating climate”. I would also like to bring you closer. I've seen a little on the Internet what women tell each other in women's forums what problems they have. And I would like to read an example to you: Of course, we women can do everything: Be nice, be smart, great at work, great in bed, supermama, wife and organizer. We can cook, bake, comfort, bastle, housework, decorate. We are sensitive, understanding, patient, giving comfort, are top fit, well-informed, excellent hostesses and always well cheered. Everything no problem for the woman today, just: Whether we can and want all of this at the same time is the question. The modern woman's miracle – may it be? But whether we're part of it? We are trying to meet the highest requirements and do not do so. Society expects much from us, and we expect more of ourselves. Already in school, the girls are the braver and more strenuous students – we have already heard today! – we complete our training, fulfill our job with commitment and have to watch as we carry out our birth function in a relatively narrow time window. It is not so easy to find the right partner at the right time. Problemsless child warfare is not granted to everyone, and to fulfil our duty during pregnancy and after that again in the job is not feasible for everyone. It doesn't always work that way according to plan. Life paths run individually, and not everyone has the same possibilities and abilities, not everyone gets perfect children without problems. Not everyone finds the ideal partner. Not every profession throws enough money off and not everyone can do everything at the same time. Perhaps you should think that even with the all-canners something remains on the track and that in life everything has its time. If we and society accept this, our world may become a little more fear-free, joyful and tolerant. - Quote. - Something to think about. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] However, I do not want to keep you in mind that a big event took place in Graz. I'd call it: “What moves women,” in fact, the event called “equal opportunities for women”. 400 women were present, and speakers were Christa Meves and Eva Herman. And you can imagine vividly how the discussion happened, how polarizing this event was finally, how these statements of the two speakers polarized. [[Abg. Ollinger: That must not be true! There's nothing more polarizing!]] It is important to me that we address the needs of women throughout their range. Finally, it is also our duty as politicians to respond: Whether that means child care – I would call it “possibility” and not “places” – that there should be the promotion to care for the children at home, how the answer of Federal Minister Pröll was, or whether I would allow the children to be cared for at home through child care, by a mother in Lower Austria, or by a girl in child care – it would be important here! – or whether I'm just going to house the children at a mother's house or in a babysitting facility. Finally, that – your proposal is important! The bandwidth is it, the freedom of choice is it. For this, the ÖVP has always intervened. I ask you to take the ideological glasses and see the needs of women. This is also important in women's policy. The only thing I would allow is a men's women's eyeglasses, when we see that you can see women under the skirts at balustrades that are placed above and transparent, or when apartments are installed with windows, where the windows go all the way down and there are many windows that are to be cleaned – that's all architecturally designed by men. I believe and I am convinced that the ÖVP has done a good job. We will continue this path, and we will continue to take seriously the wide range of needs of the population of women.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8971	Now Mrs. Dr. Belakovich-Jenewein is speaking. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e8992	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, In my opinion, the Greens' present proposal clearly aims to force the division of the genders once again. And this is a picture and a way that we liberals will certainly not go along. According to our conviction, there can only be a relationship between men and women. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, are already so important about women's promotion, then I will give you a right in one point that of course women's promotion and family support belong together. You didn't say it specifically, but you brought in an important point: That's babysitting. The question of childcare is certainly a very up-to-date issue. After all, it also affects the future prospects of the Austrians. Childcare on and on its own intervenes in privacy. However, the kind of childcare is always a reflection of society. I don't want to have the youngest children in Austria to be relocated only in children's crabs. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Allow me to take a look beyond the national borders to France – an EU country that, with about two children per woman, certainly has the highest birth rate in the old EU – and to compare it with the childcare facilities in France. In France, it is also far from these so-called children's cribs, there are day-mothers, who are also quiet for a low-income family. But besides – and this is really an important point in France in particular – and this is the one that is very often overlooked by the left half of the empire – there is a very great support in France for mothers, namely mothers who leave the profession, and that for several years. In Austria, it's more in the arse. In Austria we have the child's money, which is nice and good, but then it's over again. When I read through the new government agreement, I see that there is already another flexibilization, a reduction in child benefits. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, that will come!]] Yes, it is bad enough that it will come, because in the end – and this has already said one of my previous speakers, Mrs Rosenkranz: 42 percent of mothers want to stay with their children! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: (in the direction SPÖ) Forget about it!]] And if you shorten it, then these women have much less chance to stay with their children and have to bring the children back somewhere. And that's exactly the way we don't want to go. We want the mothers to be supported. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] We want the mothers to get their own salary. We want the mothers to be safe. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What about the fathers in your concept?]] You have today praised the compensation allowance with €724. There are still mothers in Austria who raised three, four children and with not even 300 € in pension. That's the custom picture, that's worth child rearing in this country! And that's a shame for Austria. [[New welcome to the FPÖ.]] But an important topic of women's policy – and that is something that the Greens like to drop under the table because it contradicts their healing multicultural world view – is immigration. In the last few decades, this unrestricted migration has led to the resumption of a women's image in Austria, which we saw in the 21st century. In fact, it is no longer necessary in the 19th century. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: What's that?]] And this is the cliché of the little house on the stove, which must obey the man unconditionally. And where will that live? – This will be lived in your immigrant families with the Islamic background! And you have to take note of that! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Watch out!]] [[Abg. Stadlbauer: That's incredible!]] I know you're all blind on this eye. For you, it is an enrichment when it comes from abroad. But one example: the headcloth, the head cloth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stadlbauer.]] The ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire come in tears with a loud grievance! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] I know, I understand. They feel that this is a multicultural enrichment. For us, this is a symbol of the oppression of the woman. [[Complaints and bravaders at the FPÖ.]] A symbol of oppression in a Europe of 21st century. There was nothing lost in the 19th century. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Human rights hard to worry about what you are doing!]] And in France, for example, the ban on the headscarve is already a reality. And according to a study by the French Ministry of Education, even the students from families of North African background – that is, Muslim students – feel the ban on Islamic headcloth in school as liberation. That is also a fact that you have to take note of too! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] And that is why the ban on the headscarve should finally be implemented in Austria too. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And as long as you're not doing anything against this kind of women's oppression, the credibility on the left half of the empire is not given to me. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You don't want people there anyway! Then why are you talking about the headwear ban?]] – They demand equal rights for women, but forget that there is a very large number of women being suppressed here! I'm still telling you something, there's still a very big problem, especially with immigrants. This is the problem of forced pangs. There was a study on behalf of the women's representatives of the city of Vienna – so certainly not to be attributed to us! [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Yes, then let's do something about it!]] [[Abg. You don't mind!]] And this has found that women from Albanian, Bosnian, Indian, Kurdish, Tamil, Turkish and Roma families in particular are forced to marry. – Where is your approach? Where's your solution expertise? I miss that! I miss that in Vienna, but I miss it here in the high house. If you read this study, you can see that there is: The age of marriage in Austria is 18 years – with the consent of the parents it may be below. [[Abg. May. Worm: LEFÖ! Look at the LEFÖ!]] But then it goes on: The home law of the spouses is preferred in the Austrian legal system as long as it does not contradict the Austrian fundamental values. Minimum age limits can, however, be avoided. – This means in clear text that 14-year-old girls in Austria can be married. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No! In Turkey, not in Austria!]] - No, in Austria! It is clear from this study. If you read this study, you can see that there is: The change in citizenship law, the birthplace principle is to come instead of the now valid right of blood. – And that’s exactly what it says: the ius solo instead of the ius sanguinis. This means that the law of the home country can be implemented here in Austria, and with it children from 14 years of age can be carried out. ==References====External links== [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Strache: This is what you can do!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: That's what always wanted the Partik-Pablé!]] And you, ladies and gentlemen of the left half of the empire, are not only blind on this eye, you let it happen, you allow it to continue in your multicultural romance on the nasal market and buy pistachios in exotic surroundings. That's how it happens to me! And it's the Wiener SPÖ who doesn't do anything, and that's where it needs to be. Not to age here, Mrs Heinisch-Hosek! It is your party that does nothing in Vienna! But, of course, I come back to the Greens – after all, they are a request from the Greens –: It is also true that when I read this request, I have to say that it is a sequence of words of any kind. The labour market for women – that is all quite sweet and beautiful, and I have already said that childcare is also very important. But the essential problems of women, the essential issues of women, which I have now also mentioned here, as regards the oppression of women, are not addressed. Another point that does not occur in any way at all is violence against women. Violence against women does not seem to exist with you, or You have forgotten it, please submit it in this request! What is also important to us – to return to the problem in Austria again –: We liberals insist that there should also be a man's advice. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek.]] [[Abg. Strache: They don't see their children!]] Because many of the problems women have are men's problems. Women who are abused by violent men are usually in the advisory bodies. This is at the heart of the problem, and here the men are among the advisory bodies. Alcohol problem, family violence – all of this has an impact. [[Abg. May. Worm: Is there!]] – No, there is no such thing! And you don't demand it, and you have it – I can remember! – It used to laugh that there should be a man-advisor agency that deals with these problems exactly. And that's exactly where it's supposed to be. Women's policy cannot be considered isolated. It can only be considered within the framework of a family policy, and there are also men and, of course, children. [[Abg. May. Worm: Ah!]] - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9349	The next item is Mrs Stadlbauer. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9371	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I think that would fill evenings to address my previous speaker, but just a sentence: It is truly incredible that you are talking about women's policies and equality of women only in the context that you can surrender your xenophobic hates here. That's incredible and human-rightly totally distressing. You should be ashamed of it, it has not lost anything in this house! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Street: Quite the contrary: they abandon these women!]] Now on the real issue of the application: The Greens are once again explaining the world to us in this proposal, which is quite good when the Green Group is dealing with it because it is really important. Only: We know all that is in the Preamble, and the point is that we are working to improve this situation. Unfortunately, the proposal that exists today is too little, because you only call on the Minister of Women to become active while we want to take the whole government to the task of becoming women's political activity. They are very loud. Your female voice – which is also very good – only the problem I see and have over and over again is that then no concepts follow. There are no ideas, there are no proposals, and here again in the request you are delegating everything to the Minister for Women. Unfortunately, something of its own is not there. A few days ago, Mrs Glawischnig let us tell the press that the SPÖ women no longer have their own ideas on women's policy. Now I'm wondering, Where are the ideas of Mrs. Glavischnig? The only idea I've heard recently from her is the tax deductibility of childcare. [[President Dr Spindelegger shall take over the chairmanship.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a conservative redistribution idea of Mrs Glavischnig, and it is very good that this is not in the government programme now, because I wonder: Who benefits from this measure? – You yourself, but not most of the women we really need and need to support. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] The expectations I would have for the Green Group, especially for women, including women's policy, are not this oppositional reflex, now the SPÖ is on the government and now we are back to the SPÖ, but rather a support for the policies we want to make for women – we are not essentially different here – and above all for the Minister of Women, so that she can continue to do so in the government. I cordially invite you to do this for the women in Austria. Mr Heinisch-Hosek has already said it. I am now referring to the points contained in this proposal, and I am doing so very briefly. Points 1, 3 and 5 are at work, or there is a confession by the Minister of Women. The claim item 4 has been implemented since 1993. In the case of item 6, the Minister of Women has negotiated more money than you request in the application. Only point 7: It would also have been better for us if there were funds from the Federation for childcare facilities. We have also had this in our demand programme for government negotiations. So it's certainly not the women's minister's fault that this isn't in there right now. On point 2, I would like to say a few words. This concerns the link between economic promotion and industrial equality, the development of something. So, just to blame the Minister for women's rights here is simply too short, because this is what the Minister of Women wants and that is what the SPÖ also wants. In this context, I recall the women's desire at the end of the 1990s, where one of the demands was to link public contracts to women's promotion in the workplace. I remember that at the time the SPÖ-led resorts did this very well. There was an internal directive of the then SPÖ Federal Chancellor. There was a questionnaire from the then Minister of Women Barbara Prammer to the companies, as they consider it to be with the promotion of women. And many companies at that time have been dealing with it for the first time at all. That is, we want it; that was also part of our demand programme. That's just not what ÖVP wanted. And the compromise is now financial incentives for women's promotion plans in companies. This can be done, and I think we will at least use all the power to implement it in this way. I really hope for support from the coalition partner, because this is a reasonable measure, and also from the Greens. The SPÖ is the guarantee of a change of course in women's policy. Doris Bures is an effective voice for women. Federal Chancellor Gusenbauer is important for women's policy demands. That means, to us, it's not supposed to be the SPÖ. We have the comprehensive concepts and we will now implement them in a nationwide campaign. Today and tomorrow, we have a national action day in all districts, wherever we tell women what we want to do, because we are now lucky that social democrats can shape. You'll see, we're ready. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9439	The next item is Mrs Steibl's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9462	Mrs Federal Minister for Women, Media and Public Service! Dear Secretary of State! I have now tried to follow this debate for two hours. I am lucky to have been here in Parliament for some time and to make women's and family policies here. I had the wrong to also exasperate myself to exasperate the speech of Mr Zwerschitz, where I think that was an insult to men and women, mothers and fathers who have the courage and the strength to live family – and family is still the best for our children. [[Congratulations with ÖVP and FPÖ.]] I am also madling up, or I smile – I do not know exactly what I really want to do – about the situation that has now arisen here in Parliament through the women's discussion, especially with the Greens. I'm not sure if it was a men's discussion, whether that would have been the case. Madam President Glawischnig, I would nevertheless like to thank you for the demand for tax deductibility, which is an important issue and also a call from the ÖAAB for years. However, I am horrified by you, Mrs Weinzinger, and also you, Mrs Zwerschitz, as I have already said, on the fact that you are becoming increasingly aggressive in your speeches. I'll tell you something, I'll give you something on the way: I am grateful and happy to be able to live in this country Austria. And we have achieved a great deal in recent years and also before, that people here in Austria are doing well, knowing that not everyone is as good as us. And I don't have to do anything bad and make it ready. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Sometimes I feel as if I were in the TV series “Reich and Beautiful”; that’s only about Zank and Hader. The greens used to be with the reds, now the greens are against the reds. We in the EIA are very much in favour of government work because we have also shown for years how important and how necessary government work for women's policy is for family policy. I would just like to make a few points. For example: Kindergarten billions. First of all, this was a kindergarten billion in Schilling, second, we are all, whether ÖVP or any other, for the expansion of childcare in the public sector, but also within the family, for example, about day mothers. And I'll tell you one thing: The countries are also called upon to make their contribution, because since the child care allowance is available, the national staff and local authorities have not paid a cent for it, because they receive it from the family compensation fund. And there are a few million left. And I also direct the kindergarten holder: The next census is definitely coming. And then the mayors or those responsible in the larger cities look at how they come to higher population numbers. I think it is possible to regulate a number of things here on the financial compensation. The fact that we are going to do a lot on the part of the government here is certainly clear. Next point: Women's employment rate increased to 65 percent. Yes, 3 percent, we are already 62.3 percent, and the EU average is now 60 percent. And you also have to say that there was a good work. And I say once again – I think a colleague from our group has already mentioned this – that part-time work can also be beneficial. And many women and also men, thank God, say that at some stage they want to work part-time, even if the children are small, even if there are care obligations for older people within the family. On the women's promotion plans, the Greens' wish for anchorage: I do not think you know that since 1992 there has been § 97 in the Labour Constitution Act, where there is a great deal about business agreements, please, the possibility of introducing women's promotion plans. This was a subject in the course of the treatment of women's desire, which was also implemented. On the demand for a binding commitment when public funds flow into businesses, I say to you: It is important to me that first, when public funds flow into businesses, one sees that there are job-sustaining and job-creating measures for women and men, because only this is how we continue in the field of the economy. I mean, finally again, it would do us good if we did not publicly make such a hack on the subject of women's policy in this area. Women's policy is indeed cross-cutting policy, goes into family policy, goes into economic policy. And more meaning for the future would be appropriate.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9525	The next speaker is Mr Zanger. Voluntary limit on speaking time: 5 minutes; The Group's remaining speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9547	Mr President. Ladies on the government bank! High house! Mrs Steibl, you have just said to the Greens: You'll be so aggressive when you talk. – Look, that’s exactly why we men often avoid interfering in debates about women’s stories in a wise way. You may be surprised that as a man, I am referring to a women's theme today, but I see it as a charming but also necessary controversy, for even in court the defendant is offered the possibility of defense. But, of course, the reasons are elsewhere. There is, of course, the highest respect that we men – especially I – generally subject to in the ladies' world. [[Congratulations with the FPÖ and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Secondly, I'm not shy of the lion's cave. And thirdly, I'm happily married. And – God be praised! – even my wife seems to be happily married to me, she has already given me two wonderful sons in my early years. And imagine, she's done something completely different: Contrary to the already prevailing spirit of emancipation, she has not given up both careers and leisure time, for her absolute will was to educate our two children themselves, not to push them off in any care units or other, and to devote them all the time she was available to them. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Of course, this has meant abduction for us. We couldn't afford everything. But believe You're telling me: What we sowed with our children at the time, we can reap it a hundred times today. And no money in the world could replace what I experienced! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I believe that she has experienced the highest appreciation from me regarding her commitment to budget management and, above all, her great time in child rearing. And there you should also ask the question: Is this worth something to the state – and if so, how much? Unfortunately, this is no longer a matter of course to be seen today. It's terrifying: For many young girls, children are not just an obstacle to getting professional career leaders, children are even seen as a restriction in leisure design. The number of abortions reaches terrible dimensions. Marriage, i.e. the lifelong partnership, loses its importance at the expense of the so-called life-spent partnerships – a development that is very worrying to me. Then: In fact, reproduction is a basic human need. The scientist Abraham Maslow has already noted this in his need pyramid. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Eating, drinking and sex in the sense of reproduction, he wrote, which is to be read everywhere. – I know, some people are reducing this and cluttering the reproduction. The family, ladies and gentlemen, is the basis of this republic. It has to go back to the centre of our policy. And a family is now a family of children. It's not a burden, it's a state order! In this sense, women who rely on children in the family and on time for their own children, who do not regard careers and high salaries as the most important in their lives, have the highest appreciation of all of us. Many women see themselves as emancipated feminists or feminist emanzen – depending on them. Of course, this respect was also accepted. It is quite a risk for a man to deal with this group. Many are already so emancipated that sometimes I think it will be time for us men to “e-wife” us pretty slowly. – But of course there is also a serious background. With shudders I think of the high divorce rates in our country, and I know that many men are being pushed by women to the brink of their existence. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Stoisits.]] But it's much worse when judges without family background and women with false accusations delay men's right of visit so far that they often don't see their children for months, yes, for years. – With all understanding of the concerns of women: Such behavior is less female than cruel!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9644	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Deputies. 5 minutes of voluntary speaking time limit; 6 minutes of remaining speaking time of the political group. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9665	Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear Secretary of State! Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I admit, of course, it would be tempting to address the speeches of the previous speaker, but I think it is enough to confess that everyone should say what he thinks – it was bad enough. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Minister has rightly said that it must be our interest to support a modern women's policy in the interests of women. – Dear Mrs. Federal Minister! I would like to say, in addition, that: I think also the men – at least those who want to live in a somewhat just world. It is not only women's business to fight their rights and to finally be equal, but it is also a matter for us! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think it might have been possible for my previous speaker to recognize and say if he could have. But let me also say a second thing: For example, I think it is very important to see clearly that the question which freedoms men and women have in genuine marriage in child rearing depends very much on the economic scope they have. Today, we have a situation – which has been said several times – where women's income is simply so much lower in full-time work than men's, that in general, for economic reasons, the man remains at home. That was also the reason why we called for, for example, a flexibilization of the karenz money, not only in this relatively rigid form, which was now possible, but beyond. And one of these well-known “left organizations” such as the Red Cross today called for the introduction of an income-related pension fund because that is the only thing that allows parents to make a free decision without economic pressure to stay at home or to work – a decision that today normally needs to be made so that the woman remains at home if someone stays at home because it is not economically different. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] We also have the evidence that this is true. If we look at the number of men in the public service in Karenz – especially if they are married to women who are also in the public service – then we can see that there is a much higher number of men’s carnations – simply because the income question is evened there. So we should finally recognise there that further steps are needed and that one can go further than it was possible at the coalition negotiations this time. Let me say another thing – and also talk about my European function –: A few days ago, a survey by EUROSTAT, the Statistical Office of the European Union, on the issue of ‘European enterprises in the mirror of statistics’ was published. And on this occasion, it has been examined which sectors are in Europe, where most women are employed, and which are those in Europe where most men are employed. And I can tell you the result: The first three places in the sectors in Europe where women have the highest share are: Textiles, clothing, leather and shoes – there women account for 65 percent – and second place: Retail trade – women account for 61 percent – third place: Hotel and restaurants with a female share of 55 percent. What does that tell us? - You're kidding! [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – What does that tell us? – That tells us that this is exactly the sectors in which the least paid. And I think we should think about why these are the sectors where women are the most busy. If we look at the sectors where men are the most busy, it is not particularly surprising that the construction industry and the real world are leading by 92 percent – this is especially the construction: Sure, men usually work there. The second is the extraction of nonenergy minerals, ore mining, extraction of stones and earth – i.e. mining companies: No, also a high proportion of men. And third place is metals and metal products. But let me address another point, namely the question of where the highest wages are paid, and then the coincidence will show that these are not women's sectors again. The highest wages are paid: First place: Vehicle construction with an average of €49 000 per year; second place: Energy with 42 000 €; third place: Chemicals, rubber and plastics industries. – All three not women’s sectors. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, what we already need to clarify and what you also need to make clear to the Greens is that the question whether this is the case or not does not depend exclusively on the Austrian Minister for Women. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dolinschek.]] What is necessary is for all of us – at the level of federal policy, at the level of national policy, at the level of municipal policy – to be involved in this and for women and men to be involved in it, both in small and large. The question of whether justice can be achieved here is a matter of everyday commitment by all of us, and I am promoting support for it, including for the work of this Federal Government and the Minister for Women!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9743	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. Maximum speaking time: 10 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9764	My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government here in the house, in the plenary room! Thank you, dear Caspar. One, it was beneficial what was said here, but nevertheless, a note has already been allowed to me. Of course, it is entirely legitimate for a SPÖ member to appeal to us here and say that he is promoting support for the Ministry of Women. – Yes, it’s okay, only we are allowed to point this out: We are not an association or a political group to support a women's minister, but we are a party that believes that women's policy concerns are important for men and women! – And I hope we meet on this point. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am rather, I must say quite honestly, disturbed by the course of the debate, about the fact that we are in the hair of those who have further demands in women's policy. Yes, thank God there are further demands in women's policy, and if the Minister of Women felt that this was an attack on her, she would not be in place, ladies and gentlemen. I hope that we also have differences in women's policy, which can be expressed in some way in solidarity here. But these points must be on the table! Of course, we expect a women's minister to work for women's affairs in the Federal Government, and not to receive an answer: A woman's minister isn't there to make women's policy, but that's a cross-sectional matter, across all ministries! – Yes, of course, we also know that the individual departments, no matter whether they are occupied by men or women, should also have the requirement to make women’s policies in order to make policies for women. Only they don't hold it, whether men or women, in most cases! The next item on the agenda, a question debate, will show how miserable this still looks in certain areas, for example at the Vienna Philharmonics, and how much the public hand continues to grant support to the Vienna Philharmonics, for example, and it seems to her that although women's promotion is agreed with this association, it is not taking place. – And I think we need to talk about it! And it is not just a matter of talking about it, but of setting up initiatives! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, if you tell us: We are far more than you green with your seven-point program!, and tell us in the next sentence – I wrote it down –: Let us be glad that not everything is so concrete in the government programme! Then I wonder if this contradiction is not too blatant. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Well!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: No, that is no contradiction!]] These seven points we demand are not the last possible thing. These are demands, of which you – at least I have not heard otherwise – are as convinced as we are that they should be fulfilled, but we know that little has been agreed on in the government programme. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Targets!]] – You may not want to prevent that from doing it anyway. I can still remember – this is about two weeks ago – that at an event where some of you were present, Mrs. Dohnal said in a speech: Well, forget the government program! If only I had done what had been agreed in there, I wouldn't have gone on! I did things, even without them being agreed, and that was difficult enough! – I am saving myself the side remarks she has made, where it was difficult in the respective party, in this case in your party. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Stadlbauer]] It doesn't matter. You know, I'm more concerned about the fact that we or I, as a man, had to experience in this debate that the women's politicians of the different parties did not take one step at a time. I have experienced here in Parliament the times when women's politicians have agreed on concerns throughout the parties when they were important to them, and that has not meant that one has pulled the other over the table. But at the moment I cannot recognize this situation at all. What dominates here is either: High the family!, High the family!, and again: High the family!, and the burden, if you want to do so, should be borne by women – or a debate between women from different parties who throw each other's heads – and that should not be – which is better in women's policy. In this sense, it is not helpful either, I think, to lead the debate in this way. – I want to lead them in the substance again! [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Don't get ahead of the women again, as a man!]] Back to concrete points. I would have liked the following – and you know that was a concern of the women's people's desire, which happened in 1997, if I was not deceived –: 15 000 S as a minimum wage. At the time, this was what women demanded as a minimum wage for women, already in 1997. Ten years later, you and the government party ÖVP also declare: We are so proud that we 1 000 € – which would amount to 13,700 S, gross! – Perhaps this year agree! Now you explain this to us, in 2007 – although you know as well as we do, that 2003 this ÖVP with the FPÖ at that time has already had the 1 000 € in its programme inside! And we should actually debate why, in years of joint effort, nothing has been done and done in this matter. This is pathetic if, in 2007, we still have to discuss the fact that a demand for women's people's desire from 1997 has not yet been implemented, as we have done! What are the circumstances that prevented Austria – primarily for women; I am convinced – from reaching €1,000? Look Second, you will have to: Why do you stick to this 1 000 €? – I say: This is wrong, the perspective with the 1 000 €! – First of all, it would have to be more, and second, you would have to break it down to the hourly wage. This is the only way to measure it, and only in this way would it be possible to cover those areas in which short-term employment – in the first place it is done by women – which is paid significantly lower, partly in the public or semi-public sector! These are not so many private businesses that pay so little. - That's one. As the second, beyond the minimum wage and one approach, I believe that one does not go further with self-increasing speeches – there is an urgent need for action! – I take out the women's quota policy. This proposal, which we are proposing, contains in many respects a link to quotas. And you, Mrs. Federal Minister, explain to us in one of your first speeches here that quotas are not so important at all! And then I wonder, What does that mean? Do we really still, in the sense of these seven points and of what you think is right and important, have common concerns in women's policy – where we may be able to argue about whether one is further ahead and the other is further behind or somewhere in the field, so that we do not have to value it and order it – or is there a change taking place here? We say clearly here – also from the experience as a Green Party: We think quotas are correct and important! Yes, they can move something! They're not the panacea, but they're correct and important. – Why Refuse Are you taking into account what is proposed in these seven points of quota policy? – These are crucial questions that could have brought us a piece before the women’s day if answers had come here! This too is the tragedy of this debate, and not just the fact that we had to endure Mr. Zanger's beer concept here, which, I know, could have taken place in a bud and would probably have come up with an advocacy there. But, excuse me, Mr. Zanger, in here? – Yes, we do, but as a man I am ashamed that I have to discuss at this level – because I feel misunderstandingd as a man, also by women. [[Call to the FPÖ: That is how parliamentarianism is!]] And I do not feel in the same position as you, Mr. Zanger.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9868	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, to take a seat, because we are now coming to the vote. We come to the vote on the self-employed motion for a resolution by Mr Glavischnig-Piesczek, ladies and gentlemen, on 'Women's policy measures: Where are they?” I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority. The application is therefore rejected. [[18:32:01]] Short debate on the reply to the question 201/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9907	We are now entering the brief debate on the question of the German Chancellor's reply with the order number 201/AB. The... The answer to the question has already been distributed, so that a reading by the author is not necessary. We are going into the debate. I draw attention to the fact that according to § 57a para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with a speaking time of 10 minutes for the first speaker. Statements by members of the Federal Government and State Secretarys on the floor should not last more than 10 minutes. I now ask Mr Zinggl as an applicant for the request to open the debate. Speech time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e9944	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! In December of last year, I sent a parliamentary question concerning the proportion of women in the Vienna Philharmonic to the then Federal Chancellor Schüssel, who was in the meantime answered by the German Chancellor Gusenbauer – an answer that I am not quite satisfied with. I am also surprised that the Minister now responsible is not here. Finally, my question concerns a kind of change – if that is desired at all – but I assume, Secretary of State Silhavy, that you will address my wishes and complaints in the direction and hope that there will be some change. In my first three questions, I have referred to the management of the State Opera Orchestra, which has been re-ordered – this is a function that was first set up by the current Opera Director – Director of the State Opera Orchestra, and you will now ask yourself: What does that have to do with the Philharmonics? A brief explanation: Anyone who wants to become a Philharmonic or a Philharmonic must be employed in the State Opera Orchestra for three years. And my consideration was that - and that was also expressed in the question -: Why can an orchestra director who is obviously anti-female, a person who has repeatedly spoken against the inclusion of women in the Philharmonics? It's about Mr Werner Resel. Werner Resel led the Wiener Philharmoniker until 1997 and then resigned after the Philharmonics voted in favour of allowing women. It is also that Werner Resel, who has repeatedly made anti-female statements. I just remember one: To the question of schoolchildren in a guided tour, why do not women play at the Philharmonics, he answered: Because this is an orchestra of white men playing the music of white men for white men. The first two can still be understood, because the Philharmonics were at that time actually loud white men, and that the composers are at least in the majority of white men, is also historically proven. But “for white men”, that practically excludes all listeners! – And he would have wanted to do so, that would have been his favorite. This gentleman is now head and director of the State Opera Orchestra! – And in response to my request, I get that I assume a wrong assumption and that this orchestra director has only internal, administrative functions. Well, that's right – he also has other functions, but he also has internal, administrative functions. And one of these functions is, for example, co-determination, who to be accepted as a test game at all. That is, the State Opera Orchestra as a conifer is practically responsible for whether one can become a Philharmonic or a Philharmonic. And I can only say, as in the Bible: Rather, a camel goes through a needlehole than that a woman can become a Philharmonic over the State Opera Orchestra under Werner Resel. On Question No 5, I then asked directly: “How high is the proportion of women... in the State Opera Orchestra and in the Vienna Philharmonic?” – At the State Opera Orchestra, the answer was correct with a little more than 4 percent. To do this, I have to say: This is an international share, that is to say, in the final place. There is no internationally renowned orchestra that has such a small share! The following orchestra would be the Philharmonie in Prague with 8 percent. And to the question of how many women are employed at the Vienna Philharmonics, I actually get a really funny answer, namely: more than 4.3 percent – because there are five women there: one active and four candidates. So that's really a salmon number! That's about as if I were to ask: How many Catholic popes are there?, and the answer is: 70 – namely an active and 69 who want to become it. – So that really is not possible! – And it’s going to be, and that’s also nice in the question response inside, compared with the active members, and then you get a percentage of 4 percent. If you actually put the 116 active members of the Vienna Philharmonic into relation to the only woman, you get a percentage of 0.86 – and you can't even call it a female part, because there is something like a minimum value. I then asked how this has shifted over the last ten years, so what has improved there, and get an answer to the question only to the State Opera Orchestra; the Philharmonics are completely excluded here. - Well, it's clear: The share has not changed at all! Ten years ago, the Wiener Philharmoniker had a harpist – and now, ten years later, they still have a harpist. So the share has remained constant, there is no development at all. Then I also asked what the Wiener Philharmonikers get from subsidies. That is because in some newspapers it is said that this is a private association and that the Greens should not take care of the private associations – a private club, which is yet to do so, has not received any subsidies. The answer has failed correctly: The Vienna Philharmonics receive €2.2 million a year, still valued for it. And this is, of course, an amount fixed with a ten-year contract. This is a real rarity in art! This is an amount that accounts for almost 3 percent of the art budget and is still guaranteed for it for 10 years, always recurring – which is not true for other art institutions with a much higher proportion of women at all. I'm thinking about it. Can we, as parliamentarians and parliamentarians, see this? Can we see that there is nothing at all there is that there is no development here, nor that where the Treaty between the Vienna Philharmonic and the Republic of Austria definitely stands – and that is also from the answer to my question – that the Vienna Philharmonic Do you have to make an absolute equality of opportunity for men and women in the orchestra? This equal opportunities, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly not available, and there is no development at all as far as this is concerned. Therefore, we have to ask ourselves whether these subsidies are justified by contract at all. Now one could say that equal opportunities is created – there are no women who play as well as these more than 100 men! But it can be avoided that every year at the universities, at the art universities responsible for music, more women than men, with a better average score. That means that there is the potential. And now only one question remains: Why doesn't that change? Why does the proportion of women in the Philharmonics not increase? And: Why do we pay this Philharmonic €2.2 million annually? Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10032	Mrs Silhavy, Secretary of State, spoke from the government bank. Mrs. State Secretary, I'll send you the clock at 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10053	Mr President. High house! Mr Zinggl, I understand that you are not satisfied with this answer, because the proportion of women is not satisfactory; there is no need to talk about it and not about it. Nevertheless, I may: They point out that the Wiener Philharmoniker is an association, that this is a membership, that, as you yourself know, the inclusion in this association can only take place after three years of belonging to the Orchestra of the Vienna State Opera, and that a written request for admission to the Committee is to be addressed. This will then obtain opinions and submit the request to the Annual General Meeting for the vote. And then one remains a member of the Vienna Philharmonic with immediate effect until the voluntary departure, so to speak until the exclusion, or until you finally retire as a member of the State Opera Orchestra. I believe – and you yourself have mentioned this – that the first way is to start working, and that is at the State Opera Orchestra. You know that as well as I do. At the Staatsopernorchester one has finally presented a plan, where one finally introduces equal treatment, so to speak, for the State Opera Orchestra – but this applies to the whole of the Bundestheater. This plan is 1st. September 2006 entered into force, and you will probably also understand that there is no way to see God as yet how great progress can be made. It shall be valid until 31. August 2012 and will be adjusted for the first time in 2008. - So much for information. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Equality Plan or Equal Treatment Plan?]] Right of treatment plan. The second point that seems important to me is the point you have referred to Mr Resel. You know that at the time, not least because of the statements he made, he was selected as the board of directors of the Vienna Philharmonic. In the answer to the question, you have received the answer that he has coordinating functions, i.e. he has no decision to make any personnel and therefore no influence on the personnel decisions. I believe that an essential point is that we all need to ensure that discrimination does not take place together – and this, of course, applies not only to the House, but above all to the government and the competent government politicians – but also to the fact that discrimination does not mean that we also have to influence the fact that there is, of course, also the state operas and other areas, that we eliminate gender discrimination and finally bring about genuine equality and genuine equality. The fact that I am answering the question now arises from this time window, where you have put the question, namely that the question answered by the Federal Chancellor has been made, because at that time the Federal Ministerial Act was not yet adopted, and in the representation of the Federal Chancellor I am here today. This is not a violation of the competent Federal Minister, but is the result of the Rules of Procedure after which we have to proceed at the end of the day. I am convinced – and the previous debate has shown how the Minister of Women himself is trying to set new impulses in women's policy, to move forward in women's policy – that we will succeed in these areas, where we have admittedly been waiting for success so far. I can say this openly here: I myself have been Members of this House for many years, and it is an irony of history that I myself, as Members of Parliament, have referred a question to the members of the government in this regard. As I said, I hope that we will take a proper step forward with the equal treatment plan. This is also the point where one can start, namely in the field of labour law, and I believe that we are all very interested in the fact that even in the arts and culture field equal treatment not only remains a lip commitment, but also that the reservoir, which Austria has, has, Austria – and not only Austria, but also the international one – can no longer pass through the Vienna Philharmonics, namely, talented and important artists. – Thank you for the attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10100	The speaking time of the Members who have now spoken shall be 5 minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10124	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Zinggl's initiative fits very well at this time, at tomorrow's International Women's Day, and she had actually heard during the last legislative period and had been answered by the black and blue/orange government. And she's not really new, either, as we've heard. State Secretary Silhavy has asked a question about this many years ago, and I too asked a question in 2001. The fact that I dared to do this alone has caused an improbable excitement for the mostly male responsible in the field of opera, but also for a large colorful leaf. It is not to be discussed away, as we have already heard, that the proportion of women in the Vienna Philharmonic has been extremely low for years. These 4.31 percent are very few, and they are particularly few when you know that there is only one active woman, an active musician and just four candidates of 116 active members. In relation to other large orchestras this is very small, and it is also very unfortunate. For example, when you look at the Berlin Philharmonic viewed: They have a percentage of 12 percent of female members. The orchestra of the Zurich Opera has even a percentage of 40 percent. The historical self-conception of the Wiener Philharmoniker has certainly contributed to this still very low-average proportion of women. Clearly, it is a very difficult process to create a corresponding consciousness and prevent glass ceilings. In addition, the previous government and the indifferent attitude of the last German government have not exactly accelerated the process of change in women's issues. I got a rather patchy answer from the former Chancellor, who literally replied to the question of how he explained the seemingly low proportion of women in the Philharmonic and the State Opera Orchestra: This question is not a matter of execution. The question of more women in the orchestra was obviously not intended to take up the question quite consciously, because at the conclusion of the 2001 Treaty, in which the Republic has committed itself to payments of €2.2 million per year to the Vienna Philharmonics, it has been agreed to a ten-year ban, thus eliminating the question of women. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is the fact that there are certainly very good, very many excellent musicians, and these musicians will find their way into the orchestra of the Vienna Philharmonic over a short or long time, because quality will prevail in the long term. So it's just a matter of time. – Unless, ladies and gentlemen, you take the quality criterion seriously and stick to it not only during the anonymous admission process, but also in the following periods. Here one can clearly see the similarity of the problem to very different areas, namely, how quickly the so-called glass ceiling is drawn into organisations when it comes to defending or demarcating women. That is why it is so important that we have a women's minister again and also a Federal Chancellor's Office, who is vehemently committed to women's affairs. Now, since autumn 2006, there has finally been an equal treatment plan for the entire Bundestheater Group, which will help Seine to actively promote women in the medium term. I therefore share the assessment of German chancellor Gusenbauer, who, as he wrote in his reply to the question, expects a further increase in the proportion of women in the arts and culture sector in general and in particular in the Vienna Philharmonic. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote from the homepage of the Vienna Philharmonic: “Over the course of its 160-year existence, the musicians have experienced and influenced... the musical events through a time period, which, because of the variety of brilliant composers and performers, appears to be unique in their artistic significance.” It would be perfect if this unique orchestra were to be seen in ten years not only as a musical ambassador to Austria, but also as an orchestra, which in its own series actually gives women like men the same place and, of course, speaks proudly of its high proportion of women on the homepage! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10186	The next speaker is Mr Morak. A maximum speaking time of 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10209	Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Front: That is a question to the Federal Chancellor. - I'm glad you're here. I know which situation you are in – I was there myself in the short term. That means you're welcome! That's what I wanted to say. [[Rejoicing and condolences with representatives of ÖVP and SPÖ.]] I know, ladies and gentlemen: Whenever the greens don't think of anything, they say: Wiener Philharmoniker – Women's share! I do not know how many times this question has already been raised since I was in Parliament – certainly ten times – but it is always an indication that there is something here that still exists on the one hand. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] On the other hand, I also say: What are the facts? – The facts are that there is a foreplay behind the curtain that is released that nobody knows who is playing behind the curtain. It is also true that the proportion of women is still lamentablely low, but also – and this is also to be said – that it is one of the world's best orchestras. And some who understand music a lot say it's the best orchestra in the world. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mein Ladies and gentlemen, I know that at a time when the Greens were still thinking that cultural policy is about potters, carpets and bats – well, that's not so long ago! – a State Secretary at the Ministry of Social Affairs, Franziska Fast, said on the verge of orchestral grave in the Vienna State Opera: [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Go, please!]] But there are no women among them, there we will stop the subsidies. - And down there one said: G’Hold’S Ihna the million! – I want to say that this has been a very self-confident giant of men, in whom a different spirit has recently prevailed. It was originally a men's combo, and slowly, but surely a new spirit also comes into this ensemble. I have to say, a lot of guys I'm talking to say, It is very necessary that this change be carried out, but of course also on the basis of the quality, which is the claim of this orchestra. Ladies and gentlemen! Even I believe – and with me my party – that we should not have as much time as the Swiss used for women's right to vote. I don't mean we should say, "Come time, come woman," but maybe some Philharmonic has listened too often to the cap who said: Speed kills. – In this sense: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10275	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Weinzinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Here you go.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10312	You can really say: Fortunately, this was a State Secretary. Mr President. Mrs. State Secretary! Mr Morak, I think you do not know how my colleague Silhavy is, because she has spoken freely and with her own opinion. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I now use a little bit of my speaking time for something that is actually an actual right. Mr Morak, you should actually know before the black curtain comes, there is the approval procedure for the test game. That's the first obstacle, it's not that easy. That's where we know from a lot of cases – you should actually know – where women's discrimination is already beginning. Then there is the famous black curtain, but it does not regulate the admission to the Philharmonic, but only to the State Opera Orchestra. The actual crux – and that's what it was about – is: Who makes it possible for the Staatsopernorchester to be recorded at the Wiener Philharmoniker? And this is surprisingly quite smooth for the men in most cases, with the women there are surprisingly problems again and again. You should have so much seriousness in the debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] What I think is a bit strange are these side remarks about the quality claim. [[Abg. Dr. Haimbuchner: Solution proposals? Not polemics!]] Do you really want to say that the women who have proved themselves to be artists in the State Opera Orchestra would not be good enough for the Philharmonie, those women who then play with other orchestras, for example in Switzerland, absolutely in top quality? So I'd be a little careful if you told the artist ex-cathedra because they're women, they're probably not good enough. Or there was also the argument that the sound coloring of the orchestra would suffer if women played along. There's arguments, they're hair-shattering! And I quote from the “profile” of the year 2003; this is not so long since and early history. In 2003, another violinist of the Philharmonie Orchestra said to the “profile”: “Three women are already too much,”... . Once we have twenty women, the orchestra will be ruined. We made a big mistake and will still regret him bitterly.”” – Whatever the man regrets, I don’t know, but the Berlin Philharmonic has 20 percent of the female share and is a brilliant orchestra. - That's just for the quality argument. To what honourable Members Muttonen and the Secretary of State have said: That was still in the era of black-blue, black-blue/orange! - Yes, it is. However, the Treaty, which has now been sued, which does not make the termination easy for ten years, has already signed the chancellor climate – only for the sake of completeness. The second question is: What to do You with the situation now? As much as I estimate clarity and facts: Chancellor Gusenbauer's answer to the question leaves his own opinion very clearly missing. There is a single sentence in his answer to the question where he finds: In principle, I reject any discrimination. - I hope so! If that wasn't the case, would it be even more beautiful? But in addition to that, he would have only the expression of regret that no longer was done, I think, very well stood up and would have cost nothing; could one say yes. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't be so strict!]] – Mr Parnigoni, it seems that criticism of the SP Chancellor is not permitted – or I do not know what. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Gusenbauer is a fighter for women's rights! He created his own women's ministry!]] Oh, that's right! A SP chancellor must not be criticized. [[Abg. Parnigoni: This is unjust!]] I'm sorry, we're in the opposition and we're going to continue! And I will always be very vehemently criticizing the anti-feminism of women or the shortcomings in equality policy. That is why a very concrete proposal – and I do not understand, Mrs State Secretary, why you did not address it, because it was also addressed by my colleague Zinggl: There is a contract pass, which means that the absolute equal opportunities of men and women in the orchestra must be safeguarded. Normally – see discussion about the Eurofighter! – if there is a breach of a contract, if the non-fulfilment or non-compliance with parts of the contract is demonstrated, the exit from a contract is also possible at any time in time. What, then, prevents you from carrying out an objective review of whether equal opportunities have been safeguarded in the case of the Philharmonics between men and women, because absolute equality of opportunity is clearly not the case in history as we have it? You can lean back and say: This is an association matter whether the women take up or not!, but it is not an association matter whether the Republic of Austria transfers the Philharmonic €2.2 million to funding per year. This is a decision of the government and therefore of policy, and I invite you to review it urgently. I would also like to think about whether one should not use the future occupations that are in place at top positions in the next few years – state operacy, art-historical museum and so on – to increase women's participation in these top positions in order to send a clear signal. And the next time we talk about the Spanish court riding school and the women there.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10425	The next speaker is Mr Lutz Weinzinger. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10449	Ladies, gentlemen! Ladies Secretary of State! Mr President. It is almost a coincidence that I can say, Mr President, because most of the time we have a lady at the Bureau: three presidents, two of them ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! This discussion for more than one and a half hours was very interesting. Unbelievably committed ladies and some very few gentlemen have participated in it, especially my advocate and “name base”, I am now saying quite consciously, because “name-genossin” I do not want to say and “namen-vetterin” is not at all, because the cousin is something male again. You are, of course, right with everything you say about women's policy. They are right, of course, and there was something right everywhere: that the relationship between women and families should not be forgotten, that women, men and children form part of the fact that women's policies can be family policies and must be made, of course, for women's policies, as well as for men's policies. Indeed, politics must be made for all our citizens, female or male, for all! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] But let us assume that the situation of women in our modern world is not the same for decades, for centuries, even for many decades. I've always been in the opinion and live on it: Man and woman are equal to one another, but thank God not equal. Many, many years ago, when my charming predecessor was not yet in the world, the then Federal Party Minister of the FPÖ said about me: Yes, he's from the inn quarter, and in the inn quarter it's so, they're talking about women like this: The woman and the dog belong to the herd and the farm! – That was never my opinion, quite the contrary. Now I don't want to tell my life story and my family story, that's already been told by someone else today. But I would like to say one thing: that you do not do good with this Philharmonic story and similar actions on the matter of women. Please, the Philharmonics have planposts, and on these plan posts of course these gentlemen are sitting, and that was a men's club until 1997. There's something like that! Es There were male singing clubs and there were female singing clubs. And there were men's tournaments, and there were women's tournaments. And of course there are also male orchestras and women's orchestras. It's not supposed to be any more today. But the women's case hurts you if you accuse a highly regarded institution in Austria of things that can't change it so quickly and with which other things are playing in. The question arises: What do you want? As a result of this debate? What do you want? As a result of what you're talking about here? – Do you want to disband the Philharmonic? Do you want to ban her? Or, as you have said here, do you want to demand that they destroy the economic basis? Ladies and gentlemen, this certainly does not serve women's policy, women's policy is fair! Stop such things!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10515	The next speaker is Mr Schalle. A maximum of 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10537	Mr President. Dear Secretary of State! High house! The Vienna Philharmonics are undoubtedly among the most renowned orchestras in the world and very well, I would say, among the best, if it is not even the best. For 48 years, the Wiener Philharmoniker’s New Year’s Concerto has been a fixed point in the ORF and has become a spectacular TV event over the years. Worldwide, over 45 million spectators are seeing this most famous concert in the world. The Philharmonics are one of the largest signposts in Austria, an priceless advertising carrier for our country. You really play in the Champions League, I'd say. But now to your question, Mr Zinggl. As a cultural speaker of the BZÖ, I can only say that the Wiener Philharmoniker, with its 160-year-old tradition as a men's association, broke in 1997. And since this year, women have been admitted as philosophers. [[Abg. Oils: How many?]] If you look at the women's quotas of other renowned international orchestras, you can see that already a quarter to a third of all employed musicians are female members. The Philharmonic Orchestra in New York counts more than 30 percent of female musicians. With the Zurich Opera in Switzerland, the proportion of female musicians is 42 percent. And even the Iranian Symphony Orchestra in Tehran has 30 percent women with 90 members. But I give only one thing to remember: that the Philharmonics have been chosen by international critics as the best orchestra in the world with this still small proportion of women, because of their perfection and because they are just their unmistakable Vienna sound, which is deep in the 19th century. ==References====External links== However, I am firmly convinced that the Philharmonics will be able to receive this high offer in the world with a higher rate of women. I think the time period is still too short to be able to judge it fairly. I know the female rate is relatively low, but the period is too short. In six to seven years they do not create a female quota of 20 percent. In addition, a number of measures have been taken, such as the establishment of an equal treatment officer for the Group as a whole, who will fairly assess whether the female rate is being increased. I can tell you an example from my former group. We had the same problem there. In the meantime, it is that a male quota has been introduced, because all the women who come are better trained and I have always had the problem and said we cannot have loud women, we also need men. – So: It'll change. Be patient! The women are already going through. Only quality prevails.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10573	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. [[19:08:11]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10595	I take the negotiations on the 3rd. Agenda item again. [[Abg. Oillinger: Business treatment!]] Mr Oellinger spoke on business. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10629	Thank you, Mr President. – In the debate on this item on the agenda, I have already referred to business treatment and called for the Minister’s recovery. This request was voted on and rejected. In the debate that followed, Klubobmann Schüssel then spoke and stated here that Minister Hahn had been rightfully represented and had also reported this to Parliament. That may be right, Mr. Klubobmann, but...
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10662	Mr Oellinger, I should now like to ask you to make a request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10677	Of course. But may I also explain the request? I'll hold on to this. Mr Hahn's representation has not been reported to the clubs, and it has not been evocated today, Mr Klubobmann! [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: That's not true!]] You can't explain here, I can't do anything about it, it wasn't evocated. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: application! Request!]] [[Further calls at ÖVP and FPÖ.]] Mr. Klubobmann, it has not been evocated! It then referred to Klubobmann Schüssel as Klubobmann Westenthaler and claimed that the Presidency would be wrong. [[Abg. Grill: The application has been glamour, otherwise no one!]] I still insist, Mr President: It is the right of a club to demand the accession of a minister, even if it is prevented. [[Abg. Dr. Schüssel: No!]] - Of course! A presence in Europe is not considered to be a prevention! That is the first; that is also stated in the federal constitution. I note that the House was not evocated by the presence of the Federal Minister. – Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, it honors you to sit here, but it has not been announced to us. That is why, as a Member of Parliament, we naturally have the right to assume that the competent Federal Minister should be here. [[Call the ÖVP: application! Request!]] [[Abg. Ing. Westenthaler: Don't you even want to make an application? This is not a debate on the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's all green speaking time!]] Mr President, I would therefore ask you to raise here the representation of the Federal Minister, Mr Hahn, by Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, because so far this has not happened.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10806	Mr Oellinger, this question has already been discussed. All the other clubs have also referred to the Rules of Procedure in this matter, and the President-in-Office Glawischnig has pointed out that this question will also be the subject of the next presidency. It is clear that this has been reported to Parliament, which has already been held. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] We are entering the debate. The next item is the speech by Mr Broukal. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor. [[Abg. Broukal points to Abg. Dr. Graf.]] - Or do you give up on it? [[Abg. Dr Graf: Mr President! I was interrupted in my speech. But I wanted...!]] Mr Graf, Are you talking about business treatment? [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Yes!]] - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10873	Mr President. In itself, my speech was interrupted by the call for urgent request. However, in view of the fact that the Minister responsible is not present and that we want to discuss higher education policy in principle, I will refrain from making a further speech, since I have already tabled the request I intend to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10891	Mr President, you have not been reported in my list, so I asked Mr Broukal as the next speaker to come to the speaker's desk. Mr Broukal, would you like a speaking time to be set? [[Abg. Broukal: 5 minutes!]] - 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e10923	Mrs. Minister...! Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! – I’m not quite used to the “hoofcemonic” yet, but it’ll be already. – Mr Graf, you could have given me your 4 minutes, but it will be the same. I am also sorry that Mr. President, Mr. Hahn is not here. This is not a mistrust of you, Mrs Health Minister, but there is a lot to discuss about what is going on in particular. This repair of the high school law is an emergency repair. We must now carry it out so that the elections as provided for by the law can take place in May. We from the Socialist Group have, therefore, refrained from fighting for a long time and bringing our demands into line. This repair does not correspond to what we want. We are largely in line with what Mr Greenewald has tabled as a motion for a resolution. But I say two things: We won't agree to the coalition, with whom we have been imprisoned, with whom we have been hanged, Mr Grünewald. But in a few weeks there is another necessity to talk about a change in the high school law, if... – Don't put each of my words on the gold scale, they often don't deserve it at all. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] In a few weeks' time, we will have to talk about the high school law, because the educational universities have to be admitted, and then it will not be so cheap – this one of our announcements can perhaps take Mrs Kdolsky with Mr. Hahn's Minister – as far as our common demands from not too long ago are concerned. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Graf, I have read with amazement your motion for a resolution. In the explanatory statement, refer to a law that the FPÖ – the FPÖ! – agreed in December 2004. Now everything is completely different again, and it does not apply. At the time, you have approved against our Council and our will those undemocratic states that you now want to put off with this motion for a resolution. [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Not me! Not me!]] You got it. Because you always say, in fact, we no longer need a federal representation of the Austrian high schools, because that was all wrong. There are 21 universities. – You are wrong, colleague, and you know that! For example, if you take this new report: “Evaluation of the impact of § 124b of the University Law 2002”, i.e. the restrictions on access, which were decided two years ago on time: Of course the Federal ÖH is in there! When it comes to reviews: Of course this is the Federal ÖH! And you also know that as long as there were separate elections for the universities and the Federal ÖH, the 10,000 students made use of the possibility to vote differently. You have typically chosen business council-oriented people at universities, elected specialist lists, but at the federal level you have elected the political groups – with one exception: [[Abg. Dr. Graf: Then support our request – and the matter is done!]] Hardly anyone chose the ring of liberal students, that's right. But the action community of the ÖVP, the green students and the VSStÖ were elected at the federal level as representations. This option you wanted to take away from them back in 2004, but see, the story was smarter than your plans: It turned out that thousands of students, if they no longer have the choice of choosing business councils and political ones, will then also vote politically at the universities, and the VSStÖ and the GRAS have had a greater majority than before: casters. By the way, Federal Office: There is no such thing at the vocational colleges. And it was interesting to see that there is now an initiative from the University of Applied Sciences Joanneum in Graz to set up, so to speak, a federal conference of university students, because it is said that there are 40 different colleges and colleges, but there are common concerns of all high school students, and they are to be represented together. As I know well, you have also received an email in which you have asked this group, because it is not by law and because it has no money, to contribute 200 €. – Your answer and check stand out to this day, Mr. Graf!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11011	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Zinggl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11034	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! The Constitutional Court has found that the change in voting rights in 2004 essentially does not contradict the principle of equality, and of course we acknowledge this recognition. But it is not quite to be seen, because if you think that students can continue to be enrolled at several universities and then have the right to vote several times, so you can give several votes, then that is a bit strange. The ÖH has calculated that 180 students, when enrolled at six universities at the same time, will create a mandate. There is something that cannot entirely agree with the principle of equality. Transferring to the national elections would mean that one can not only give his vote where one is registered headquartered, but also at his second residence, and that would of course move the outcome of the election into a completely different direction than we have now. But, as we have said, we recognize this knowledge. What the Constitutional Court has not said, however, is that this reform was at all necessary, and he does not say that this new right would be better or somehow justified. What was the reason at all? Why did the People's Party at the time at the end of 2004 change this right of election at all? – It was quite clear that there was a fear that the ÖH results might not be as bad as you would have hoped. And why was that the case at that time? – Because, of course, a higher education policy, a disastrous higher education policy, was to be assessed. And then the competent minister knew that you knew about the ÖVP and the FPÖ that this could only be bad. What was the second reason? – Of course, the students did not really have a positive assessment of the study fees – even a reason to do something so that it did not affect them. And the third was actually the electoral reform. Now we are facing an ÖH election again – and what has changed compared to 2004? Still, higher education policy is exactly the one there was, and in the budget path it cannot be estimated that anything else can ever become different in the sector, at least in the coming years. We still have the tuition fees, and we still have essentially the same right to vote. Mr Broukal, I cannot understand that. We could have gotten something out of that already during the coalition negotiations. I'll remind you. Your quote here in Parliament – I have written this down; there are many quotations by the SPÖ on this issue, but that is particularly striking – you said here on 16.11.2004: “But we say to students today that we are re-introducing the direct election of the Bundes-ÖH because we are interested in a strong counterpart in university policy.” – citation. We are very excited whether this will really come, and we will then measure you on it. However, during the coalition negotiations you have not yet made it. I would even be for the following solution: If you are already so for direct democracy, then you should let the students decide for themselves, with a First vote, which voting right they want. Growing up enough they would be. And then you could light and observe all of this very nicely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11096	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Darmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11117	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the beginning of this legislative period, we, the BZÖ, made it quite clear that our understanding of opposition work will not be exhausted in the strict and unfounded no-sagen, but that it will be our policy and that we will follow decisions within the meaning of the Austrian population. Therefore, it is a clear concern for us to make the request for a repair of the § 35a para., which was withdrawn by the Constitutional Court in October 2006. This is because the smallest educational institutions, those with fewer than 1 000 students, are currently unable to elect student representatives to represent the students because of the abolition of this section, and the next ÖH election, as we know, is about to come soon. I did not understand how to find an argument against the right to vote to be guaranteed in this motion. Although the Greens and the FPÖ do not need to explain it to me, they will have to explain to their students why they wanted to take such a right of vote. However, we in the BZÖ do not make any sense that we see an urgent need for reform in relation to the current structures of the Austrian high school, which we consider to be untimely. Last but not least, the always low participation in the ÖH elections shows that most of the Austrian students should also be of this opinion. But with all this long-term need for reform, it is now immediately necessary to create the legal conditions for the ÖH elections in the spring of 2007. In order to ensure the representation of these smallest educational institutions in the Federal Office, it is necessary to reintroduce a corresponding provision into the Higher Education Act in 1998. For these reasons, we will also support this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11150	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hauser. Speech time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11172	Mr President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the High School Act urgently needs to be changed and provided with direct-democratic elements proves that already the current state at the universities. After all, it is really worrying that high school students participate in a discussion on quotas, that the high school does not represent the interests of students at universities, but basically argues Party-politically and rather represents the interests of their party, rather than the interests of the students. This is worrying from my point of view, and that is why One must reform the high school law: You have to re-establish these basic democratic elements. For example, hearing meetings must be allowed again. For example, I miss the call of high school in the following situations: How can it be that we have an indirect nomerus clausus at the universities? I am thinking, for example, of the economic studies in Innsbruck. It is true that every student gets de facto 1 000 points per semester to speculate on these 1 000 points. That means: A student has to attend seminars, courses, lectures and then set these 1,000 points, which he has fictitiously available, on different courses, with the result – and there are many students who don't understand this system at all – that one sets points, in the truest sense speculates, with the result that one has paid the study fee, but can't do a single exam under the line because one has passed because one has set too few points on the courses and on the seminars. This is, please, not a higher education policy! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] And where is there the invocation of high school, which would finally be called upon to reform and change this system urgently once and for all? It cannot be that a student pays for his study and is not even able to complete his studies in a normal period of study. Many of us in here have made a study themselves, and you think back to this great time, where you just took courses, as many as you wanted to prove, and even had the decision about when, in what time you wanted to complete your studies. Unfortunately, this decision no longer has the students, because it really lacks capacity, minimum university standards and facilities as well as staff. That's why I don't understand the non-recognition of high schooling at all! Then: It is indeed necessary to introduce basic democratic elements here. Many of us have now also received a letter from students at the Medical University of Innsbruck. They're right to complain. They have completed the first study and are waiting for internships in part since the winter semester 2005. In other words, they have not been able to continue their regular studies for two years. On the other hand, we have the discussion about quotas and discuss how many percent of foreign students we want to study in our universities. Our task is to continue to grant our students free access to Austrian universities and to create the conditions for them.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11229	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Donnerbauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11250	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I can calm down my previous speaker in this way: They are raising a problem today that our science minister solved weeks ago. [[Abg. May. Hauser: We got the letter three weeks ago!]] It has also expressly thanked the chairman of the high school at the Medical University of Innsbruck for the fact that the Minister of Science Gio Hahn has provided additional internships and thus has in fact solved the problem you rightly raised here. You see how quickly this federal government is able to solve problems – and that is good. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I would just like to take a very brief look at the ÖH legislation, which is now before us, as a lot has already been said about it. It is very important to hold on – and we can all remember the many unconventions on the occasion of the decision-making of this ÖH law, where it has been criticised by various sides, all of which are unconstitutional, anti-democratic, and where it has been predicted that it will not hold –: The Constitutional Court has examined the ÖH law, and – good news! – It's all right! The law is 100% constitutional and therefore democratic, otherwise the Constitutional Court could not have confirmed it. It has only been removed in a small part of the area for formal reasons, and today we will be able to repair God with this decision. Let me, ladies and gentlemen, focus very briefly on the general situation of Austrian universities, particularly in the problem of inflows from neighbouring EU countries, especially from Germany. I think it is very important to maintain – and I hope that we agree – that free access to Austrian universities, to Austrian universities is of great value, an important tradition of the Austrian university system, but that it is not a matter of course, because there are some countries in the EU around us, for example our neighbouring country Germany, where there is no free access to higher education, but a numerus clausus. On the other hand – and that, please, be mindful – it is, as important as free access to higher education is, then, if there is an inflow to individual courses of study, a command of the hour that you create fair, appropriate admission procedures. Because what would be the alternative, ladies and gentlemen? – The alternative would be, additional thousands and thousands of students at equal places of study, because study places cannot be increased at any time in a short time – neither financially nor organisationally – and this with consistently high levels. Therefore, it was important that admission procedures have been introduced for individual study areas where there have been such problems. That was the right, adequate answer. The challenge we are facing now is, of course, to convince them, that this is necessary for the Austrian university system, and that it is also necessary to ensure medical care in Austria in the future. That's our common task. I am already looking forward to this joint task with our Minister for Science Gio Hahn, and I believe that there are good opportunities to convince the European Union, including Brussels.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11293	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Honey. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11314	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We now have several applications: the basic request from the government par­ticulars who are formally responding to the criticism of the VfGH, and among other things one of us Greens, who wants students as democratic co-designers to take seriously again. Ladies and gentlemen! We all regret the political starkness of young people. Renowned youth studies, such as the Shell study, tell us that only more than 30 percent of all young people under 25 are still interested in politics at all! And that means... [[Call the ÖVP:... the Greens!]] No, politics in general is not differentiated at all. – This means established policy, institutional policy, as we present it here. It looks different, however, when it comes to the basic willingness of young people to engage in political activities, to articulate themselves, to work for something that is important to them. I would remind you, for example, of the whaling, the fur production or the protest against the maintenance of the tuition fees by this government. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The ÖH participation was not very high either!]] For this, young people go to the streets, invest time, and they also show commitment. Immediate concern simply arouses interest in very concrete political work. And we politicians should be pleased that we should support this because we need people in this country who are willing to use the opportunity to participate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] We should promote the emergence of democratic consciousness, the existence of democratic spaces wherever we can! – That should be our own interest! The neoliberal economy tries to emancipate us to reduce ourselves to our consumer spirit. And if there are young people who want to put on the other hand a sign that participates, who want to shape democratically, then we should support them. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please consider what signal has been set with the amendment of the High School Act 2004, already with the amendment of the University Law 2002! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: There was a real signal!]] At the time, the decision struck the students' non-obedience – and unfortunately I have to call it that – in front of their feet. Supporting your power interests was more important to you. They are “pumping” on the democratic rights of students. – Unfortunately, that was the message of these changes in the law! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Where do you live?]] I live in Austria, and I have contact with students – you obviously represent the establishment. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] First of all, Mrs Brinek: A particularly humorous note from you, namely the one about the structure of the Chamber of Commerce, that is to say, to give us some sort of democratic example in this regard. – This was really a humorous contribution in this debate. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Is the Chamber of Workers an authoritarian house? Do they also have the direct choice?]] But now there is a chance to fix something, and in this context I have to speak briefly to Mr Broukal, who said: We would have wanted to, but unfortunately, it is not going to happen yet! - That's me, that's not enough for us greens. Do it, please, finally! Do it now, because trust in your announcements, that really only do more fools – and we Greens are certainly not fools, nor do the students in this country! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't get hurt like that! Stay friendly! Don't be so excited!]] Confess to democracy now, support our request – now! – to restore and expand democracy at universities and send a signal! Everyone here in the hall who supports your request today and rejects us – please, everyone and everyone here! – should never again be deluded about the political starkness of young people, because with such decisions you bear the responsibility for it. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's such a short circuit! That can't be!]] Democracy must finally return to the universities! The amendment of the High School Law would be a first possibility. Use it, please agree to our request!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11473	Mrs Oberhauser's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11494	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I do not understand the excitement of the Minister's absence, because what can happen to a better person than to negotiate this issue with two women from interest policy in questions of interest policy? . So, I think we're going to hit quite understanding ears here with our request. [[Congratulations with the ÖVP and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I am quite in agreement with my colleague, Broukal, and think that we can compare what we are doing now – apologise, I come from medicine – about with the acute therapy of the heart attack. That is, we now adhere to the acute lyse – what needs to be followed by the change in the habits of life in order to somehow eliminate the calcification of the arteries becomes a long and hard way. For the Social Democratic Party, I can say that we have not yet completely given up a little change in the living conditions of our coalition partner, so that perhaps we will still be negotiating extremely hard on the issues of passive foreign election rights or also on the questions of direct election of the ÖH representative in the future, because, as we know, the change of living habits sometimes also needs harsh therapies therapies and threatening consequences. I come from interest policy, I come from the Chamber of Doctors, I was a rather passionate interest politician and I also learned that in the course of the Medical Law Novelle – namely, the revision of the electoral order of the Medical Law – I have taken into account the legislative aspects of what the board would like. – No question that the legal review was made that it was seen whether the legal framework conditions were right, but it was already considered how the representation of interest would like to have its election. This is what I am proposing by Mr Zinggl: It is quite clear whether we should not listen to the students, nor leave them the decision, whether or not they want them to be able to hold their elections. That means that we are still in the discussion, and I think what The choice of students should also apply to the choice of doctor's chamber. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] In addition, the question of what the board of doctors would have done if it had insisted that it would not have been involved as a representative of interest in such an important question as the question of what could be used to grant tuition fees. As far as I am aware – and we have left extra questions today – it has still not been possible for the ÖH to be involved in the working group called by Minister Hahn despite massive demands and causes. Not yet! Then: I have not yet given up hope and hope that we will soon be able to say that the representatives of the students' interests will also be involved in this working group. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] The fact that the student representatives we have are quite powerful, I think they have proved that in recent times. The change in internships at the Medical University of Innsbruck, which Minister Hahn did in a really fast time after a request from the Medical University of Innsbruck, shows that we really need to have a strong OH representative on site. That we know exactly that the problem is not a Innsbruck problem, but also a problem in Vienna, the university representatives have also confirmed this in their so to speak thanks to us. And we hope – and we continue to do so – that Minister Hahn will try to solve the same problem in Vienna, too – that after existing SIP 1, that is, partial examination after the first section, colleagues and colleagues for up to two years to continue their studies, he will have to wait to solve this abuse just as quickly as he did in Innsbruck. I think: This is another proof that a strong, strong ÖH representative is absolutely necessary. Ladies and gentlemen, it is, as has been said, a formal vote, a formal amendment. We hope he will find your approval. And – free to Josef Broukal –: In April, we will continue to talk! And I think we will find a solution that will give the ÖH representative what it deserves, namely a strong, legitimate representation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11579	Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11601	Mr President. High house! If Mr Zinggl, the colleague of the Greens, suggests that the students should be asked what representation they would like or how much they would like to do and to what extent they really want to go to the election, then it costs me only a smile and reminds me very much of the debate “Choose with 16” – do we do this or do we not? You know, in the ÖVP this was a long debated question, and I am very glad that we agreed to reduce the electoral age. However, as an argument we have always argued, we could ask the 16-year-olds – and there were also surveys in the final effect – to what extent they would be interested in going or not. The argument of yours was always: When we introduce the election, At the same time, women would have asked whether they wanted to go or not to vote on the right for women, then they would have been against it. There is nothing wrong with questioning those concerned. – The fact that you are now coming up with this argument is really crazy and only shows that nothing else will come to your mind. First point. Second point: I think, Mrs Schatz, also from the Greens, has very comprehensively reported on the extent to which young people are generally politically interested or are just politically perplexed. To quote you, you said: There, where there is a direct concern, interest can also be aroused. – If you look at the election participation in the ÖH elections, you have to say that was precisely why we created direct democracy at the universities. We take this very approach: If I am concerned about something myself at the university, personally, then I am interested in forming it too. That was meaning and purpose of the fact that we carried it out. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I still believe that this is a very good regulation and that it will ensure an optimal representation of students. I also believe that the direct university representation in the final effect ensures more competence. That's where we went, too, we've reworked the budget. So I think the measures have been put in the right direction. In my opinion, the ÖH should also be more committed to a measure that we have taken in the law, namely to evaluate and control what the tuition fees paid for are actually used for. The ÖH would have been able to do this now; as a student, I have never noticed that the ÖH would have spoken really loudly here. I mean, the ÖH should be more focused on those competences she has to represent the students, and not care for the student to consider: What do I really need the ÖH – except that a compulsory contribution is deducted, you don't notice anything anyway? I think that direct democracy is a means of preventing political indifference and giving young people, intellectuals, an opportunity to participate directly.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11649	The next item is the report by Mr Graf. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11670	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! I have yet to speak because I do not want to let two things sit on me; two things that are simply correct so that they do not appear in a public protocol. One is the accusation that three weeks ago I received a letter from the association to build up and promote a national student representation of the colleges and colleges from Mr. Philipp Hense and did not answer for this; and the other, I did not answer the donation request. I've done this in the meantime: I have this letter on 7 July. March, i.e. today, at 5.29 p.m., and it is not possible to make a transfer in such a short time. You told me that you had previously made extra calls to Mr. Hense and he told you that he had sent me three weeks ago and heard nothing from me and he didn't see anything. I am telling you at this point that I will certainly not hand over any money to such a person, for the reason: If these false facts are spread, then this is simply not all right, then he cannot expect my support, namely financial support on this point. - It's easy. I do not think you would act otherwise, Mr Broukal. - Point one. But I do not want to hide on the subject myself either. We have always had a clear, pointed direction and line to forced membership and forced associations. They will never experience that the Freedom Party is building a public law body with compulsory membership at the colleges. That's not our thing! This is a political attitude which we have been adopting for more than 50 years and which we will not give up. Voluntary mergers are all right, are also supportive, not a question – but no forced membership! Not with us, you won't find a majority with us. One more thing: The colleges work excellently. The students study excellently, we only have best descriptions, best grades. It works there essentially in the way it is imagined; unlike other educational institutions. Have you ever considered that this may also work well because there are no compulsory memberships, no general political mandates and the like? [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Maybe the students should focus on their studies. - That's what they're doing there. I do not want to suggest that this is taken differently: The concern is legitimate, but we need to look for a majority to do so – which a new body cannot find in the Freedom Party with compulsory membership, I say. Point two: You said that I would have contributed to this legislation in 2002. [[Abg. Broukal: I said that?]] You said that. I'll tell you: What is on the table today is the novelle 2005 to the High School Law, and I have not contributed to it, even the Freedom Party, as you know. Under my aegide, if I were in Parliament, there would never have been such a law in coalition with the ÖVP. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am consistent in my political orientation and in the things I represent. I wasn't in Parliament. There has been a turn of events which no one has been hidden; today a party separated from us is sitting there, which has joined this demand, and will now also vote in favour, no question. All of these were the reasons why we separated. I do not even let these political opinions, which I have never represented, be they of a political friend or of a political competitor, no matter what. I don't let anyone take my political attitude and opinion and I'll articulate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11734	The next speaker is Mr Mayer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11755	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I will try to get a little shorter, as I am convinced that Mr Broukal wants to say a few things about what Mr Graf said earlier. However, I would like to say right at the beginning of my speech that we Social Democrats would have been quite prepared to change the high school and high school law 1998 further than we do today. Mr Broukal rightly pointed out that it was the FPÖ, who at the time was stunned exactly what we want to criticize today and change over the longer term. You can't put off these original sins, Mr. Graf. If you were not there yourself, Mr Graf, it was your FPÖ, then BZÖ. [[Abg. Strache: Today's BZÖ it was!]] [[Abg. Street: Let's stick to the truth!]] Today is you Your former clubman got away again, so it's hard to assign exactly who's part of your group, but You can't put this original sin away completely. For the situation to be so, you have essential responsibility – as a FPÖ; not you as a person, but as a FPÖ. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to say quite frankly to you that I personally see no reason why the high schooling cannot determine for itself how its representatives are elected: Workers' representatives, employers' representatives, representatives of agriculture, representatives of the doctor's chamber – we heard it before – can all decide for themselves how their representatives and representatives are elected. Why should this not be possible for our students? I must admit, with our coalition partner was no longer to be reached in the short of time. We all know what it would have meant that today's high school law would not be amended: There could be simply no high school elections. Without high school elections, there would be no official lawyers we need at the universities who perceive the concerns and concerns of the students. The concerns and desires of the high school have increased dramatically in recent years and have not become less. I recall the problem areas of tuition fees, scholarships or the Studienförderungsgesetz. I am pleased, by the way, that the proposals and initiatives of our scientific speaker Josef Broukal are expressly welcomed by the Austrian University School. I also remember the fight for courses and deficits in the application mode. The “Standard” for example, in his last issue, under the heading “Wartsnake in front of the course course” wrote: “Semester start: the hardest time up to the first tests. The fight for the courses decides the smoother modem, luck or chance. Fairness remains on the track.” Of the 1 000-point model we have already heard today, also in other areas. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, at peak times at the Economic Union, 4,000 students are trying to register at the same time. Server collapses occur again and again, and students stay on the track. Computer random decisions make students increasingly despair. It always happens that they lose one to two semesters through this course course. The problem list of our students was almost endless. The obsolete libraries at some universities, the missing learning places for students and so on and so on. So you see, ladies and gentlemen, our students need more than ever a functioning representation. That is why we now decide on the present amendments to the High School Law so that the high school elections can take place in a timely manner and that our students have their democratically elected representatives. I am good things that, after a certain period of intervention, the new Minister of Science can also be convinced – we hope it goes faster than many here suspect – that our students are able to determine for themselves how they want to choose their representatives. I mean – in conclusion – we also need to respect the right of self-management with our students. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11816	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Karl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11838	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Grünewald, Mr Zinggl and Mr Schatz should at last note that the accusations they have made today have already been examined in detail by the Constitutional Court. What was the result of this observation of 4. October 2006? – Of the seven paragraphs of § 35a of the High School and High School Law, six paragraphs were recognized for constitutional conformity and only paragraph 4 was repealed for breach of the decree. In view of the criticism of the indirect election, the Constitutional Court has stated, for example, that the legislator is able to ensure that the democratic legitimacy of those self-administrative bodies to which important tasks have been delegated can be guaranteed further legal scope. There are therefore no constitutional concerns against the indirect organ order provided for in § 35a HSG under the democratic principle or with regard to the principle of equality. The Constitutional Court was also unable to see the circumcision of democratic rights that you, my colleague, treasure. The possible deviation from the exact proportional distribution of the mandates in the Federal Office was also criticized. Before you practice criticism here, you have to look at exactly what these deviations are due to. They are due to the fact that each educational institution with more than 1 000 students is to have at least one mandate in the Federal Office. This means that these deviations are due to the fact that as many universities and academies as possible are to be represented in the Federal Office. The Constitutional Court has therefore recognised the contested rules for factual justification. Mr Zinggl's claim to equality was also quite different from that of the Constitutional Court. From the point of view of equality, it is inconceivable that students at universities may be entitled to choose the university's representatives at several universities. Nor is there any doubt that at the level of the Federal Office, the ÖH, the interests of such students per university, which they belong to, are thus represented several times. In other words, there are no constitutional concerns here. Finally, I would like to take a very brief look at the proposal for a recast of § 35a. As has already been explained by Mr Darmann, This change is therefore important because it will also enable the small representative bodies or the students studying at a small university or academy to participate indirectly in the choice of the federal representative of the students. So if representation is a concern not only for you as many as possible, but also for small universities and academies in the federal representation of students, then you should vote in favour of this request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11886	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Hakl. Also 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11907	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! A necessary adaptation of the law to the requirements of the supreme courts is made, that is good - in fact, the concerns, interests and the needs of the students are completely different. On the one hand, we still do not have a long-term sustainable regulation as regards the regulation of the admission of German students to medical studies. In this context, I should like to thank our Minister for Science very much, because he has abolished an abuse at Innsbruck University over the desire of some students. There it was very, very difficult to get internships, there were long waiting times – something no one can wish for. People who are in the middle of their studies have to wait one or two years for another internship. We need to be aware of the cause that this has ever happened. These were the first storms you couldn't be prepared for, Dr. Grünewald, because you always say you could have done this before. The storm was irregular in the first year, and we're still taking this bag with us today. [[President Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also far too short to simply say – as Mr Broukal has done several times in the past – that: Let's open the universities more, more trainers, let's open them up to everyone! – Medical studies have certain special features compared to other studies. It is not only about staff, nor is there unlimited staff available in the same quality, it is also about the fact that at the same time university teachers are mostly still active in the clinical subjects, want to be active and have to be active. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] Always, in clinical subjects; there are no clinical subjects, Professor. In the clinical subjects, this is the case. This also requires patient numbers to have good research results, which are accordingly high. You can't divide that at any rate, on any number of teachers, on any number of researchers. Much earlier, in preclinical subjects, bottlenecks arise. Example Sewing Courses. Even today, it is necessary that someone do away with his body after his death of science, so that a body can be sickened. There are already bottlenecks: There are no unlimited number of paving places for the students. We're not such a big country, and we can't increase our patient numbers for more universities. I would like to talk briefly about a subject that is very important to me: A misunderstanding that already exists – that is also the case of the Federal Minister Kdolsky – is that at Innsbruck University, for example, we have almost only German professors. This is not because these German professors are so much better than Austrian professors, but because they get together in huge clinics with, of course, a lot more patients and a lot more colleagues, because they are researching together – or not – and are participating in the research and that is, of course, much easier in large units than in our necessarily much smaller ones. Although we do not always get the very best, but of course German doctors at universities, I believe that at least a misunderstanding has already occurred in Innsbruck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11960	The last speaker in this debate was Mr Broukal. 1 minute of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e11981	Mrs Mag. Hakl, it's very easy: There are things that were not yet possible in the Scientific Committee two months ago, because Mr Hahn's predecessor would have always said that they have their money, which must be done with it, these are just management errors. – How many years have we heard that! Fortunately, we now have an ÖVP minister who says: Management error? - Not at all. I'll go, I'll handle it, I'll do it. So it's not about bodies, it's about sedentary places, it's about the good will that missed up to two months ago, and now God is present in the person of the Minister, Hahn. Mr Graf, I have to admit – and I also wish to say this publicly: I have asked my staff to call on those people who are organizing the conference of the technical universities to ask him if he has written to you and whether he has already received an answer or a donation from you. He said first, he wrote you, and second, he didn't get a donation. You're now presenting me – and I want to believe this – that this is a smart brush that spoke to my employee and then sent the mail. Nevertheless, you should be able to answer financially in three hours by telebanking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12021	Mrs Federal Minister Kdolsky spoke. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12042	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for the interesting discussion. The present proposal, which constitutes a repair of this law, was necessary in the short term in order not to endanger the democratic possibility of an OH election. The points that have been discussed here today, the right of foreigners to vote, the choice of letters, e-voting – you know that there is already a technical examination of the situation and that there is already the basis of the law in force – but also more rights for the ÖH will be discussed together in the context of an already remembered novel. – It has also been discussed today that we need to discuss the involvement of pedagogical universities. [[Abg. Broukal: Listen, hear!]] A decision-making process will take place before the summer of 2007. I believe that I have been able to provide you with some information in the representation of the Federal Minister Gio Hahn.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12079	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in paragraph 26 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and therefore majority accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – The draft law has been adopted by a majority of the third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Greenewald, colleagues in the field of higher education law. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Graf, colleagues, on the revision of the Higher Education Act in 1998. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[20:05:50]] 4. Point Report of the Foreign Policy Committee on the Government Template (11 e.g._Other Organiser Federal Act amending the Consular Fees Act 1992 (32 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12159	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We'll start with the debate. The first speaker to speak is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12189	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This amendment of the Consular Fees Act concerns the implementation of a European Council decision of 1 January 1990. June 2006, according to which the visa fees for travel in countries of the European Union are increased from outside €35 to €60 – almost double, by 70 percent. This does not apply to all states. Originally it was planned for everyone, but then there were some negotiations. Russia and Ukraine are excluded from this increase as there are visible note agreements with these two countries. There is a transitional arrangement for the countries of the so-called Western Balkans, South-East Europe – Albania, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia – until the end of 2007. Until then they pay only 35 €. What happens if the various association agreements are not concluded by then is completely unclear. They probably have to pay 60 € anyway. What does that mean? – That people who, for example, want to visit relatives in Austria – especially or very strong people from Turkey – because 20 percent of all foreigners living in Austria are people from Turkey – must pay €60 for visiting relatives in Austria if they get the visa at all. Imagine how much that is! Imagine, you're financially not good and don't have enough money! [[Abg. Scheibner: What's the price of the ticket?]] Mr Scheibner, this is exactly what we are talking about. There are already the relatives who save together so that they can afford the visit, and then it costs another amount that some do not even deserve in one month. I think this is a variant of how the then Federal Government – and with the current decision the current Federal Government – says – and FPÖ and BZÖ will certainly like to agree to this – one wants to have as few foreigners in Austria as possible, and if, they should pay even more expensive for it – if they do so at all, because the situation in the consulates and the embassies where the visa is to be obtained is anything but simple. [[Abg. Scheibner: Because 30 € do not come from foreigners now? - Please go!]] We know from reports of long waiting times, from people who once have to go, then they are told that they have to come back with new documents, and that a few times. All of this costs – it also costs time – all of this does not really make sense or the possibility of actually visiting a country of the European Union much bigger. So this is a step in the direction, only those who can afford it should visit Austria. But it also becomes more difficult for tourists and tourists. Of course you can say that if someone booked a ski holiday in Austria, he or she must have money anyway. But still: It has the impression – and so it has been negotiated in the context of the EU at that time – that it should cost more because we have a high level of administrative effort. – That’s right, but people just have to pay a lot more for it. I think that is very difficult. That is one of the reasons why we do not agree. A second is that although it is now more in this template that individual groups can be exempt from the payment of this fee, there are fewer groups that are automatically exempt. For example, earlier were automatically exempted: Participants – probably also female participants, but this is not in the law – in religious, scientific, artistic, cultural, political and sporting events taking place in Austria, when reciprocity is guaranteed. – It can be decided from the innovation whether or not they are released. - All of this creates uncertainties. A second area is that, for example, children up to 12 years of age have been exempt from these fees – now only more children up to six years of age. This does not really increase the likelihood that children can travel to Austria. These are all the measures that will help to reduce the number of visits to Austria and other EU countries. I remember that last year – which was still during the Austrian Presidency – the massive criticism came from the Greens and also from numerous civil society organisations that Austria has set a priority for the Western Balkans, for the states of south-eastern Europe, but that these would also be very likely to have to pay 60 €. It has then succeeded that they are not present – as has been said, they only have to pay €35 by the end of the year – but also the €35 for people, for poor people especially from these areas, which is very difficult to afford. In addition, circumstances – as mentioned earlier – are how long waiting times to go again and again, and not knowing whether you get the visa, not exactly something that contributes to the fact that you can actually visit your relatives or acquaintances in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Scheibner.]] Another thing that applies especially to the countries of south-eastern Europe, the states of the former Yugoslavia: By 1990, the citizens of these states were able to travel almost all the world without the need for a visa, and all of Europe anyway. They can't have that since 1990. Can you imagine what that means for young people who may want to see what this Europe, which is always being set before them, really means? They hardly have a chance to visit this Europe, and if there are measures, as the Foreign Minister in the Committee said, to make things easier for students, then is that good and beautiful, but do you know what it was about? – To remove the visa requirement for all states of the Western Balkans! And why? – Among the young people in particular, there are many who are simply at risk of joining nationalist movements in the mood that exists in these countries – not something that we as the European Union should actually promote. [[Abg. Scheibner: And that only because of the visa fees!Unknown term type: "%s".?]] Something that helps against this is actually to travel and get to know other states. We should allow this and not prevent or make it difficult for people to travel through such measures as this increase in fees. – It should not be in a wider Europe than this European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12270	The next item is Mr Grossruck's speech for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12291	Madam President. Estimated Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Lunacek, you have not brought anything new, which you have not already said in committee, and you simply do not address the arguments that have been put forward at all. You ignore these. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unfortunately, unfortunately!]] You run a policy of ignorance, because we can still make such a great effort to explain why it is necessary to amend the Consular Fees Act – you simply don't see it. You see this from your point of view, criticize everything and design horror scenarios, who could or could not come in from anyone we all want to prevent. – That is fundamentally wrong! Leave the church in the village! You know that we have to decide on a Council decision. In fact, the law already had 1. ==References====External links== We are a little later on and do nothing but all the other Member States of the European Union too, namely to establish a uniform system of consular charges. But now you know exactly that there are, of course, exceptions. If you have not read the bill, I will inform you: There are exceptions for children under 6 years of age, students, students, postgraduate students and accompanying teachers on a trip for study or training purposes, third-country researchers within the meaning of the recommendation and so on, beneficiary third-country nationals. The fee for applying for and granting visas may be waived in individual cases when applying for a visa for students and scholarships at Austrian universities and universities as well as at the Diplomatic Academy, for foreigners regarding their scientific activity in research and teaching, for participants in religious, scientific, artistic, cultural, political and sporting events in Austria, where mutuality is ensured, for participants in exchange activities for children including accompanying persons, for participants in events to promote economic relations with abroad, for members of war victims buried in Austria and so on. So there is a wealth of exceptions that contradict exactly what you say: that one cannot afford to travel to Austria. If he comes to reason, then he can afford it, then there are many exceptions, but if you now submit, one cannot come to Austria because he cannot pay the 60 € consular fees, then I will make you aware that always checking whether the financial basis is given when someone comes to Austria. It's not supposed to be that someone comes to the country and has no money. Then he comes to the communities or wherever he comes and asks for support as it happens often, and we also give them because we believe we need to help, but that cannot be the access to this Consular Fees Act. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to remind you, however, that a single visa regime is currently being developed in Europe, which should enable young people from Serbia and similar countries to come to Austria without visas. It is good that they also get to know Europe. If we want them to become Europe-ripe, they have to get to know that too. I should like to ask Mr Winkler, Secretary of State, to be active in this area too, so that a solution can be reached as soon as possible. Let's leave the church in the village! Mrs Lunacek, do not dramatize, but let us take it as we do many other laws, as a follow-up to what European standards are! Coming to the end: Madam President, I would have prepared a four-liner, but I do not say this out of respect for your presidency, I will bring it once if you do not have the chair. A four-liner I would have – respect for the Presidency prevents me.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12340	It's a shame, Mr. Deputies. – Next, Mr Heinzl. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12361	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The increase in visa fees is really significant, and I would like to give Mrs Lunacek the right to criticise them. However, this new regulation, which has already been stressed, is based on a decision of the EU Council of June 2006, and this decision of the EU Council is therefore easy to implement from Austria – as well as from all other EU Member States. However, I would like to highlight positively the exceptions to the payment of the visa fee created in this novel, namely the application for a visa for children under 6 years of age, for students, students, postgraduate students, accompanying teachers in the course of a trip for study and training purposes – in all these circumstances you will receive a visa free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Furthermore, the amount of the fee to be collected may be issued in individual cases in accordance with national law, or may be reduced if this serves the promotion of cultural, foreign policy, development policy or other significant public interests or – which is also very important – humanitarian reasons. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Let me also take account of the revision of the Consular Fee Act to address to you some related questions relating to the Government Convention. The Government Agreement between SPÖ and ÖVP provides for an appreciation of consular work as a consequence of the visa scandal and sets the goal of making the Federal Ministry of European and International Affairs a service company for citizens, business and politics. – This objective is very welcome. I hope that these tasks will be handled quickly and that, for example, the opening hours of the Consulates will be made more service-oriented. The establishment of its own contact point for suspicion of abuse and for complaints also seems useful to me. Another point would be the implementation of the long-term expansion of the cooperation of the Schengen partner countries, for example in the form of a common visa office. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group will vote in favour of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12410	Next, Mr. Dr. In short, for 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12434	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The purpose of this template is to increase the fees for certain categories of visas. The reason is the increased administrative costs that can easily be taken into account. This new regulation, which was also mentioned, goes back to a decision of the Council of the European Union of 1. ==References== The visa fees of category A, B and C are to be increased from €35 to €60. In our opinion, this is quite reasonable and not reasonable to anyone. The rapid implementation of this measure is important for the Austrian representative authorities abroad. Indeed, it is expected that the maintenance of old lower visa fees would lead to an increase in the application of the representative authorities of those States that carry out the implementation of the Council decision late or even too late. This could lead to an overburdenment of our messages and external representations, which we do not want as a liberal. That is why we as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be voting in favour of this proposal. However, I am also referring to a subject that also concerns the representation of Austrian interests abroad – in concrete terms in Slovenia – and I specifically address the Austrian-Slovene cultural agreement, which was also an issue at the meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee. This bilateral agreement was brought into the house by Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, and it took about three-quarters of a year until the Slovenian side ratified this agreement. This bilateral agreement, ladies and gentlemen, should end the discrimination against the Austrian minority in Slovenia, and it was also a first step towards the equal treatment of the former German under-privilegeds with the Hungarian and also with the Italian minority in the Slovenian state. The history is known to you all: In 1919, after Saint Germain's dictatorship of peace, the lower side of Austria was separated. In the state to which it was struck, namely the SHS state, it is then equal in the 1920s of the 20th century. ==References====External links==* Official website At that time, it still had a strength of about 100,000 people. In and after the Second World War, what Austrian radio recently described as “Flee and Expulsion” came to be very effective. It was presented as a thousandfold murder, which has also taken place in the Lower Styria in today's Slovenia – in the death camps of cloths, but also in Sternthal. The legal basis for this genocide was the communist-titoist AVNOJ laws. – This was the partisan legislation, which not only served to liquidate its ideological opponents – the Chetniks, the Ustaschi, the Domobranzen – but also, of course, not only against the class enemy, but also against the “people enemies” – and to this the German people group counted according to the Titopartisans’ assessment. These AVNOJ laws were the counterpart to the Czech Beneš decrees. During a visit to the Czech President Václav Havel Vienna has at least once apologised for these mass crimes, while expressing his regret, there has not yet been any such statements to the Austrian policy of the Slovenian side. Such an explanation has not come from the former Tito-Communist rulers, nor later from the democratically changed Slovenian politicians. So I'm holding on: The Austrian-Slovene cultural agreement has not improved the situation of the Austrian peoples' group in Slovenia. These remains of a people's group today have only the strength of officially 2,000 to 2,500 people, and according to official estimates, there will be about 3,600 people in the Slovenian state, who are so to speak denied international recognition as a national minority. The project-related funding of some €10,000, mentioned by the Federal Minister Dr. Plassnik at the meeting of the Foreign Policy Committee, which has flown to associations such as ‘bridges’, is by no means comparable to the generous support experienced by national minorities, such as the Carinthian Slovenians, but also the Burgenian Croatians in Austria. I have a quote from a person concerned – one cannot say, an old Austrian, because she was already born in Slovenia, but that is the chairman of the “Culture Association of German Women – Bridges” – brought to the situation of the Germans in Slovenia. - She was asked: "The Italians and the Mad years are recognised in the Constitution as a minority. Is that the same for the German People's Group?" Mrs. Haring said literally: “No, we are the only German minority group in south-eastern Europe that is not recognised. For Slovenia, this means that ‘there is no such thing as us’. We're not here, and if we say something, they say, “You do not live in a closed settlement area, you live scattered in Slovenia.” This is a consequence of the Germans being murdered, expelled and assimilated after 1945. It is a real cynicism when the Slovenians now say that we do not exist or accuse us of living scatteredly in Slovenia." Ladies and gentlemen, this proves very strongly that the cultural agreement on Weitem did not bring about what it had been announced. I ask the Austrian Federal Government – and that is the final sentence: When will you, Mr State Secretary, when will you, Mrs Federal Minister, address the representation of our national minorities abroad as dynamically as the Hungarian government has been doing for decades in the case of Romania, but also in the case of Slovakia?
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12535	Next, Mr Scheibner. You'd like to talk 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12556	If you want, a little shorter too, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template was still submitted by the government of Schüssel-Gorbach. That alone would be an indication that this is a good template. But this is not the only reason for our agreement – nor is it that, in this case, an EU template or a decision by the European Union is not a negative one that should be used as an excuse, but a sensible measure to cover increased administrative costs in this consular area. The Greens' argument, which we have already discussed in the Committee, Mrs Lunacek, is the following: I always listen to you very carefully, and if you say something reasonable – that is also happening – then of course I perceive and use these arguments. But in this case it is a bit strange to argue that because of this approximately €30 extra effort now suddenly hundreds, thousands of people can no longer come to Austria. Mrs Lunacek, you have then mixed all of this a little bit, and you have said that these people have to do their job. – They also have to do if it costs 30 €! [[Abg. May. Lunacek: That makes it even more difficult!]] – I am right that you could be a little more generous with the visa requirement at the time of the Western Balkans. But you know very well that this is really an EU matter. On the other hand, we would have liked to see a more restrictive visa requirement in some countries. But – and I tell you that quite clearly – if someone cannot afford this 30 €, once in addition to the visa, then the question really arises: How's he or she coming to Austria? – Because the plane costs something, the train costs something, the car costs something; on foot they all won’t go. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] How does he or she go to Austria? 30 €: Mr. Parnigoni, do you know if this is a hotel now, if that's the food? - Maybe he'll be there for a day or two days. What does this guy live on? And if he or she doesn't have 30 € to take care of himself here, the question is: How then? Mrs Lunacek, all this should be enough to say: This cannot be an argument to reject this proposal but, on the contrary, it is reasonable that increased administrative burden should also be paid accordingly. That is why we will, of course, give our consent to this proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12599	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12620	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It has been pointed out by all speakers that this amendment to the Consular Fees Act implements European Community law. That's what we're obliged to do! We have no other choice at all, and as has already been mentioned, we are already a little too late. We have an interest in the fact that the others are not stingy, and therefore we should not continue to be stingy. But I think we should consider what is the background to this decision by the General Affairs Council on the increase in visa fees and how the debate in the Council has ended. The vast majority in the Council considered that the increases in the administrative burden which have undoubtedly occurred should also be paid for financially. On the other hand, there has been relatively little resistance. It was Austria – with a few other countries – which pointed out that it would meet precisely those countries with which we as the European Union and with those with Austria has a privileged relationship, which has also been made the subject of a priority in Austrian foreign policy. A relatively long process of conviction has taken place until the other countries have agreed to make certain exceptions, not only to those States with which agreements have already been signed or initialled, but also to those with which visa facilitation agreements are to be concluded. These are precisely the states of the Western Balkans, i.e. those states which are also a priority in the Austrian foreign policy of the previous government, this government and, I believe, undisputed, also in this House. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] It is therefore, I believe, to welcome the fact that precisely those countries with which we have particularly close relations are excluded from this increase. I can assure Mrs Lunacek that it is the goal – I am not a prophet, I cannot say whether that will be the case, but it is the goal, and Austria will be committed to it – that this non-increasing, this amount of €35, will continue to be in the future, beyond the end of this year. Austria has – and I can assure Mr Großruck that Austria will, of course, be committed to doing so – every interest in the fact that specific visa facilitations are being agreed with the states of the Western Balkans. The point is that the procedures for the bureaucratic conditions are such that people, especially young people, are made easier to see so that they can travel in Europe. It is, as I say, quite right to Mrs Lunacek, shocking that 70 percent of the Serbian population have never been in their lives abroad. I also say one thing - the foreign minister has already said this on several occasions - that I have already said it publicly: At the end of the day, the European perspective also includes the vision of a general freedom of travel in this larger European area! This is not realistic at the moment, I think we just have to see that, and we have to admit that. Mrs Lunacek, it has also been criticised that the individual examination, which has not yet been included in the law, will continue to make the proceedings more difficult. This is not the case, Mrs Deputies. It is true that it was not included in the current law, but the existing legal system of the European Union has already led the visa acceptance agencies to carry out individual audits here. So, I can assure you, I have asked myself very carefully, it will not change anything in this practice as far as the privileged groups are concerned. Finally, I would like to say that Austria is also very initiative and very active when it comes to future simplifications, facilitation and protection against visa abuse: This also includes the common visa acceptance points mentioned in the debate. It is absolutely right that it is absurd that, for example in Kiev, each single message has long snakes. Sometimes the snakes are a little shorter, sometimes a little longer, depending on how it speaks around, who is just giving a visa a little faster or where a visa is a bit easier to get. This is also in the interest of the fight against visa abuse, Mr Heinzl, and I can assure you that many of the measures addressed in the government agreement are not only under way but have already been implemented in part. We're working very seriously on it. We also agreed with the Vice-President of the Frattini Commission that the The idea of a general visa acceptance agency, a common acceptance body, is being further driven forward. In the meantime, we are following this idea together with our partners. We do this with Hungary, we do it with Germany, we do it with a number of other countries. In any case, we are trying to organise bilaterally common visa acceptance points, ultimately in the interests of the citizens of Europe, who want to travel fully within Europe. I would therefore like to thank the House for its great approval of the Consular Fees Act in this House. It's necessary. But there will be no deterioration for travellers or those who are willing to make efforts to travel to Europe. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12699	Mrs Mag. Mag. has now been mentioned in the debate. Hakl. She wants to talk for 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12720	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I feel called upon to replicate Mrs Lunacek very briefly, as she has put this Consular Fees Act a little in the corner: Well, that's what we're doing now. The evil government simply grants visas for children no longer for up to 12 years free, but up to six. I'd like to say that fees always cover an effort of the state. That's legitimate. We did not have this effort earlier because the children up to twelve could be registered in the passports of the parents! That's why they didn't have their own passport, there was also no need for their own visa visibility. This is now no longer permitted in the EU, and younger children must also have a passport. As a result, the view notes must be affixed accordingly. In almost all the examples mentioned by you, by mutual agreement, through the promotion of third-country nationals, are either already concluded or supported in very short-term preparation, at EU level and, of course, by each of us. So I can't see the negative effects, I think it's also legitimate that an administration with fees covers a part of the effort it has incurred – no more is it – and I'm particularly pleased about the reliefs for researchers, students and the whole science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12756	As the last speaker in the debate, Mr Gahr, too, spoke with a three-minute voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12778	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It is not about this adjustment that we do not want foreigners to join us. Nor is it a question of visiting us – as Mr Lunacek has said – and it is not a question of preventing people's travel, but it is a matter of simply implementing an EU legislative. Administrative costs are increasing in all areas, and I believe that it is also justified and justified that there is a certain degree of adjustment. The expected Of course, funds of € 4.7 million are used in the administration and are not used for other purposes. It is therefore not logical that the Greens do not agree with this novel. There are exceptions in individual cases and also in general cases. It is true that, in my opinion, it concerns mainly the groups that need it: Student exchange groups, members of war victims in Austria, participants in sports events and also students and trainees. This legislative initiative must be implemented in all Schengen countries. Austria is in arrears, and I believe it is a matter of our acting today and of being here in the European context. Cost truth, cost transparency, cost reasonableness are also a command of the hour for us in politics. That is why I invite the Greens to agree as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12817	The last speaker in this debate is Mr Murauer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12838	Minister! Mr State Secretary! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the Consular Fees Act has most often been said that there is an EU decision that there are a number of exceptions that are very, very reasonable, that there is not only an automatic one, but that one must already prove who gets a corresponding exception. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not yet from you!]] Interestingly, we are talking about 400 000 visa applications every year: 400 000, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with our officials in the foreign ministers, consulates or visa authorities. On this occasion I would also like to thank them. I would like to say that these visa exhibitions, these visa allocations, are not entirely without control: It is important that we be controlled! Although you have to do it then and when to get a visa, we also had discussions in this House where you have complained that perhaps too little had been controlled and that you would easily have given visas. We can be sure – and we should be sure – that this control works and that the abuse is largely stopped. I would like to mention that the Western Balkans countries have been particularly taken into account here. It was quite a merit of our two ministers – the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of the Interior, who unfortunately died so suddenly – that the security partnership with these countries was agreed. Of course, this security partnership also has a opposite side. If we have special conditions – and a goal is the exemption of fees, the exemption of visas, the granting of travel freedom for Europeans – this also means a readmission agreement on illegals, criminals, tractors and traffickers as an opposite, so that we also receive a counter-performance in this security partnership. Again: The visa fees have certainly been raised properly. The aim is that travel freedom can be introduced for the Balkan countries as soon as possible. Austria will, of course, strive to do so. We want this bill to be approved.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12876	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. This means that we can vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 11 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who will also give their approval to this draft law at third reading to give a sign. – This, in turn, happens in a majority way. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:44:58]] 5. Point Report by the Committee on Economic and Industrial Affairs on Amendment 114/A by Mr Karlheinz Kopf, Mr Kurt Eder, Mr President, on a Federal Act amending the Eco electricity Act (35 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12934	We're on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are going straight into the debate. I give the floor to Mrs Lichtenecker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e12962	Madam President. Mr. Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It's not been ten hours since: Today, many of the speakers have stressed the importance of climate protection. Realising climate change always means substantially strengthening two pillars: One is energy efficiency and energy savings, the other is to force the eco electricity, renewable energies. In 2006, a revision of the eco electricity law has taken place, which has brought huge disadvantages precisely to this important branch. On the one hand, the innovation that is now under way has an adjustment in itself, and the other is de facto a move to funds, a time-limit for a power-heat coupling plant to enter, based on fossil energies – which we do not, in principle, consider to be the right energy policy access! That means, of course, that innovation will not receive our approval in this consequence. But it is a matter of general discussion on what energy supply should look like. Energy supply is an important area for the economy – Mr. Eder will certainly be able to confirm that – it is important to be supplied, safe to be supplied, decentralized and as self-sufficient as possible. Of course, renewable energies play a central role here. Investing in renewable energy also means enjoying great opportunities in the economy and creating jobs. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] However, it is also said to be independent of suppliers, whether it be suppliers of gas, or such of oil. We have often experienced what this can mean for the economy. If you look at economic history, especially the period of the seventies, when it was an oil shortage and an incredible price- increased, then you see that this has had a very, very negative impact on the economy: Price drivers, unemployment has increased; all this is something we do not want. It is therefore necessary to look to be supplied in the country and to put the energy supply as far as possible on these new legs, namely, to drive energy efficiency and to force energy savings, on the other hand to increase renewable energy. However, the framework conditions must be agreed. One of the most important things in this area is the Ecostrom Act. We believe that there is a need for a total reform, and we very much regret that it is not possible to implement a model according to the German model in Austria. The German Renewable Energy Act has been very successful, so successful that it has already copied 42 countries, including countries such as India and China. It is particularly positive that this also created 200 000 jobs. This is an excellent story, which makes it quite clear that you write black numbers with green ideas! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In our opinion, a total reform of the eco electricity law requires a planning and investment security for these companies. This means reducing the level of security, i.e. extending the duration of the aid, i.e. increasing feed rates and, of course, adapting them to technological progress. These are many points which we unfortunately miss, but which we do not tire out to move forward and demand. It is also regrettable that neither the EDP nor the SPÖ sees the great opportunities that lie in renewable energies. On the contrary, a climate adjustment strategy is being developed, which provides for a massive expansion of foreign projects, these JI/CDM projects, and also for the use of resources. If you look at the projects, which is what they are, then they are like wind farms in China or hydropower plants in New Zealand. There is already the question of whether or not international solidarity is discussed again and again – China is in the best way to become economic power, New Zealand has European standards –: Why the engagement there? Why not go here and invest here? Meanwhile, it is over € 280 million that flow into this area. We believe that it is good to leave this value added in Austria and create jobs here. This opinion has also been mandated by the SPÖ in this form, such as Ulli Sima, Vienna SPÖ Environment Councillor, in the “Standard”: “However, the Austrian economy has much more of an investment in domestic climate protection,” they can be quoted. Or Petra Bayrin of a 19th APA broadcast. February: ‘Climate strategy must have teeth’ – in the case of domestic climate initiatives, value added in the foreground’. Here is the question: Why do they have an opinion and then act differently? – That is why we make you an option and today we make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Ladies and gentlemen, in terms of climate change, the economy and job creation, I would like to ask you to accept this proposal in this form.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13077	Mr Ruperta Lichtenecker's request, ladies and gentlemen, has been properly submitted and is therefore fully supported. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13181	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. He would like to talk for 4 minutes on the topic of ecostrom. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13203	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The promotion of green electricity in Austria, which we united at the federal level over five years ago, is a single success story! With the Eco electricity Act 2002, with which we have set ourselves a modest goal – from today’s point of view – to produce 4 percent of the electricity – of course apart from hydropower – from renewable energy sources, we have already far exceeded this target and have landed at 7 percent eco electricity. [[Abg. May. Kogler: How do you explain that in Vorarlberg...?]] For this we have also taken some money into account, namely, that we have made concrete support commitments over the entire duration of €3 billion. Through this early exploitation or achievement of the target, we have made a revision in 2006 – must do! . because the early achievement of the objective has not made the award regulation renewable to the Minister. We have given him the basis for a new funding with the 2006 amendment. With this law we will reach 10 percent eco electricity and add this 3 billion € to the funding volume in addition 1 billion €. So, in total, we come to a funding volume of more than €4 billion! Mrs Lichtenecker, if you compare this with the 280 million measures you mentioned abroad: I am speaking here of 4 billion we have already fixed and promised for the eco electricity! [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: That's good!]] I think in order to achieve our climate objectives, we will have to do both: We will need to support meaningful projects abroad as much as we do on environmental promotion – this is something that has not yet been done here! – promote projects in the country and also eco electricity. If you put the amount that we have used so far for the JI/CDM program and what we have already promised here, in this generous volume, in relation, then that, I think, is in a very reasonable relationship to each other. But one thing said here, Mrs. Lichtenecker: At the time, they said no to the 3 billion for eco-electric production. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: I'm not yet!]] You are now so far as to praise the Ecostrom Act 2002 very much, although you have rejected it at the time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Sburny.]] You said no again to the 1 billion in addition last year; you said no again. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Here you can assess how bad this is now!]] If you follow what your learning curve is like, then I assume that in two, three years' time you will praise the novelle again in retrospect; that is a legitimate conclusion. [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: If you keep making it worse, that can be already!]] What we are doing today is correcting two mistakes in the legal structure. If we would not do so, Ökostrom AG would not be able to pay out its funding. They say no again! You say no to the 3 billion, you say no to the 1 billion, you now say no to repair without which we could not pay out to the promoters at all. So I really can't understand you! A success story of eco electricity promotion, and you only think of it: no. - Shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13319	Next item is the report by Mr Themessl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13340	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I would like to say to Mr Karlheinz Kopf: If the 2002 Ecostrom Act was so good that you had achieved these goals a year before your own deadline, I wonder why you have drastically deteriorated it last year with the new legislative novel. It has now become a law on which one of your honorary party colleagues – none other than former Commissioner Franz Fischler, in the meantime president of the Eco-Social Forum – has clearly answered in a broadcast of the "Tyrol daily" to the question of whether he had considered the Austrian Eco-Strom Act to be an intelligent solution: This is the “perversion” of what it should actually achieve. This says a lot because it says a man like Dr. Franz Fischler, who was five years Minister of Agriculture and ten years Commissioner of the European Union, and who, among other things, also worked very intensively on such issues. That's probably meaningful, and I think that says enough! But Franz Fischler goes a lot further: He not only says that it is a “perversion of what it is about”, but he also says: Under the Eco electricity Act, ‘thermal power couplings operated with natural gas are promoted’. If you want to change the eco electricity law, you also have to put on the levers here. This is exactly the criticism that we have. Because in an eco electricity law – the emphasis lies on “ecostrom”! – it cannot be that we are promoting gas power plants! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Look, Mr Kopf, this is exactly the point: This is clearly an event legislation. In addition, your party colleague Franz Fischler is also of the opinion, as he is in an APA issue of 27. He's got a very clear statement on Feber: ‘It is not possible for a law to be changed only because a gas power plant was built too early and therefore does not fall within the support regime.’ Fischler is quite clearly opposed to a so-called event legislation. And nothing else was it when you remember: In 2006, when you corrected this law with a novel, it was a deal between you and the SPÖ that they wanted to send millions of funding to the mayor of Vienna for this gas power plant Simmering. You used the SPÖ at the time to get a two-thirds majority for this legislative novel in Parliament. That is exactly the occasion, and that is why we are rejecting your request today. I have already said that to you in committee. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Interestingly, it is only the ÖVP – and above all the colleague and energy speaker Karlheinz Kopf – that this eco electricity law is considered to be good. In the subcommittee, it was clear that the Greens, for similar reasons to ours, reject the Eco electricity Act, because it needs a fundamental change. That is, the eco electricity law needs to be fundamentally changed. The SPÖ also expressed this view, as I can remember. Mr Bauer said: We need to change the eco electricity law, but the time is the wrong one. – It is clear to me that the time is now wrong. One cannot promote the Vienna-Simmering power plant if one does not make a change now, but for a fundamental change – I also give it a right – the time is actually wrong, because every day we let go to address a fundamental change of this law is a lost day. [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] If I look at the behaviour of colleagues from SPÖ, I think of a statement by Karl Valentin, who once said: “May we already want to, but we must not have trusted ourselves.” [[Cheerfulness at the FPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] Mr Krainer, you mentioned that the Simmering gas power plant is one of the most efficient. – I give you the right to do so, but with an eco electricity law, nothing has been lost! We have one of the worst eco electricity laws in Europe. This is confirmed again and again in the near and far abroad. That's a clear case. And if you already believe that the eco electricity law should be fundamentally changed, then you would have had the opportunity to bring about a change with the Greens and the Freemans! That's what we'd like! It is clear that the amendment of the existing eco electricity law is a purely on-the-spot legislation. This is confirmed by many statements made by experts. In addition to this, two formal amendments are included so that the Federal Minister can also have them accordingly. – So there are two small formal changes. In principle, however, it is stunned and clear that this is an event law, and this is to be rejected in this House. I'll tell you: Parliamentaryism here in this House will suffer a great deal if, in the future, the ÖVP with the SPÖ decides on every occasion with a strong two-thirds majority of the legislative changes, just because there is an occasion. Should this be the living parliamentaryism in the House if you don't need us at all and the fact that something doesn't fit somewhere in a law is always taken as an opportunity to make a two-thirds majority change here? In this way, every novelle is enforceable. – I only say to this living parliamentaryism: No thanks! - No! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: You should have banned the coalition!]] I don't have to ban coalition. But you could think! Mr Minister, this is an eco electricity law that does absolutely nothing if it promotes gas power plants and promotes the continued burning of fossil raw materials. However, this eco electricity law is being promoted in millions to congratulate a mayor of Vienna and, in the meantime, SPÖ-ÖVP coalition friend. It can't be! I see black for the legislation in this House when laws are constantly amended from given occasions. That's a shame! That's not what we're standing for! For this we are not to have, and for this reason we will vehemently reject today's change.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13423	The next item is the report by Mr Kurt Eder. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13447	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Themessl, if you would like to emphasize the term 'initiation' here, I think you should know that there have been occasions in this House very often. [[Abg. May. Kogler: But there are always only bad occasions!]] Many years ago, when there were legal corrections on the basis of a number of occasions, this was also very often demanded by the Freedom Party or other political groups. If you are driving around so much that a gas power plant is to be promoted here, I say: It's white nonsense! It is not a gas power plant which is being promoted, but it is being promoted by means of district heating. All the energies that can be used – and this must be done quite simply in today’s situation – are promoted insofar as this is economically possible with district heating lines. If one does not promote these things, then the heat is not used and pumped into the air and then one has a very bad efficiency at all. That is why I think this thing is excellent in an agglomeration centre such as Vienna, where thousands and hundreds of thousands of people are now being supplied by district heating. We save ourselves oil kilns and coal kilns and thus many tons of emissions. If you do, it is not, as I mean, a fundamental question at all. In concrete terms, in the long negotiations on this law, which took place between all the political groups here in the House, it was always planned that district heating should also be promoted in the form of decoupling. However, there is an error in the letter of law, which is why this date is now corrected. I was present last Monday at an event in Ybbs, where a number of interested and active people involved in the whole alternative energy sector – representatives of wind energy, voltaics, hack-snitzel projects, Kleinwasserkraft et cetera – were present. When I heard the opinions, after about an hour of listening, I felt that it was not so much about the environment. Instead, I got the impression that everyone would like to have as much money as possible from any funding pots that are opened up somewhere; and the desire for the 500 million pot, which was not even established and which one does not even know how it should work, was already great there! If, like Mrs Lichtenecker, we are criticising the fact that this is just about putting money in one direction or another, then I would like to say that in this context we also need to talk about a certain degree of economic efficiency and efficiency. If you know that all these alternative energies – especially hacking, electricitying and similar techniques – could only be expected if the price for a tonne of crude oil was 120 or 130 dollars, and the difference between 60 dollars and the amount available on the world market today, then you have to consider how economically these alternatives are and whether you should not put more money into research to get more efficiency out of these alternative renewable energies than is the case at present. I believe that, without developing and promoting these technologies, as many people as possible wishing to make money in this area now want to be involved. The wind energy in particular was a typical example of the fact that the novelle would not have come. Of course, it is the wish of all investors in the wind energy to obtain, for 20 to 25 years as far as possible, a certain interest-rate share of the capital used, as far as possible, in a range of 12 to 13 percent. If this is shortened because it's just too much, then the big call and the big ecological debate are coming. I therefore believe that we should give our support to the motion put forward today by the honourable Member, for the sole reason that the OeMAG can repay its money. There was a constitutional court complaint in this regard, which has led to a formal correction. I do not think that we should give this the same support, but I would also like to say that we also need to take seriously and discuss the request made by the Greens here today. We too will continue to be ready for discussion on this subject. But I mean, you should look at and evaluate a law that is three months old a little longer, but then very probably talk about it again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13486	I now give the floor to Mr Magistrate. Kogler the word. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13513	Madam President. I would ask you not to let any states enter the committee. [[Abg. Murauer: There you did not leave us anyway!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm telling you about the ÖVP: If you drive and operate everywhere as you do in the “Eurofightery”, you could still talk about a proportionate success story here, with the exception of all the other taxes! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] Mr Kopf, on this point, You were really right for a moment! In fact, so much damage has not been done with this law as with what Mr Murauer has just awakened himself with his strange intercession. Let's go now... – One wants to prevent me from treating this issue seriously. [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mr Federal Minister, you really have a gft with the group! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the greens.]] You will also experience this in the Eurofighter Committee when we talk about counter-businesses. But there you have already passed the laugh three times, and you will be again tracking the millions of whom we have shown that you have let them be cut off by Eurofighter GmbH under the butt! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gahr.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] The economic competence of the ÖVP may really give rise to excitement. Nevertheless, this is a serious thing, because you can do it with your propaganda that you still have enough people on the glue. You also have to admit: You still have 35 percent, that is not to deny. [[Congratulations on Members of the Greens.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] We'll make an effort! If more people like Mr. Missethon are in the party headquarters, we will continue to get closer to each other. That's a nice move from you. We will work together from the Styria that next time we have 20 percent of the votes. Keep going, I'm encouraging you on this path! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: What does this have to do with the eco electricity?]] The Eco electricity Act has to do with this matter, as those groups that really want to change something – in terms of the global danger situation and the opportunities for action in Austria – this hypocrisy of your group has for a long time been worrying in economic and energy policy too! There are enough witnesses for that. This is a trademark of the ÖVP also in economic policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Head.]] Mr Kopf, this is exactly the same thing. – [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I didn't look at you anyway! This has nothing to do with the Grieskirchen brewery. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grandruck.]] – Mr Commissioner, come out! Bring your four-liner! The President has asked you to do so. They wanted to present a “uncharacteristic” four-liner. [[Abg. Großruck: I don't do that because I have character!]] Mr. Kopf! At least I'll tell you: Before you sing your praise for this success story, a sober look at the statistics would suffice: In 1997, the share of renewable energy in electricity conversion, generation and generation was much higher than in 2005. [[Abg. Head: And why?]] That alone would have to be thought of in a country in which hydropower from the outset has such a high share! But before that, close your eyes. That's you. They preach economic competence, but then they pursue an economic policy on the energy issue, which simply does not hold. So you have covered the problem, which they have then, together with the SPÖ, acquired with this event legislation regarding simmering. – I just grab a few single points out. Of course, combined heat and power is better than none, but the raw material you feed in is a fossil. You can't deny that! And this whole gas thing has a drama you don't want to recognize. Federal Minister! This begins with the completely overrated evaluation of the Nabucco project. It starts where you failed the last time. I am only excited how the colleagues will act by the Social Democrats in this attempt to merge with the OMV. It will now be used for large-scale projects to cut the excess money that is quite present in the energy industry. Okay! This is economically profitable. But we have long had to do with the fact that we are really using renewable energy sources and their domestic resources so far that the economic cycles are also closed in the financial sector. Every euro that is spent in this area is now better invested from the multiplier effect than when it goes into export. Explain to us where you have found the great gas sources in Austria and what should be renewable! They say – if you have said anything about it at all – that this has nothing to do with the eco electricity law. We think it has a lot to do with it. Mr Minister, if we are now to invest in a 800 MW plant in a gas power plant in Graz, where minimal combined heat and power is possible, because the waste heat produced there cannot be brought to the households at all, but is still being collected for this part, then we can see how absurd the whole thing is! At 800 MW gas, gas lines are needed across the countries everywhere. Do you know what you're doing with it? – This will destroy the opportunities for those who now want to invest privately in the households but also in the companies using renewable energy with the appropriate boiler technology! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] Mr Grillitsch, you can now quietly make and swirling yourself here, but: You know exactly which economic source the economy is in the Styria. [[Abg. Grill: The eco-energy!]] You're already putting it with it now! Don't always argue that double-bedded! – But I know: It's a speciality of you. One last: Obviously, there is no prelude to the EIA that market economy has something to do with cost-truth. Only then can this system bring reasonable results at all. To this end, we are essentially confessing together. The use of eco-electric energy provides an opportunity to correct blatant cost distortions. This applies, of course, to the instrument of eco-tax. However, since we do not have the latter, this is at least a useful instrument. But you press it to a level that is no longer worth the name! That's why this isn't a success story, and if it's ever been one, then now you're sending to kill this little partial success afterwards. This is not a special achievement, but corresponds to your philosophy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13681	The next item is the speech by Mr Schalle. You would like to have the watch set to 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13702	Madam President. Mr. Minister! I would like to make it clear that we will agree with the amendments made by Mr Kopf and Mr Eder. We from the BZÖ are very proud that, as then a government party, we have made a significant contribution to the state of the eco electricity law in its current form. It is also clear to us, however, that all textual formulations are likely to and will still have to be more precise texting. No one should be disadvantaged by inaccurate formulations. I come out of the economy myself and know that you have to rely on laws. Especially the Ecostrom Act, which is related to as delicate materials as climate change and climate protection, thus having a basic character, probably still needs many innovations. – We will only be available for further amendments to the law if they comply with the Kyoto objective. Our premise here is: Promoting renewable energy and reducing fossil fuels and energy. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, since the last campaign on television on climate change, people in this country have become particularly bright. The question is often raised to me: What will happen now? Unfortunately, Mr Pröll is not here today that I can ask him! – The Minister for Economic Affairs is not entirely responsible for this. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The Minister of Economic Affairs is here!]] [[Abg. Dr. Lichtenecker: The Minister of Economic Affairs has much more to do with it!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can't tell him anything, because what should I say about a thing that you haven't taken up at all, let alone, has been launched! Ladies and gentlemen of the government parties! Discussions on climate protection agents, the recommendation on conscience research, whether to take longer flights or not, and debates on whether or not to introduce kerosene taxation or to ensure that the EU receives a direct income are not measures within the meaning of environmental protection. In addition, the Minister has had enough time in the last 55 days to do something here. However, there is no binding objective regarding new energy. Federal Minister! Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European At the last meeting we met on 30 October. A motion for a resolution has been tabled by January and will show you a 20-point package for a life-worthy Austria in the sense of climate protection. I am not going to stop reading the 20 points to you, but I will show you how to implement goals and measures very easily. In Austria, there is no cross-border construction regulations that specify exactly what needs to be done in order to achieve the lowest possible CO2 emissions for new buildings and renovations. There are no federal uniform standards for thermal insulation, heating, solar energy or other renewable energy generation. Of course, this also includes a uniform system of funding. An additional effect of climate protection would also be an immense boosting such as the activity of installation companies in the construction industry and the like. Such a law would not only benefit private households, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. A very special concern is that this year we are raising the teaching of research and development to 3 per cent, and not only in 2010. That would create a lot of new jobs, very highly qualified ones! Mr Minister, something is particularly disturbing to me: Your way of buying emission certificates is to face our fullest distrust, because it is nowhere defined what use these money will find in each case. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wheeler.]] – Should it be as I hear it, then nuclear power plants will be promoted again, and I can only say: no thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13764	Mr Bartenstein has now spoken. Your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13785	Madam President. High house! I come very briefly to some comments from Mr Schalle. 3 percent R&D target is important. We will and will achieve this in 2010. However, it would be almost impossible to achieve this within a year. An increase of 2.4 to 3% would mean a plus of several billion €. This is not feasible either from the public sector or from the private sector. But in 2010 we will be among the top European riders in terms of research and development, as is the case today. I regard emissions trading as one of the most important innovations Europe has to offer. We are discussing an extension to airlines. Even more important would be an extension to the United States, China and other countries in this world, because this would result in a cost-truth in terms of CO2 emissions faster than usual. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This brings me to the issue, which primarily motivates us to do even more in the field of eco electricity than in the past, namely climate protection. This concern has top priority, and it is not right that Austria should not commit itself to binding goals! We use 20 percent renewable energy as a binding target at EU level by 2020. We ourselves already stand at around 23 percent today, and our internal goal, as set out in the Coalition Agreement, is already 45 percent. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Let's say to the eco electricity together, and let's say together that this is a success story! I'm at Karlheinz Kopf that this is an almost unique story of success. Mr Themessl, it is not true that this is one of the worst eco electricity laws in Europe! Rather, it is obviously one of the best, because we are currently around 8 per cent of total electricity generation with our eco electricity share, and this is in view of the fact that the European average is 4 to 4.5 per cent today, not bad, ladies and gentlemen. Our share is twice as high as the European cut. And if we calculate electricity generation from renewable energy sources, including hydropower, we are in Austria at 60 per cent or above, while the European average is 14 per cent, so we are about a factor 4 better than the European average. However, with regard to eco electricity, one must of course also deal with the question of what it makes as a contribution to the issue of CO2 reduction. I am dealing entirely with honourable Members Kogler, who have formulated that the market economy also has something to do with cost truth. That's right! Then we'll talk about it too! For example, we are talking about saving around three million tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions in Austria at the cost of about €300 million, i.e. € 100 per tonne. That's a value you at least have to think about! Without this aspect one cannot conduct the eco-current discussion. If Parliamentary head of €3 billion, which today is spent on green electricity on the basis of the old law as a whole, and speaks of a billion € in addition, one must also ask, my very dear Ladies and gentlemen: Who pays that? – That’s not some anonymous size! This does not take financial minister Molterer from an inexhaustible treasure, but it pays the electricity payers with a surcharge at the electricity price. This is part of the electricity price in Austria! Today we are – as has been said – at total costs of about €300 million or at costs of about €32 to €34 per household, and €32 to €34 per household eco electricity and other electricity is not little! Of course, this is an event legislation, and the occasion is a very obvious, namely a VfGH knowledge that forces us to act here – no more and no less. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are now trying to get heat from a gas power plant, I say: Let's leave the church in the village! Whether you do this under this title or another one, it is not as important as the fact that the issue of energy efficiency is of course a very priority. I am particularly concerned with the saved tones of CO2, and the combined heat and power from a gas power plant, of course, contributes to increasing energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If the regulation of occasions is critical by definition, I mean not only as an old minister, but also as a long-standing parliamentarian, that we should consider ourselves very carefully when we want to undergo a major innovation. Dear Kurt Eder! The novelles, the one with the other. In fact, last October came into force, was a big novel! I note that the honourable Members of the House will support a discussion very soon, by summer, and of course I will do what Parliament as a whole wants. But let us keep in mind that the current eco-stromnovel is only in force for about half a year and that the time span to gain experience is still very limited. We know that the counter-point fee, the question of small suppliers, and perhaps that one or the other more can be discussed. But it is also in the tradition Parliamentary legislation, which is based on large laws and their novels, and in this way the eco electricity law is truly large. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, I fully agree to progress along this path, with the proud awareness that Austria is absolutely exemplary within the European Union as regards the use of renewable energy sources in general and the use of renewable energy sources for the production of green electricity. In this respect, we are absolutely exemplary and will remain in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13857	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Hofer. You'd like to talk for 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13879	Estimated President! Mr. Federal Minister! We have heard today that renewable energy will not be used until the barrel of crude oil costs 120 US dollars. Now, however, we also need to know that the changeover to renewable energy and the use of renewable sources cannot, of course, go from today to tomorrow and that we are now in a phase in which we need to take money in order to drive the use of renewable energy sources forward. It is also undisputed that we cannot afford to abandon these renewable sources, because it will be more expensive in the future if we are in an energy dependence than when we start to take the necessary resources for the changeover. Once, a little more than half a century ago, a very large EIA politician said: “Austria is free!” We need to think about it: How free are we today? – Another foreign minister, Henry Kissinger, once meant: ‘Whoever controls the oil controls a country.’ If we had the problem today that Russia no longer wants to supply or can deliver gas, 60 percent of the households in Austria would be affected! This means, of course, that it makes sense to do everything possible to use the domestic renewable sources and resources, even for agriculture, because the farmer is becoming more and more an energy economy. I believe that this will be a huge opportunity for rural areas, an opportunity that can also bring more prosperity to rural areas. You know from studies that rural areas in particular are very affected by hidden poverty. We must all be grateful and happy when the farmer comes out of his dependence. Then: It is currently true that the farmer does not receive a fair price for his products and is highly dependent on subsidies. With the changeover to the energy sector, there are huge opportunities for agriculture in Austria, and we now have to consider what we can do in concrete terms to support this path. We believe that this eco electricity law is not a suitable means to bring Austria on the right path in the required time and with the necessary emphasis. It's supposed to be built in Simmering, that's all right, but we don't think it makes any sense to promote the consumption of fossil energy sources. [[Call the ÖVP: We don't do either!]] Because I think the companies make very good profits, especially those companies that use fossil energy sources. This is known to all of you. We have to consider: What can we do to continue along the right path? – It is a pity that wind power plants are no longer being built because they are no longer retiring. The Burgenland is lucky to be able to supply all private households with renewable energy through the wind power – theoretically, because one also needs a storage medium. That's a good thing! Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard today, too, that there is a need to invest more in the field of research and development for renewable energy. That's right! I therefore propose a resolution on Austria's exit from the EURATOM Treaty. We believe that these funds, which we invest in EURATOM, would be better lifted in Austria, namely in the field of research and development for renewable energy. The text of the decision reads as follows: "The Federal Government is invited to take all necessary steps to enable Austria's exit from the Euratom Treaty. The financial resources for Euratom shall be used to promote the use of renewable energy in Austria.’; Today we have heard from Klubobmann Dr. Cap that “we” – I don’t know who he meant by “we”, he probably meant Austria, not the SPÖ – have fought very much that Zwentendorf doesn’t go into operation. We can be proud that Austria did not operate a nuclear power plant. But we also need to know that we are importing more nuclear power today than Zwentendorf had ever produced. Ladies and gentlemen, also a proposal that has been tabled over the last few weeks, which is very interesting to me and which is also worthy of my support, is the proposal to set up a Federal Government Climate Change Commissioner. I know that there are very different opinions in this respect. However, I believe that the use of a disabled lawyer has ultimately retired for the disabled, because it is a matter that affects many areas. And I also believe that an independent expert as a climate protection officer would be very likely to be an essential support for the Federal Government and for the objectives of climate protection. The proposal came from the Federal Chancellor himself, so I assume that his group will also support this motion for a resolution. The text of the decision reads as follows: “The Federal Government is invited to use a recognised independent expert as an Austrian climate protection officer.” [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] I am seeking to support the SPÖ, its Chancellor, whose idea we have taken up here, in this demand. I would also like to say one thing because this is very important to me; this concerns the objectives of the Federal Government in the field of climate protection, eco-energy and renewable energy. The objectives are very high, also worth supporting, but there is no concrete way to achieve the goal in many areas. That is why I am also putting in place a motion for a resolution to set aside a few milestones on this path to achieving the goal. The request is very extensive, so I will refrain from reading it. It concerns concrete measures in the sense of climate protection and energy autonomy. This includes, for example, the commitment to thermal building renovation. Professor Van der Bellen said it already today: The year 2015 as a target for the implementation of the passive energy house standard in Austria is too little for us! Then: In reality, today we can create the changeover – in the case of new buildings, even in the case of renovations – by simply saying that we change the awarding guidelines in the field of housing development in such a way that only passive energy houses can be promoted in the case of new buildings – if it is technically possible, because there are conditions in the built-in area, in the centre, in which this is not possible – or that the installation of oil heating in a new building is no longer possible, since no housing promotion can then be granted. However, we also need the necessary financial resources, because a passive energy house is a bit more expensive – not much more expensive, but a little more expensive, 5 to 10 percent – and therefore it would be necessary to re-establish housing development. Residential funds are transferred from the federal government to the countries, and some countries use these funds to stop budget holes. The Burgenland – and there I am a affected person – uses parts of these funds to cover a damage from a bank scandal. We need this money for a thermal rehabilitation offensive, and it will ultimately also benefit the construction industry. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! I should like to ask you to support these requests and to inform you immediately that we will support the Green amendment. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e13950	The two short motions for resolutions have been properly tabled and are therefore fully supported and are therefore part of the negotiations. The long motion for a resolution has already been put forward in its broad outlines, is already copied and is being distributed at the same time; it is therefore also part of the negotiation. The three applications have the following general wording: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14168	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Schools. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14189	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Dear ladies in the High House! Dear gentlemen here in the High House! We are discussing in itself a very interesting matter, and I am almost surprised at how high the level of discussion is. - Sorry, I didn't mean Kogler. But otherwise it was really good. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: That would have me...!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] We have a subject to discuss today, which is something that we did not really want to get used to for a long time, namely questions of economic governance. It is simply about developing an industry that does not have a chance in free competition, because fossil energy sources are being offered too cheaply, because many costs are not even reflected in the price. Nevertheless, the OMV manages to make hearing profits with this non-sustainable, non-sustainable energy source – the best balance of all time! It was granted to them, to the pleasure of the shareholders, only, honestly: It would be nice if we could give operators their profits as much on the issue of bioenergy, eco-energy, wind and hydropower. We do not need to be annoyed at the fact that investors can also make money with it. Of course you have to learn from it! Of course, the first phase of the boom may have been a little too “boomy, ” and it was necessary to think about it and adjust the law. We've justified: ==References== ==References====External links== October has entered into force – and “unfortunately” the Viennans have not been able to expect and their gas power plant began to build a few weeks too early. This is what we have repaired today, simply because we are packed and packed. If it was then, then it must still be kept today whether we have joy with it or not; that is not a question of our sensitivity, but a question of our political sustainability. We have in the Eco electricity Act – as it is now true – some points that are already in need of reform and that need to be discussed. I would like to thank the Federal Minister for his willingness to discuss until summer. We will also draw points together. It turns out that we have quite open questions regarding the valorization of prices. Substrate costs are constantly changing. On the question of the counting point fee there are some definition questions. Questions of operational safety after expiry of the agreement are important. But in total, you have to say: The law is good, it fulfills its purpose, and above all it brings us well on in a sustainable energy sector. It's important that the time factor fits together, that we don't hide and that we don't delay it. It has to do the right thing at the right time. We are for the windwheels, yes, but also the question “Where?” must be discussed; we are for biomass, yes, but only with sustainable use; we are for hydropower, yes, but under ecologically sustainable criteria! That's why: We are in favour of a sustainable development of this legal matter. We should also proceed quickly to the discussion. ==References== May 2006 was the decision day; now would also be a good day to talk about how we want to continue. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14238	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. You too would like to speak for 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14259	Madam President. Mr. Minister! We all know how the energy field is determined: It's going on the one hand. on security of supply and on the other hand on supply ethics, which means that all people can have a share of energy and that by increasing number of alternatives from renewable energy, this is also ecologically safe in the long term. As I have now been quoted twice from the Committee meeting, I would like to add: Of course, I thought that a legislative adjustment should be distinguished from a necessary principle discussion. I have been very intensive about the question of energy – the results are also available in book form, with the first volume, as it were, more concerned with conventional energy and the second volume more on renewable energies. We have also published the results of the experts under the title “Energieautonomes Österreich – Utopia or Necessity”. We all know that we emit a lot of CO2: at least 93 million tons. If the Federal Minister refers to a reduction of 3 million tonnes, I must say: This reduction should be recognized. But we must achieve a reduction of about 70 million tonnes by 2012! This means that enormous extra effort must be made in relation to what is currently taking place. But you should not make yourself worse than you are: Austria is a leader in renewable energy! This is completely undisputed, so we want to continue to stand on a solid ground in the light of this fact and expand it rapidly. I also believe that the period of liberalisation is behind us and is now a strategy for the future. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we know that we can also achieve greater autonomy by building decentralised supply systems with a different mix of energy. It cannot bring success to a single energy source! That is why I am convinced that in this discussion we can only win, and everyone can win, especially the Austrians. We know that in the first place the increase in energy efficiency still stands, which is a key word. With regard to this energy efficiency, which is expected to increase by at least 20 percent, I believe we have a large reserve, as experts even think that up to 40 percent is possible. Equally important are energy saving – with a potential of 8 to 12 percent – and the expansion of renewable energies, which are absolutely necessary in view of long-term security. Ladies and gentlemen, Austria stands on a good soil when it comes to renewable energy, which is to be further developed. The Austrians accept the alternative energy to a very high degree and strive for a better energy mix. That is why I personally believe that an essential contribution to this problem will come, for example, from the Energy and Climate Fund, which we will at least make available to 500 million over the next four years, Minister of State. If we do, I am convinced that many technologies will be developed that will lead to marketable products and that will ensure long-term energy security. In this sense, we are in a good way.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14319	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. You too would like to speak for 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14343	Madam President. Federal Minister! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen in the House! In fact, all the facts, data and arguments about this eco electricity law have already been exchanged. I would just like to sum up and repeat some facts in a short time. We all know the history: ==References== In October 2006, the Constitutional Court found a corresponding authorisation of the non-wisdom collegial authorities, such as e-control, to be unconstitutional. In order to avoid legal uncertainty, we have then come to this legislative adjustment, which we decide today. I would like to point out that the facts are really talking about the fact that this is a very successful eco electricity law in Austria. We reached the target of around 4 percent in 2002 and have now achieved 8 percent. We have already spent a total of 3 billion – and 1 billion – on funding volumes. It is also true that the share of renewable energy in electricity generation is more than 60 percent. With this, we have a high value, which is hardly yet available in the world. Ladies and gentlemen! It is also to be said – as the Federal Minister has already said – that this costs a lot of money, namely 4 billion in grants. In the end, this must also be borne by the consumer. We know that a budget in the monthly accounts has a little more than €30 to cover. We also know that we – internationally compared – have to assume a very high price of electricity for our economy, industry and companies, and we have to take away these, of course, corresponding distortions of competition. Therefore, with these 70 million additional funding, the cover was absolutely and urgently necessary. I think Austria is on the best track with this innovation.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14383	The next one on the list of speakers is Mr Muchich. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14404	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! High house! As already heard several times today, the amendment of the Ecostrom Act takes place for legal reasons, on the basis of an opposition from the Constitutional Court. The fact and important thing, ladies and gentlemen, is that this correction does not reduce or reduce the importance of renewable energies and thus also of eco electricity in a country such as Austria. On the contrary: The intensive discussion on climate protection calls for science and, above all, our policies alike to make efforts for the future, with the promotion of the best possible coordination with the economic perspectives. Austria is a leader in the production of green electricity in Europe, which is very positive, on the one hand, by the intensive use of hydropower and on the other hand by the abandonment of nuclear energy. This means that our country has the right and also the duty to drive forward the further expansion of renewable energy and thus of the eco electricity in the European environment. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that very important for all of us is a clear commitment to nuclear energy, a clear commitment to the unappropriate use of housing funds – unfortunately, there are many federal states that are currently using housing funds differently – instead a clear commitment to the establishment and use of housing funds for an eco-social housing policy. There is really a great need for action here. Moreover, it is important to make a clear commitment to the expansion of renewable energies and thus – in conclusion – a clear commitment to increasing the share of renewable energy sources in electricity generation in our Austria. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14444	The next item is the speech by Mr Marizzi. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14465	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Right after that: Of course, we confess – as always – against the nuclear current, and we confess to organic energy generation. We have an early but still a very good law. Of course, the indicators are constantly changing, especially now in the course of the entire climate debate, but one must also say that we have an event regulation here today because the VfGH judgment has fallen. Of course, we also acknowledge the need to promote district heating. In Austria we have about 641 wind turbines, 166 biomass plants, 315 biogas plants and 3 417 photovoltaic plants. It has already been mentioned that we are leading and very well positioned in Europe with this eco electricity legislation, and we can also be proud of it. I believe that energy generation from green electricity is of great importance in Austria and is also an example for Europe. If I look at tomorrow's balance sheet, and because Mr Hofer said it was out of wind energy, I have to say: No, there will even be 200 windwheels, also 250 biogas plants and 35 biomass plants. However, it must also be said that the acceptance of the wind turbines is probably at last: You can't build a wind power station in every place. In addition, you also need to know – and the energy experts know – that for each wind power plant you have to set up either a caloric or another power plant. Summa summarum can be said: The previous 3 billion support for environmental energy and 1 billion for the future is an important step. Of course, in future, due to the framework conditions we now have – energy scarcity, energy consumption, CO2 emissions and everything that has already been said today – we need to reconsider the matter. But we like to adopt this law today because it is necessary. - Thank you many times.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14498	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Trunk. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14520	Madam President. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) As has already been pointed out several times, this innovation is also a repair measure. From my point of view, it's all- This is a very necessary repair measure, to which the entire SPÖ Group acknowledges itself. But if we look at today's agenda, then it will be obvious that we have three repair cases in all the novels. I think that a new federal government, including a new coalition and a new National Council, has the task and must face the challenge of respecting new quality standards in the adoption and drafting of laws. In any event, we should be less vulnerable to repair in the future. I place openness and willingness not only at SPÖ, but also in other political groups to ask themselves new discussions – and, as Mr Bauer said, there are also fundamental discussions on this issue. Federal Minister! I do not need to remind you, but I think that we are one of the issues of environmental protection, climate change and environmental safety, and that this should also be a key issue for your future work, because you are Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, and both have to do with climate change and human rights. We know you're also a minister of tourism. In future cooperation, I expect that we will devote ourselves to the issues of climate change very offensively and very solution-oriented for a good future not only to the economy but also to Austrian tourism.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14559	As the last speaker, Mr Riepl spoke. Voluntary time limit 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14580	Madam President. Federal Minister! I think we agree that security of supply of electricity in Austria is important. This includes electricity generation, but also electricity transport. Why I'm going into electricity transport in our country, you'll notice right away. Ladies and gentlemen! We have a high- and high-voltage network that has a bottleneck. We have too much electricity in the north and too little in the south, and we do not have the sufficient capacities we would need to ensure a balanced consumption and a supply. The problem is that the increased expansion of wind power and biomass production is still aggravating the problem. I am not talking about expansion now, but I am just pointing out that in the north we have a total of 1,200 megawatts of wind power and biomass production, in the south only 200 megawatts. In other words, where we need electricity, we have less of it, and where we have too much, we actually do not need it enough. The 380 kilovolt line is not a ring, but it should be a ring. We have gaps in Styria and Salzburg, and that is really the problem. It's actually a lucky thing nothing's happened yet. We have experienced today how helpless one is when the electricity goes out. I look at Mr. Head and Lord Middle-ledged to: What would we do if we suddenly stood in the industry without electricity, even if it lasted only one hour or two, or possibly even longer? – It would be a disaster for everyone involved. I am not talking about the budget and other areas at all. Thanks to the employees and technicians of the electrical supply companies, it has not yet come to God's thanks. Power transport, I mean, can never be a gambling. We're on our way. The environmental impact assessments that exist, for example, in the Styria market, now fill 2,000 folders with paper. It is already 38 months that it will be examined there; normally all of this should take – this is the case in the Environmental Impact Assessment Act – 15 months. So there is a need for action here, I think. If we do not want political negligence to arise, we should and should be accelerated here. I think in the course of the forthcoming discussions on the budget and on other occasions too, Mr Federal Minister – that is also the request and request to you and to the ÖVP – we will have to deal with the issue of security of supply within the meaning of the transport capacities of our power lines. I would ask you anyway. Unfortunately, there is no longer any time for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14626	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the draft law, title and receipt in 35 of the supplements. Since the present draft law contains constitutional provisions, I first put it within the meaning of § 82 para. 2 C 1 of the Rules of Procedure, the presence of the constitutional number of Members required for the vote. I now ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this bill to give a positive signal. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly define the two-thirds majority required by constitution. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, also give their approval to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – This is accepted by the majority. I also expressly note here the constitutionally required two-thirds majority. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Dr Ruperta Lichtenecker, colleagues on an effective new Austrian climate strategy. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Strache, fellow Members, on the exit from Austria from the EURATOM Treaty. I would also like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who wish to give him the approval to give a sign in this regard. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. Mr Hofer, ladies and gentlemen, on the establishment of a climate protection officer. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Ing. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority. That's why it's rejected. [[22:00:43]] 6. Point Report by the Committee on Consumer Protection on Amendment 115/A(E) by Mr Mag. Johann Maier, Johann Rädler, Bettina Hradecsni, Harald Vilimsky, Ursula Haubner, colleagues on “Measures package against Internet crime as well as against unscrupulous and illegal Internet services” (30 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14766	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Maier. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14793	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I can quote from a current press release: “Because of the systematic error of Internet customers, two businessmen from Essen and Solingen have been responsible for the Essener Landgericht since Friday. The Procuratorate accuses them of sending false virus warnings and then deceiving the unsuspecting consignees to the dialect installation. When the process was completed, the internet connection was made via expensive 0190 numbers. Your profit is expected to amount to just under € 2 million. For example, following investigations by the prosecutor, the following text appeared on the computer screens of Internet customers: ‘Controlling message. Attention! Your computer may be infected by a virus.’ An internet address was then mentioned, on which the supposed problem could be solved. If the dialer was finally installed, costs of €1.89 per minute were incurred immediately.” [[President Mag. Prammer is taking over the presidency again.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This is an aspect of Internet crime. I am therefore very glad that we have succeeded in deciding on a five-party request for this problem in the Consumer Protection Committee, which we will decide in plenary today. This request is a concrete part of the Government Convention and a whole package of measures is required, because a ministry alone cannot solve these problems. We have already agreed with our coalition partner that in the autumn of this year we – and we have done so in the Consumer Protection Committee – want to hold a large parliamentary survey on “Internet crime and necessary measures” here in this House. It is crucial that all the ministries involved in this problem should be involved, including the Federal Chancellery as well as the The Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and, of course, the Ministry of Consumer Protection. This is not only a matter of criminal law, but also of civil law issues, of the e-commerce law or of the distance selling law. But it's also about competition rules. It is a question of maintaining fairer competition on the Internet at national and international level and dealing with the Internet-debt towards consumers, but also with companies with appropriate clarity. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The growth rate in the area of Internet crime is estimated to be around 9 percent per year. The damage potential of identity theft alone was estimated at more than $6 billion in the US in 2006. The FBI estimates the damage caused by computer crime in the U.S. business sector at 67 billion dollars a year. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! We need national and international action, and I am pleased and pleased that the first meeting of the Consumer Protection Committee has succeeded in deciding on this central issue of the information society a five-party application. I would like to thank all the political groups for this constructive cooperation and the joint agreement on this request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14845	The next item is the speech by Mr Rädler. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14866	Madam President. Federal Minister! Right in time for tomorrow’s women’s day, the tomorrow edition of the “Press” states that women are the smarter internet users. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Muttons.]] That's a good news. But 54 percent of users are still men on the Internet! My previous speaker has already referred to today's five-party request. In this context, of course, I should like to express my pleasure at the fact that a consumer protection committee has been set up in this Federal Government. That was a long-standing demand. Before the National Council elections in cooperation with the Chamber of Labour, we decided on a list of demands in a position paper aimed at setting up a Consumer Protection Committee in the next legislative period. On Internet crime, it should be noted that this is an industry with negative growth: In this area, an increase in the number of cases is recorded by 10 per cent per year. The complaints to the Ombudsman have more than doubled over the last three years. At the Chamber of Labour alone, around 2,000 complaints are filed each year in all service sectors. The spectrum of criminal operations ranges from child pornography to so-called phishing, in which it is not permissible to pass data on and then to situations, in view of which we simply have to act. 381 cases with a total damage of about € 1 million have been in place until now throughout Austria. We must act at European level. There is a 2005 Framework Decision calling on the Member States to take the necessary measures. to take action and to establish cooperation with Interpol and Europol at European level in order to closely monitor these operations. On the basis of an initiative by the Minister of Interior, Liese Prokop, who died too early, the Federal Ministry of the Interior has already done the preparatory work for the establishment of a platform, and a common procedure has been agreed on at interministerial level between the Ministry of Justice and all other ministers employed. First of all, we want to put in place measures in the field of training and in many other areas in order to stop all these criminal activities. Coming to the end, I'm allowed to hold on: The Consumer Protection Committee is a parliamentary body in which we are able not only to present to the general public but also to fight against those things that are unacceptable to our around 8 million consumers. With this in mind, I should like to ask you, after the five parties have agreed on this request, to comply with this request as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14923	The next item is Mrs Hradecsni's speech. Requested time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e14945	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! Just quick to correct: My name reads very complicated, but it simply speaks out, “Radeshni”. Thank you. The modern communication society offers unprecedented opportunities and opportunities to come quickly and unbureaucratically to information, knowledge, as well as entertainment. Another advantage is the handling of online transactions, whether in the form of online banking or online shopping, and more and more it is possible to complete public roads around the clock. These are advantages that we all certainly don't want to miss anymore! We know, however, that these benefits also have a significant disadvantage or a significant danger. On the one hand, we must distinguish between fraudulent machinations to which Internet users may be victims, and the active use of the Internet for one of the most cruel and repulsive forms of all crimes, namely the child pornography, which has increased to an unprecedented extent by the anonymity of the World Wide web. – On the other hand, the most efficient international cooperation must be a decisive step towards success such as the one achieved a few weeks ago. In the area of Internet fraud, it is important for the time being, through public debate and wide information, to raise the awareness of users and to ensure that preventive measures are put in place and that every user protects his PC from attacks as best as possible. However, in order to protect itself against Internet crime or even against unscrupulous providers, there is a need for considerable time and cost. – Internet security software such as firewalls, anti-spy and anti-virus instruments or spam filters must be purchased first and then constantly updated. There are international databases that keep black sheep on their lists. On the one hand, the provider can already switch on a spam filter based on the listed lists, on the other hand, there is also the possibility to use a black-and-white list enter yourself, which emails are passed through on your own PC and which are not. Unfortunately, there is no 100% protection against spamming, and this also has the disadvantage that you no longer receive desired information. Especially fatal is the so-called phishing, with which bank customers, while reflecting false facts, generate important information up to exactly the same looking homepages and are then misused. Here, too, it is important to inform by passing on and publishing general guidelines and to prevent light faith – and also less credulously due to the refinement of fraud – from transmitting data. Currently, the digital signature alone offers the best protection against phishing. The digital signature is a complex encryption system that ensures the unchangeability of data up to the legal obligation and the replacement of its own signature in order to provide consumers with the greatest possible protection in the management of their online business. The legal bases for the protection of consumers provide the EU-wide and nationally valid distance selling and e-commerce directive, and we also see the need – as decided in the Committee – to evaluate them and to develop a comprehensive package of measures that should also prevent the loss of profits, i.e. the possibility of access to the profits that have been reaped from the crimes. Similarly, it is essential to have a novel of the Competition Act by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, with which the Consumer Information Association is equated with other bodies entitled to the Association's action and according to which the right to omission can be asserted in the cases of §§ 1, 2, 6a, 9a and 9c. Since it can be very easy to violate data protection in the field of prevention or detection of cyber-crime and we are concerned about compliance with fundamental rights, we also demand the addition of the arge data to this urgently needed project.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15006	The next item is the speech by Mr Vilimsky. The desired speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15027	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, I would like to say that it is good that we have set up a parliamentary consumer protection committee at our level. – We live in a time of globalisation and liberalisation. Free movement of goods is no longer a pure keyword, but it has become a reality today, and it is therefore necessary to counteract abuses at Austrian level with effective consumer protection provisions. The previous government has left a lot in this arrogance. It is all the better that an attempt is now being made with a new federal government – especially in a committee where party policy is not in the foreground – to launch measures that can provide an increased level of security for Austrian citizens and consumers. One area that is particularly important is that of digital security. However, before I go into digital security, I would like to refer, if the President permits me, to a submission to my person, who is completely away from reality: It is a statement by Mr ÖVP-Mandatar Ferry Maier, whom I do not see here now and which I do not know about, of which I only know that he said about the ÖVP that this is the party in which philosophy “holds goshes, folds hands”. Mr Maier said that I was in the City Hall-SPÖ's soldier. He claimed that I had a 75 percent work obligation with the Town Hall SPÖ. – It is absurd to claim something like that! The fact is: I have a service contract with the city of Vienna and I am assigned to the city hall club to the extent of 25 percent, which I also fulfil. The taxpayer does not grow up any cost, that is simply a refund of our club. – And I am against it when politics is being made here in plenary with such miserable efforts! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: What does this have to do with consumer protection?]] But this is also a moral image of your party, your philosophy and also your political abilities! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Write this into your parent book and stop running an mistaken policy with your misconceptions, with data that are subject to confidentiality! [[Congratulations at the FPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, here are just a few headlines: ‘Increasing Internet crime to a rapid extent’. ‘The attacks are becoming increasingly refined’. ‘Million fraud with illegal auto-dials’. “A significant increase in Internet crime.” ‘Unscrupulous attacks spy out confidential data.’ ‘Modular code: Threat to the modular principle’. “The EU announces the fight to Web-Ganovies”. ‘Warning in front of phishers’. And so on and so on. Each of us is familiar with different forms of Internet crime. However, this also entails an obligation not only at European level, but also at Austrian level, to try to combat, on the one hand, legal measures and, on the other hand, to protect the local consumer public with information campaigns to the best possible extent. I would like, after a lot of previous speakers have already said on the issue of Internet crime, to put something on the tape, which I believe is not to be attributed to the classical cases of Internet crime, but in its impact comes close to it. There is already a very intense discussion about this not only in Austria, but also in Europe and throughout the Western world. What's this about? . We now have an operating system with Microsoft Vista, which already has so many holes in its terms of license use and so much communication in an illicit way that you cannot simply go to the agenda. For example, I can quote item 7 of the EULA Final User Treaty: “The user agrees that Vista regularly connects to Microsoft without even informing the user in individual cases.” It is also important to agree with the use of Windows Vista that potentially unwanted software is removed from the computer without any demand, and that it is also possible that the company in Redmond – i.e. Microsoft – can access data and programs without the knowledge of the respective user. This means that, for example, in the case of a doctor, a program he has installed can be stopped because Microsoft may not like it. Or, even worse, medically sensitive material and patient data could be made available to the public at once, as it should never be. We discussed this in committee: As an Austrian, one cannot, of course, take measures from today to tomorrow against a monopolist and giant like Microsoft that really work, but at least at the Austrian level, the Minister of Consumer Protection can try to inform the population of what is possible here. One could try to explore on a legal basis what possibilities there are to prevent this flow of data from becoming possible in Austria. All of this concerns us and will have much more to do in the future. The Consumer Protection Committee is an appropriate body that will be discussed once. I would also like to pay tribute to the chairman, who is dealing with the matter with a lot of objectivity and elan. I am looking forward to the discussions in the Committee, and I am pleased that today a five-party request will be approved. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15088	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15109	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! About the new medium internet there are a lot of positive news, but also negative news, as we have just heard. The number and also the importance of the new media is constantly increasing, and they are increasingly affecting our general everyday lives. Internet crime has arisen with the development of the Internet, otherwise it would not have been possible. Today, the purchase of all products can be processed from the pharmaceutical product to the car via the Internet. This, of course, poses certain risks: You look through the purchases that are communicated, buy and pay, and the disillusionment often comes when there are delays in delivery or when you have paid and suddenly no seller is there. It can happen that the seller has suddenly disappeared. Then there's trouble. It is pointed out that one must complain in private law. This applies not only to end-users but also to businesses. This criminality must be laid down in the craftsmanship. We must work on it and take measures to stop it. The so-called e-commerce is subject to constant, rapid growth. With the help of Internet access, numerous banking operations can also be handled, for which it has always been necessary to appear personally at the respective money institution on the spot, and it was of course not always easy for workers to be there at the switch times. Online banking is generally a real relief in everyday life. With all the advantages, however, online banking also carries a lot of risks. Thus Phishing repeatedly tries to spy out passwords and codes from consumers, or attempts to get sensitive data from consumers with Trojans. This has already happened to acquaintances of mine. The phenomenon of phishing is very often treated as a mere technical security problem, while the communication perspective is completely out of focus. But phishing is possible precisely because online banking is not seen as an overall process. The responsibility for many processes is inadmissibly shifted over to consumers by certain monetary institutions. When I was in charge of consumer protection as State Secretary, I commissioned a study. The Austrian Society for Data Protection, which was established at a scientific level, was commissioned by the Austrian Society for Data Protection, how online banking works practically, where shortcomings are to be located, and which improvements in this area will be possible and desirable in the future. With about three million accounts, online banking is the most successful e-commerce service so far. The offers were analysed by 19 money institutions selected as copies. Ten technically different systems developed and operated by seven different companies were taken into account. In addition to examining the security-related aspects, contract terms of online banking have also been reviewed. In addition to the lack of transparency, consumers are also seriously affected by partly worrying exclusions of liability, which had to be identified here. Thus, some banks are trying to shoulder the responsibility for faults of Internet service operators entirely on customers. The results of this study In my opinion, findings should also be used in order to increase our attention to the general terms and conditions of the money institutions for online banking in the future. We are called on to take measures also to remove these existing non-transparent or disadvantageous clauses. [[BZÖ's condolences.]] However, I also believe that, if there is already a five-party request, we really have a unanimous opinion here in the National Council and set a corresponding deadline. I think that implementation must be possible by the end of 2007. That is why I make the following request. [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you to agree to this request, because then we also have a time horizon so that we can bring this to a rapid end by the end of 2007.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15211	The amendment tabled just now by Mr Dolinschek has been properly tabled and is also under negotiation. Next is Mrs Anita Flecklam's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15243	Madam President. Minister! High house! A five-party request that was made at the first Consumer Protection Committee meeting is a beautiful signal and also highlights the importance of the Consumer Protection Committee. But this is not only a beautiful and very important signal for the citizens. Rather, the demand for a package of measures to combat Internet crime shows us how different consumers from consumers today and tomorrow yesterday. We have also seen in this committee that there is really a lot of work. There will be a lot to do. To be a consumer today is no longer to march to the dealer, to choose a product, to pay it and to go home again. Being consumers today also means cyberspace, logins, mouse click and anonymity on both sides. The consumer of today takes the business world directly into his living room. This can be practical, but it also poses dangers, especially for our youth, but not only for them. The youth, who has a positive association with the new media, threatens to slip easily into the fraud trap by mouse click. Free offers such as driving licence tests, life prognosis or ancestral research, which quickly appear as a cost trap, or those logins where the age indication “over 18” is made much too easy: Ruck, zuck is a fourteen-year-old businessman these days! Or concealing costs. All these are typical traps for young people – but not only for them, and I would like to stress that – whose curiosity is shamelessly exploited. The imagination of the tricks is not limited. You know the sentence “I can’t do this” for sure; I claim that no one is in the cyberspace. Education of consciousness, information, cooperation with schools are urgently needed. Let me illustrate an example. Students of an AHS in my district, with better knowledge of their teachers, were alerted to draw information from a site called “Brother Schmidtlein”. Login alone resulted in an invoice of 85 €, then reminders, claims of a collection office and finally threats of a lawyer were sent to the households of these young people. Unsecure parents, insecure students – and yet the teachers have said they do not have to respond to this letter, although the complaints on the subject of Brother Schmidtlein have already stacked on the desks of the Chamber of Workers. You see, information is not only necessary for students, but also for adults, teachers and teachers. In this context, cooperation between the Chamber of Labour and consumer protection institutions and schools would be urgently needed. The world is getting smaller, the dangers to users are getting bigger and bigger. In the interests of consumers, I am delighted with this new committee, in order to protect our citizens, but above all our youth. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15289	Mrs Steibl is now speaking. Requested time: also 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15311	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The focus now is on a package of measures against inter- Net-crime and against unscrupulous, illegal services on the Internet, a network that is constantly in motion, constantly changing, admittedly also much facilitated. But what is a special concern to me – and I really want to underline it as the subject of consumer protection – is the so brilliant combination of violence and media. The Internet offers, I almost want to say, endless ways to use itself. I would just like to point out: For example, “beautiful tremors”, “happy slapping”, is just a problematic keyword. Mr. Federal Minister! The more I was surprised that this dangerous area was treated in the committee in such a way that it said: It belongs rather in the family sector, in the competence of the family. – It is, of course, part of the responsibility of the family sector, including the competence of the protection of young people, but it is still the subject of consumer protection! Because this is what I believe is about a protection function that needs to be handled from all sides and in all areas. I also think that our boys need to be protected from videos that show violent attacks and download them from the Internet – for example, on the mobile phone that every youth has – and that this can not only be done with the protection of young people. I believe that the Consumer Protection Committee is now a decisive step forward, which will provide a platform for negotiation and development. But it will be decisive how we deal with these new problems in the New Media and how we deal with violence in these media. I would ask you, Minister, to address this issue together with the Minister of Family and Youth.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15362	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15383	Madam President. High house! I have followed this discussion with interest because I have already seen in the Consumer Protection Committee the commitment and expertise of the discussion there. I am speaking now, less in order to make a general statement on the question of your request – because this has actually been very comprehensively explained here – but because the last speaker has raised a subject that I have already been able to relativize in the Consumer Protection Committee. Obviously, my argument has not arrived clearly with you; I like to repeat it. When it comes to videos of violence or violence, movies, iPods or podcasts, I think it is called, to be critical of mobile phones or videos, then, Mrs Colleague, you are at the wrong address at the Minister of Consumer Protection! For this, there is a special standard in the Youth Protection Act, and for the Youth Protection Act, the Basic Law has been in the Federal Government since 1. Ms Kdolsky, Federal Minister. But I would like – if the direct path is difficult – to pass on this request to them that they take care of this concern. In the execution – you will know this as a national servant – the offices of the state government and the corresponding state councils and councillors are responsible. [[Abg. Steibl: But you already know that youth protection laws are national laws?]] [[Abg. Steibl:... no common Federal Youth Protection Act!]] I can also pass that on. But it would be more reasonable if you were to look for the direct way, Mrs Colleague. [[Abg. Steibl: Excuse me, what are you doing?]] It is so – I would like to tell you once again from the government bank – that: Youth protection as a special matter goes against general matter consumer protection! [[Abg. Steibl: Do you want to clean up on this important topic?]] That's just the way it is. I was also responsible for the protection of young people in Salzburg, since I accepted these questions. [[Abg. Steibl: So you don't know...!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Mrs Colleague, you should perhaps consider this before you react emotionally, and accept it, work it up and then perhaps implement it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] However, I would like to take the opportunity to point out here in Parliament that the question is really... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Do you want to go out again? – I hear You're so bad otherwise, Mrs. Colleague. [[Abg. May. Hakl: Are you also responsible for consumer protection...?]] [[Abg. Murauer: You said that you too in Salzburg...!]] [[Abg. Steibl: Because you say you're not responsible for it, and you probably know that this is a state law!]] [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: Sign up for a word!]] [[Further calls.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Mrs Colleague, there are nine national law on the protection of young people, and there is a member of the federal government. [[Calls and calls between the Abg. Heinisch-Hosek and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This is Mrs. Federal Minister Kdolsky, who, if there are shortcomings at the national level, can stop that which can enter into discussions here, which can, in any case, also make a legal offense. – But I would like to do it for you, Mrs Colleague, to pass it on if here is the longer way for you to be better than the shorter way. But, please, I may, perhaps, be of interest to you, that in the field of Internet crime, the relevant activities are also distributed to different ministries – the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice – that the Federal Chancellery has a coordination competence and that, of course, the Minister of Consumer Protection also has its functions here, in particular in showing, in stimulating, in informing, in providing information. I can inform you, Mrs Colleague, that we are currently working closely with the Internet Ombudsman, whom we are also promoting from the Ministry of Consumer Protection, and that we are also setting up activities in the field of school teaching materials. Know One You may be – otherwise I call it –: ‘First think, then click.’ That's a good motto, I think. There are also activities of the Ministry of Consumer Protection in the area of the EU Telecoms Directive, and we are trying to extend the right of withdrawal of consumers to make better use of them. A particularly important initiative – Mrs Colleague, you could support this – is being carried out within the framework of the UWG by the Federal Minister for Economic Affairs and Labour, with whom I was able to speak briefly here on the government bank and avant that there is a possibility for the UWG to be able to take advantage of profits. A colleague from the Greens did so too. A particular feature of this Internet crime is that the widespread dissemination of the Internet in a relatively short period of time makes it possible to use a lot of small amounts of money, but in the mass of large amounts, which, according to the current legal situation, with omission, cannot be reversed in the form of a profit-making process of these unfair profits. That would be something where you could put together your energies, your emotions, Mrs Colleague, for a good initiative. [[Abg. Steibl: Minister!]] [[Abg. Rädler: It's women's day!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] We from the Ministry of Consumer Protection constantly support association complaints by the VKI and by other institutions. Internet crime is a major challenge that we all need in order to be able to meet successfully. The Ministry of Consumer Protection, together with the initiatives of the Consumer Protection Committee, will assume its responsibility and contribute to this. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15622	Next, Mr Keck. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15643	Madam President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We have a premiere today: We are dealing with a proposal that comes from a committee which has been newly installed in the history of Parliament for the first time in order to treat and protect the interests of consumers, which we - and I believe you too - consider very important. Ladies and gentlemen! The purchasing behaviour of our population has changed, the purchases on the Internet have increased dramatically. Unfortunately, fraud has also increased in this area, by exactly 12 percent in 2005. What do these scams look like, ladies and gentlemen? Don't you know the numerous popups that promise the blue from the sky on many websites? – competitions in which cars, houses and long-distance travel are delivered; and, more recently, it is even offered to calculate life expectancy or determine the intelligence quotes. Ladies and gentlemen, who does not like to quickly calculate his life expectancy! The personal data to be entered there are also very quickly entered, and the indication that the service costs something is often only found in the seventh annex or on the long website below – if there is any indication at all. There is the specific case of a Graz student who shows that it is still different. Seemly free samples from the Internet prove to be 80 € expensive pleasure for him, which would have been expensive even to almost 160 € by collecting costs! The fact that this is not a so-called mickey amount, ladies and gentlemen, shows a simple bill: If only 1,000 people come across the previously outlined fraud with the free samples, these Gauners generate 80 000 € or, in old currency, more than 1 million schilling! Ladies and gentlemen! We need to do something, we also need to protect our children. Even now, our children are already active on the Internet to a very high degree. 81 percent of children between the sixth and thirteen years of age are computer users, and even 67 percent of the six to seven years of age have computer experience. If you then know that one fifth of all households in which these children are have an internet connection and have more than half of the Six to Thirteen years of online experience, you can see how big the need for action is here. This five-party application, which is presented today, serves to protect people, it serves to protect children from the dangers of the Internet. It is not only necessary, but we are also sending a political signal to consumers. And we are sending a political signal against these fraudsters so that they can learn that we want to take action against these measures!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15686	The next speaker is Mrs Hellerer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15707	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! We have experienced a consumer committee and already the first meeting, we also have a committee chairman, who has led this first committee with great commitment and great competence. There was great agreement and, above all, a look into the future, which was about us wanting to take up the issues in a more relevant way. In fact, this has given us great confidence that there is a committee that really works in the sense of consumer protection. I am all the more disappointed now, Mr Federal Minister, about your reply or better your response to my colleague's contribution to the debate. We also agreed in the Committee that consumer issues are not cross-cutting issues in the sense of simply assigning them to the ministries, but that consumer protection should have a central role in the Minister for Consumer Protection and, of course, should also be addressed by the Minister for Consumer Protection. They have now offered us nothing on the subject of consumer protection at all. That is why I must also say that your part has been inappropriate here in this Parliament today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am also – and would like to mention this at this point – very glad that the protection of young people falls into the competence of the Federal Minister Kdolsky. However, we are confident that, in the interests of consumer protection, it will continue to work well in the Consumer Protection Committee, and I believe that this is also in the interests of all the members of this Committee. Today, however, we are dealing with a very interesting issue, the Internet crime, and we know that all Internet users are also exposed to these attacks over the Internet. There are now 60 percent of the total population who are online serving these services. This trend is on the rise, since broadband technology is now also developing the white spots in rural areas. Of course, it is important that all people have access to this modern technology. But we must also be aware that there is a huge potential for danger here. Many aspects of these dangers have already been identified. We also need to draw the people's attention to the danger of dangers that may not be recognized, but that can cause enormous problems, particularly among young people and children. It is about putting a good information campaign on the feet to raise awareness of the problem among the population. But it is also important to us that all the ministries affected by it work together here and that, of course, this problem – just as it is in the five- The request for parties is formulated at the European level. The aim is to address this in order to contribute, in particular, to an international agreement to combat Internet crime. It is an excellent request made here, in terms of protection for our children, for our young people, for consumers, but also for the economy.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15767	The next item is Mrs Ablinger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15789	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Rädler, you were probably so self-critical about tomorrow's women's day as regards the use of the Internet by men. But let me say as a woman, maybe as a little gift for tomorrow: Hope dies last. And be hopeful in the sense of the male population: Men are also able to use the Internet intelligently. [[Demonstrativ accompaniment of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – That’s just ahead; but now to the really serious part, to this five-party request. The Internet is probably also an example of this: Markets have globalized, but policy is probably not yet the same. To this end, this five-party proposal is a very ambitious response to a very ambitious response to a common decision, a joint call for action here nationally, but above all Europeanally, and to respond to it. A recent survey in the UK, conducted by Get Safe Online, says – and I felt that it was very surprising – that 16 percent of British people are afraid of burglary, but 21 percent are afraid of becoming victims of Internet crime. That is, I think, a clear call for action here. Policy must become active, policy must come to the aid of people in this respect, and in this sense we must fulfil the obligation. One more thought: The Internet does not invent crime in the sense, but what is reflected on the Internet is also reflected in the real world, whether it is theft, exorbitant, right-wing extremism, fraud. There is also in the real world. The only difference is probably that it goes faster on the Internet and is more hidden that it is more difficult to prevent it, and that in politics you probably always feel that you are in the back. You have to react to this in order to have a law that you no longer feel like you're in the back. – It's already starting to shine, I have to cheat. In this sense, Mr Federal Minister, we ask you to present an effective package of measures on this matter. [[Abg. Steibl: He's not responsible!]] To one more point: We must also... [[Abg. Steibl: Mrs. Kdolsky is in charge! The Minister is responsible!]] I should like to comment on this, Mrs Steibl, even though he can certainly defend himself. [[Abg. Steibl:... the Minister does not agree!]] But the point is as far as happy sleeping is concerned; let me give you an example. If someone on the Internet sells flights that don't really exist – we know that – then someone isn't hurt if he doesn't. As far as happy sleeping is concerned, this is the crucial point: Something's happened, someone's already become a victim! [[Abg. Steibl: But it was downloaded!]] This means that there is something else in this context. This is really a question of protecting young people, and that is why, perhaps, I come to the last point I would like to make – in school, I am dealing with the sensible, intelligible, educational-conscious way of dealing with the Internet. That's why it's about installing consumer education in school. I'd say it's a difference whether I'm going to be victims of phishing or victims of happy sleeping. In so far as the call to anchor consumer education in the sense of prevention is concerned: That is what we expect from this template. Mr Minister, we put great hopes in the presentation, and I have justified hope that you will not disappoint us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15883	Mrs Fuhrmann's next speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15905	Madam President. Federal Minister! High house! I'm going to give my predecessor the following: Of course, the Internet does not invent crime. Rather, the Internet is a platform on which it has been shown in recent times that unscrupulous and illegal offers are not only offered but, of course, by this way also very quickly their spread, so that it can even come to the practice of crimes and it is used to do so. I would like to address a part of it, which is a topic for children in particular. I believe that in terms of Internet crime, child pornography in particular is a very dramatic case, which is not only objectionable, but also has to be countered by the legislator. I believe that this form of crime, i.e. child pornography, is not only directed against the most defenseless members of our society, but that we are all the more commissioned to support children, these defenseless members of our society, in the best possible way. I believe that the fight against child pornography must therefore be clearly given priority. In my opinion, the goal must be to strengthen child protection in the context and definitely to announce the fight for child pornography. In this context, I also recall the biggest case so far, that early February God was able to reveal the spread of child pornography in Austria. Whoever it takes – and it is high time to do so – is to initiate cross-border networking. Specialists must be networked across borders. I believe it is not possible, without international police cooperation, to come to the perpetrators on the Internet. - That's the one point. The second point – he has already been addressed several times today – is the so-called dubious internet services. I think it is a great danger for young people in particular that unscrupulous and unlawful providers of young people through seemingly interesting offers of downloads, free ringings or other things that have already been mentioned today offer an incentive to act there, and in the end it turns out that this is a tactic It's a cost trap. I believe, especially under the cover or in view of the fact that youth debt is a topic in Austria, information needs to be specifically put in place here. It is gratifying to note that, in the thematic context, all the parties are drawing on a line here. Our objective must be to limit the spread of this form of crime as quickly as possible and also to provide protection on the Internet.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15950	The next speaker is Mr Voller. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e15971	Madam President. Mr. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Justice Chapter of the current government programme sets out measures to combat Internet crime to protect the population, but also the domestic economy. This will also strengthen the fight against new forms of crime, such as attacks on information and communication systems. I am therefore pleased that all Members of the Consumer Protection Committee, who have already put this issue at the top of the agenda at its first meeting, have recognised the priority to take action in this area across parties. Due to the anonymity, but also the possibilities of the global network, a new market for criminal, but also unfair, machinations has been created. Every Internet user is now confronted with a mass of spam emails that promise you almost everything there is to promise. With so-called winnings, tests, vouchers and so on, some make a good deal. The users of the Internet are increasingly being visited by so-called phishing emails, which are only looking for account numbers or passwords and are thus increasingly damaging the users of this media. Meanwhile, the newspapers, but also the Internet, are full of reports on fraud that are taking place at this level. The cases dealt with by the Austrian Internet Ombudsman almost doubled from 2004 to 2005, and in 2006 it was already in the first five months more cases than in 2005 as a whole. After using various offers, users often received enough invoices and post from the collection offices. The lack of information or the often opaque and non-comprehensible information on various websites often helps to get into the trap. In another area, an interesting article from the magazine “Spiegel” dated 11 is related. January 2007, which deals with the new Microsoft operating system Windows Vista. There is the question of the cooperation of the US intelligence service NSA in the preparation and development of the new programme. Officially, the intelligence service has cooperated in improving security systems, but there are enough reports that speak of US intelligence services having a non-insignificant interest in accessing databases of private individuals, but also businesses. These and similar practices add €12 billion to the economy in Europe, estimated at €12 billion annually. In the interests of the people, MEPs have become active and are trying to counter this. Today's decision and its implementation in a forthcoming comprehensive package of measures is a major step towards even more consumer-friendlyness and will also create legal certainty here. In the interests of consumers, I thank you for your approval.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16017	Next, Mr Hofinger. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16038	Madam President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Maybe just a short time because I'm here for the first time: My name is Höfinger, Madam President, not Hofinger. I know it's just two lines, but when you vote, everyone wants these two lines, so I want them too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] It's about Internet crime today. There's no question: Yes, new opportunities have also been opened up on the Internet to deal with criminal activities and to deal with some serious business. It is a large, colorful virtual world available to us today, and the lures are very large. Moreover, there is also anonymity, both on the user's side and on the side of the provider of goods or services that may be evil with it. And really, if you're going somewhere, no one is, whether you're a simple user, for example, who wants to make someone happy with a greeting card and then pay a very expensive price for it, or if you're getting money or goods on the Internet and then you have to notice that someone in between has got involved. There can really be many ways to get rid of unsuspecting people. If someone just makes a little cross or a wrong click out of curiosity, it's already caught him! And the sad thing about this is that there is currently no legal possibility of withdrawing from a purchase, as is common for door sales, within a certain period of time. We also need to create a legal framework for this. I fully endorse the arguments put forward by my previous speakers. You have raised a lot, and I am very glad that this request has come to a five-party agreement. On this occasion, I would like to point out that we have put this request in the Consumer Protection Committee, and I do not want to miss out on reminding ourselves that we also need to think about how we can protect consumers, so that we also need to look at the preventive side. In other words, we must also focus on the fact that the consumer is informed and informed so that he can avoid a lot of things by himself in the future. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I have already mentioned this: It is today my first speech here in the first Chamber of the House. And I do not want to leave the speaker's desk without showing this first Chamber my respect for the history of this House and for those who have worked in this House. These have accompanied our country through difficult and most difficult times and have led out of rubble and ashes to lasting peace, freedom and prosperity. We can be proud today that we can move safely through this country and that our young people are training. This is the first time that we have been able to find opportunities in this country with which they can optimally prepare and develop for the future in order to take on top positions all over the world. We can be proud of living in a country by finding an intact environment and a well-kept landscape. For us, it is natural to turn up the tap and drink a glass of clear, clean water. We live in a country that is maintained from Lake Neusiedler to Lake Constance and up to the highest alpine regions, because people have been committed to idealism and selflessness for decades to the fact that this country is really like a well-kept garden. We can be proud that there are many people in this country who are fulfilling their professional obligations with diligence and commitment, so that this country is leading in many sectors of industry around the world. Many of these people are also willing in their spare time to use their talents and abilities in various associations and organizations, thus making an essential contribution to our daily life, whether in rescue services, in sports or cultural associations or in associations for the maintenance of tradition and customs. They contribute to the fact that this country is not only worthy of life but also kind. I would like to stress here that I will do everything I can to ensure that this prosperity will be preserved and, in the coming years, will be safeguarded and further developed so that we can give this beautiful country of Austria to our children and to the next generation fully packed with innovation ideas and future prospects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16102	Next, Mr Spindelberger. 2 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16124	I would like to say that even if some do not want to be true: There is a Federal Ministry Act in which it is precisely regulated which members of the Federal Government have which tasks. After this seems to have not yet come through to some ÖVP delegates, I suggest: Perhaps make a clause in which this is explained! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Federal Minister, I have listened very carefully to your remarks, and I am glad that you have recognized the brilliance of this subject concerning the unsavory, illegal Internet services. You have not only recognized this, but with your offensive “For nothing there is nothing” you have also contributed to working on solutions in the future so that consumers have better protection. Because of the fact that this matter, which requires legal implementation, burns us so much under the nails, it is also the fact that more and more consumers are getting into these countless Internet traps. We all know this: If you turn on the computer, you will find a lot of supposed free offers. One is told that one can, for example, be one of the big winners and send free text messages. In fact, a few weeks later, we are confronted with huge bills. It is also important for us to do something quickly, because, as Mr Rädler said, not 2 000 consumers a year come to the Chamber of Labour, but to There are 2,000 people each month seeking advice and assistance from the Chamber of Labour in such cases. This means that consumers need more rights, but they also need more protection, and it is difficult to deal with this matter as a whole, since the Internet does not belong to anyone and is not controlled and controlled by anyone. Therefore, a perpetrator can commit an unlimited number of crimes from many states or, in fact, from every point of the earth, and according to the information available to me, we are dealing with 7.5 million perpetrators. Therefore, we need to implement this proposal quickly in order to allow consumers to have a right of withdrawal and, as a whole, better enforcement of the law and to contribute to putting an end to criminal activities on the Internet at all.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16175	Mrs Grander is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16196	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speakers have already identified many issues in this context. I would like to address briefly the last speaker: The number of cases dealt with by the Ombudsman regarding the Austrian Internet was 750 at the beginning of 2004. In the following year it rose to 1,460, and by the end of May 2006 it was already over 1,900 cases. – The Internet Ombudsman strives to be an independent consultative and consultative body. He gives tips for safe online shopping and develops quality standards for safe e-commerce. It will help to improve consumer protection on the Internet and thereby increase confidence in e-commerce. It was mentioned that there are up to 2,000 complaints in this context in the consumer protection advice of the Chamber of Workers in Austria in the month. These also concern our internet providers, and some websites are called very unclean. I would like to mention the fight against unrelated and illegal offers in addition to this package of measures relating to Internet crime. In addition to clear legal regulations, there must also be appropriate information measures for all age and population groups. This has already been mentioned. At the primary school in Rum for young people in the fourth class, the project “self-conscious in life” is now under way. I believe that something similar could be done in the area of the Internet for all ages, so that people, young people and adults, can learn, be responsible, and also in terms of their own protection and protection of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16230	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16251	Madam President. Federal Minister! My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! We have already heard today that the frauds on the Internet are increasing enormously. Frauders, Abzockers and Scharlatans have free access to the network, and therefore it is so important that the newly created Consumer Protection Committee accepts this problem. And anyone who knows our chairman Jacky Maier knows that this committee will be a little bit further! [[Complaints and bravors at SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Internet crime has therefore become more widespread because the purchasing behaviour of consumers has changed considerably in recent years. 24 hours, i.e. around the clock, goods and services of all kinds are offered, and more and more people also use these offers. In this area, however, a new kind of crime has also been established, and it develops literally on a daily basis. Frauders and Gauners have always been very inventive. Today, some practices have already been specified in a specific way. This criminal drift belongs to a bar advanced. I am glad that this five-party request has been made, and I am convinced that if all the parties – and in much of the statements of the coalition partner were confirmed – stand behind it, then this problem can really be solved.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16293	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 30 of the Supplements. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Dolinschek, Mr Hizu, have tabled an additional request. I shall first vote on this resolution and then on the resolution attached to the Committee's report. We are therefore voting on the supplementary amendment tabled by Mr Dolinschek, colleagues. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give him the consent to give a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 30 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously accepted. (E 11.) [[23:13:15]] 7. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues in the Federal Law amending the Plant Protection Act (77/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16367	We're on the 7th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Johann Maier. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16402	Madam President. High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! This proposal, which amends the Plant Protection Act, seeks to solve a problem of indirect federal administration. We are faced with the problem that, at the federal level, individual Federal ministers are responsible for the subject matter, but do not at all get any information about the form in which federal laws are implemented at national level. Therefore, in the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, as already in force, there is the possibility that the Federal Minister responsible for Food Affairs may take a remedy if a UVS takes a notice with which she does not agree. However, until the LMSVG entered into force, it was in any case in the situation that the competent Federal Ministers responsible for a matter law did not receive any relevant information. With the LMSVG, it is now possible that both the head of state on the one hand and the competent Federal Minister on the other hand can take legal action. In the plant protection sector, we do not have such a regulation. I would like to refer to the debate during the last legislative period when it was about finding out where 53 tonnes of plant protection products have disappeared in the Styria region. I remember: There were notifications, but these were withdrawn by the UVS in Styria, and Mr. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll didn't know about it. It was agreed by me in December on this development, and at that time the idea was also born to provide for a corresponding analog regulation in the Plant Protection Act. This gives the head of state the opportunity to intervene, and there is also Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. If it does not agree with the decision, take the opportunity to appeal against a UVS knowledge. This arrangement, ladies and gentlemen, would be our legal concern. I would ask you to discuss these questions very openly!
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16432	The next item is the friend of the honourable Member. Desirable time: 2 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out that the EIA still has an overall 8 minute residence period. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16454	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! In the present application, SPÖ encourages the amendment of the Plant Protection Act. I would like to predict that no one in Austria needs to worry about the safety and quality of food. No farmer uses unnecessary plant protection products. Unfortunately, they are necessary for the fruit to thrive and grow into a quality food. The Austrian Food and Food Safety Agency (ARGES) is very closely examining plant protection products prior to authorisation. They shall not have an immediate or indirect adverse effect on human and animal health or groundwater. However, I would particularly like to stress that this is an essential point for me that our farmers are responsibly dealing with plant protection products. There must be no improper use or storage. Infringements will be severely punished anyway. 80 per cent of our farmers are in the same position. the environmental programme under which only limited fertilisers and plant protection products may be used, and these restrictions are also strictly controlled. Our farmers are in strong competition and are dependent on producing high-quality and flawless products. With the present request, the SPÖ is now proposing to introduce a reporting obligation on the completion or outcome of criminal proceedings on the grounds of infringements of the Plant Protection Products Act against the head of state and the competent Federal Minister. Furthermore, the head of state should be given the opportunity to lodge a complaint with the Administrative Court against decisions of the independent administrative Senate of the countries. The main motivation is to eliminate information deficits – Mr Maier has explained this before – vis-à-vis the head of state and the Federal Minister. If the heads of state want to have this, you can of course talk about it. However, we must be careful not to put unnecessary red tape back on the agenda. We from the ÖVP are in favour of a allocation to the Committee on Agriculture, where this request will be discussed in detail. It is important for us that farmers have the framework conditions to be able to work close to the environment and economically. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16502	The next item is Mr Pirklhuber. 5 minutes welcome; 10 minutes total rest period. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16523	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! In short, Mr Maier's own-initiative proposal: Clearly, this is a necessary harmonisation to ensure that the Plant Protection Act regulates the information requirements as already set out in the Food and Consumer Protection Act. That's a real process. However, Mr Maier, I would like to say: There are a number of other shortcomings in the Plant Protection Act. We have already explained this here in the house on the occasion of the then pesticides scandal in Styria. I refer to some of these points: The period of persecution according to the Plant Protection Act § 34 para. 2 is one year. – This too is still a major problem, because it simply takes a long time for certain offences to be investigated accordingly. The ads due to illegal in-transport transfer are currently costing €390 in accordance with the fees regulations of the Federal Food Safety Office. Although the penal framework is larger, it is just over €14 000, but it has never been exhausted. Also, the control of pesticides in Austria has not been sufficiently regulated and harmonised, with regard to the independence of control, the indirect federal administration, the control of trade imports and the in-trafficking of direct imports. In particular, experts who represent companies – I have at least learned from them – say that when a farmer is directly imported, he can do everything that is allowed in the EU, regardless of what can be applied in Austria. – When it's hard on it, here's the covenant on the shorter branch. That's the statement of lawyers. There is also an urgent need for action, apart from the fact that all pesticides from Holland and Germany are currently authorised as the only country in the European Union. This has led to the threefold increase in the number of pesticides available here between 2000 and 2005: In 2000 it was still 800 pesticides, now it is about 2,500 plant protection products that can be used in Austria. – As said: There's a need for action. Mr Maier, the Government Convention states that SPÖ is in favour of EU-wide authorisation of operating resources. – This too is extremely worrying, especially from the point of view of the fact that different climatic conditions are found in the application and that it is necessary to take this into account and, of course, the conditions of authorisation should also apply to regional circumstances. Moreover, in the Government Convention, you do not set any target term on how these resources are to be authorised uniformly in Europe, e.g. in accordance with the precautionary principle, or that particularly harmful means are removed from the list of approved funds. Mr Maier, in general, I would like to say something that is important to me in this context: In the context of rural development, which is currently being negotiated with the Commission in Brussels, it is also a problem that there is no efficient pesticides reduction plan in Austria. That too would be a very central concern, which I would like to put on the tapet on this occasion. We will discuss your request in detail in the Committee and submit our proposals until then. This is a command of the hour: If we really want to move forward here, we need an efficient pesticides reduction plan, which at the same time must also be combined with a correspondingly stringent plant protection legislation. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16579	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Klement. You have enough rest time. The desired speaking time is 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16600	Estimated President! In advance, a question to the applicants: Are you sure that with the proposed amendment you mean the Federal Law No. 110/2005? In my opinion, this is a regulation by the Financial Markets Supervisory Authority on the subject matter of insurance. So I ask colleagues Maier & Co. to check if they have really used the right documents! With regard to the argument put forward by former Minister for Agriculture Molterer in 2005 in the statement on the amendment of agricultural law, I would like to make a few comments: It is about Molterer saying at the time that this new law must liberalise the Austrian market and we must speed up the authorisation of plant protection products from EU countries. In order to calm down the critics, he said at the time that the law ensures that the high Austrian standards were maintained. At the same time, it would be possible to import plant protection products from Germany, where there are comparable standards, and the scheme for other countries concerns only those countries with which Austria has bilateral agreements. This is not the case: We can clearly read from this Plant Protection Act that a plant protection product already authorised in another Member State is also permitted in Austria, and there is no word for bilateral relations to be a prerequisite for it. . So we note that this law alone had the intention to boost the market for plant protection products and to achieve the high standards of Austrian testing procedures with one blow. So if we are discussing amendments to this Plant Protection Act, we should take this as an opportunity to review at the same time the purely economic considerations of the Minister at that time and to consider a reorientation of Austrian agriculture towards the greening of Austrian agriculture. That is very important! We know that 90 percent of agricultural support is currently granted without binding on environmental standards, and this usually means: We are promoting industrial agriculture! In comparison with other EU countries, however, Austria is particularly aware of the fact that we have a high number of organic farms and, above all, small structures, and it is important not only to preserve these structures but also to expand them. A reasonable legislation on plant protection products should also take account of the need to afford the massive use of plant protection products and thus also inhibit them. This could also contribute to a certain cost-effectiveness in the production of agricultural products and thus to the construction of a more just market. If I speak of cost-truth, I mean the many negative effects of the use of plant protection products at all, for example, the contamination of groundwater and the associated cost-intensive rehabilitation measures, long-term environmental effects, the health hazards of farmers who produce these products, the health hazards of the citizens who seek recovery in nature, but are covered by toxic clouds of plant protection products. We know that 40 percent of fruit and vegetables are so contaminated by plant protection products that their enjoyment leads to allergies and various cancer rates are due in particular to them. In other words, we should check whether we do not also bring these points in this amendment of the Plant Protection Act in order to achieve a long-term improvement with a view to ecologizing agriculture. I would now like to take a brief look at an interesting point which I noticed in the Plant Protection Act concerning protected areas in European countries. – This phytosanitary law states: A protected area is an area situated in the European Community, where, on the basis of favourable ecological conditions, there is a risk of the settlement of certain harmful organisms, although these organisms are neither endemic nor established in the European Community. Let us now look at the definition of harmful organisms: This means any species, strains, biotypes of plants, animals or pathogens capable of damaging plants or plant products. My question: What else are genetically modified organisms with terminator genes that are most at risk of growing endemic cultures? – I also take from the fact that the existing Austrian legislation is good and is already opposed to green genetic engineering. The Freedom Party therefore submits the following request:
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16658	Mr President, it is not possible to put forward a motion for a resolution at first reading.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16674	Then I take note of this formal error! We'll do this on the next occasion. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16701	The next item is the speech by Mr Dolinschek. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16722	Madam President. Mr. Klubobmann! High house! In the short term, I would like to say: The Plant Protection Act does not provide for any reporting obligation on the completion or outcome of criminal proceedings vis-à-vis a head of state and the competent Federal Minister. The head of state also has no opportunity to lodge a complaint with the Administrative Court against decisions of the Independent Administrative Senate of the Länder. Thus, the Federal Minister responsible for plant protection products is not at all informed of the nature of the execution of the plant protection product law within the framework of the direct federal administration, namely the way in which the administrative penalties are carried out. Nor does it have the possibility to take an appeal against it, contrary to the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. In order to eliminate this information deficit, I believe that we should deal with this request in the committee responsible and also carry it out. I can get a lot of money from the request.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16753	The next item is Mrs Hradecsni's speech. – I hope I finally made your name right. Requested time: 3 minutes; the total rest time of your club is 6 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16774	Yeah, thank you, that was perfect with my name. – As my colleague Wolfgang Pirklhuber has already said, we welcome the harmonisation of the plant protection legislation with the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, but unfortunately it is too short in our view. In fact, it is more important to strengthen the precautionary mechanisms as well, and in particular, § 12 para. Delete 10 of the Plant Protection Products Act – as required by us already in the last legislative period – without replacement. Most of the Dutch and German plant protection products or active substances were not authorised in Austria before the said paragraph entered into force or only under other provisions of application. In the interests of consumers, it is important for us to minimise the burden of pesticides, rather than in recent years... [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Pesticides! Or do you have anything to do with it? – You don’t need to hide behind your laptop now. Pesticides of my knowledge, right? – For us In the interests of consumers, it is important to keep the load of pesticides as low as possible rather than to further liberalise plant protection products in recent years. Although it is too short, we are nevertheless quite positive about this proposal and will discuss it accordingly in the Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16819	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with the motion for a resolution 77/A to the Committee on Agriculture and Forestry. The agenda is exhausted. [[23:32:50]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2007-03-07-023-XXIII-NRSITZ-00014_d8e16853	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 119/A to 161/A have been tabled. Questions 461/J to 494/J have also been raised. Finally, a question by Mr Josef Bucher, ladies and gentlemen, has been put to the President of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council on business communications and allocations will be convened at 23:34 a.m., which is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
